-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Super Smash Bros. Brawl
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/supersmashbros/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Relatively lag-free online multiplayer.
 The ability to share game replays, screenshots, and custom levels with friends.
 A massive yet surprisingly balanced character roster.
 Tons of ways to customize your matches.
 A lengthy single-player adventure mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some of the platforming stages in Subspace Emissary could have been done without.
 Custom levels can't be used in online matches.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  7, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.5
Critic Score: 9.3, 76 Review (s)
User Score: 9.4, 19,075 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Game Arts
Genre: 3D Fighting
Date: Mar 9, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
With a bigger roster than ever, online multiplayer, and the ability to share screenshots, custom 
 levels, and game replays with friends, Super Smash Bros. has never been better. 

  It's hard to believe, but it's been nine years since the original Super Smash Bros. brought some 
 of the most iconic Nintendo characters together for frantic battles, and roughly seven years since 
 its sequel Super Smash Bros. Melee was released. Perhaps even harder still to believe -- and a testament 
 to the series' popularity and longevity -- is that these games are still being played religiously 
 to this day. But no matter whether you're a diehard Smash Bros. fanatic or a neophyte brawler, 
 you'll be pleased to know that Super Smash Bros. Brawl includes a plethora of impressive characters, 
 features, and game modes, and is more accessible and fun than ever before.  

  For the uninitiated, Smash Bros. is a multiplayer-centric series of fast-paced 2D fighting games 
 that features a cast of characters from all over the Nintendo universe. If you've ever found yourself 
 arguing with a friend about whether or not Mario could beat Link in a one-on-one match, Brawl is 
 the game that will let you settle the issue once and for all (the answer of course is that Kirby 
 would eat them both) . Characters such as Ike from Fire Emblem, Meta Knight from Kirby, Fox McCloud 
 from Star Fox, Lucas from the unreleased-in-the-US Mother 3 (Earthbound 2) , Pikachu from Pokmon, 
 and many more are all on the roster in Brawl, boosting its size up to an impressive 35 total characters -- 14 
 of which are hidden and must be unlocked. For the first time, the list of guests includes third-party, 
 non-Nintendo characters such as Solid Snake and Sonic the Hedgehog, and all of them bring their 
 own signature fighting styles and moves to the game.  

           The roster is bigger than ever before and includes some surprising new additions.     

  Smash Bros. has always been one of the most accessible fighting games on the market because of 
 the simplicity of its controls, and Brawl is no different. There are essentially only two attack 
 buttons (one for normal attacks and one for special moves) , and depending on which way you tilt 
 your control stick when you hit them, they can produce a variety of effects that include the titular 
 "smash" attacks. In the interests of user friendliness, Brawl offers four possible control schemes, 
 which ensures that everyone can play whichever way they like; Wii Remote and Nunchuck, Wii Remote 
 alone, Classic Controller, and GameCube Controller are all equally represented. Each of these methods 
 are equally viable, and fans of Brawl's predecessor will be happy to know that the GameCube controls 
 remain unchanged.  

  Combat includes up to four players brawling on video game-themed stages. The goal is to knock your 
 enemies out of the arena with one of the aforementioned smash attacks. The amount of damage each 
 character has sustained is measured in a percentage, and the higher this percentage is, the farther 
 he or she flies when hit. Battles are fast-paced, frenetic, fun, and often outrageous orgies of 
 chaos, which makes Brawl a perfect party game. But just because the game's mechanics are so simplified 
 compared to traditional fighters doesn't mean that there isn't a lot of depth to be found for those 
 willing to invest the time.  

  All of the characters have their own strengths and weaknesses, and learning how to protect yourself 
 while taking advantage of your opponents' flaws goes a long way toward securing a victory. There 
 can be a surprising amount of strategy involved, from knowing when and how to attack to ensuring 
 that the terrain of the sometimes over-the-top levels works for you rather than against you. But 
 all that said, Brawl is an incredibly well-balanced game in which even a brand-new player can come 
 away the victor against a hardened veteran.  

  Throughout combat, various types of items will spawn on the battlefield for use by the first player 
 to reach them. Some, such as the beam sword, are offensive in nature and augment your attack capabilities, 
 whereas others are restorative and will lower your damage meter. Many of these items are from the 
 various games the characters originate from, such as the fire flower and the super mushroom from 
 Super Mario Bros. Although a lot of them have been featured in the previous Smash Bros. games, 
 many new ones appear in Brawl, including the superspicy curry, which makes your character breathe 
 fire for a time. Also worthy of a mention are the various assist trophies, which summon non-playable 
 characters such as Tingle from The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker or the 8-bit racers from Excitebike 
 to help or hinder you. Some things -- especially the hammer, bob-omb, and warp star -- could be considered 
 game-breaking due to their abilities to inflict fatal wounds nearly all of the time, but these 
 items and any others can be toggled off in the options menu before a match begins.  

           Metal Gear?! It can't be!      

  In fact, customizable is the name of the game, given 
 that a wide variety of parameters can be adjusted when participating in the special brawl mode. 
 Gravity, fighter size, and game speed are just a few of the options, with some of the more outlandish 
 possibilities being whether or not your characters are made of metal (which makes them much heavier 
 and thus harder to KO) or are virtually invisible. Both special brawl matches and regular battles 
 let you customize which items are allowed and how often items will spawn, what kinds of handicaps -- if 
 any -- are in place, how stages are selected, and more.  

  Teams can be created if you so desire, and the types of brawls that can be started include timed 
 matches in which the one who scores the most kills and the least deaths wins, stock matches in 
 which the last player standing wins, and coin-collecting matches in which the number of coins everyone 
 has when time is up determines the winner. Tournaments are a snap to set up due to a built-in mode 
 that facilitates up to 32 players on a single Wii, and there's even a rotation mode to help up 
 to 16 players figure out how to take turns. In short, there are literally dozens of ways that you 
 can battle in your living room.     

  However, that's not to say that all your matches have to be held in your home with your friends 
 at hand. For the first time in the series, Brawl lets you play matches online. If you're interested 
 only in a quick match, you can join a standard or team-based game with anyone and the game will 
 attempt to find you three competitors. Each person will select his or her character and stage of 
 preference, and while you're waiting you'll be tossed into a practice room alone to warm up. Once 
 everyone's settled, one of the requested stages will be chosen at random and the brawl will get 
 underway.  

  For more control over your matches, you'll have to connect to friends via the dreaded friend codes. 
 Despite their annoyance, friend codes unlock a lot of otherwise unavailable options. Friend matches 
 let you customize an online match the same way you would a local one, and they even open up a couple 
 more game types. As an added bonus, you'll be able to add in extra local players, which isn't the 
 case when playing with strangers. Lag has always been an issue with online games -- and especially 
 fighters -- but of all the battles we participated in, only one of them suffered from any major lag, 
 and most of them ran so smoothly that we wouldn't be able to tell that it was an online match if 
 we didn't already know.  

           In the Subspace Emissary, characters like Diddy Kong can show off their moves in glorious 
 cutscenes like this.      

  Competitive battles and cooperative missions aren't the only things to do with your friends in 
 Brawl. Whenever you finish a multiplayer match that lasted less than three minutes, you can save 
 a full replay of the battle for playback later, and at almost any time in the game or during these 
 replays, you can pause and position your camera to take the perfect screenshot. Then, using the 
 WiiConnect24 service, you can send these replays and screenshots to anyone on your friends list 
 to show off.  

  Even though Brawl includes a multitude of fun and unique battlefields in which your matches can 
 take place, in the event that you find yourself wanting more, it also offers a custom stage-editor 
 tool so you can make your own from scratch. Using a simple interface, you can specify a size, background 
 picture, and theme song to go along with your masterpiece. Then it's just a matter of selecting 
 which of the premade terrain parts and platforms you want to lay out, and afterward you save the 
 level. This tool works surprisingly well, and though your creations unfortunately can't be used 
 in online matches, you can share them with your friends via WiiConnect24 just as you would a screenshot. 

  Though Brawl is primarily a multiplayer game, that doesn't mean it isn't without single-player 
 challenges. Classic mode runs your character of choice through a variety of sequential battles 
 as well as two bonus stages before pitting you against the sinister Master Hand, the mysterious 
 disembodied hand that has appeared in every previous game in the series. Each time you play through 
 classic mode, the rounds will change subtly, so you'll never go through the same version twice. 
 Event mode is a series of individual challenges that force you to complete specific objectives 
 to win. Training mode lets you hone your smash skills against opponents whose behaviors you can 
 customize. In stadium mode, you can race against the clock to destroy targets in an obstacle course, 
 try to score a distance record in a home-run contest, or face off against an army of enemies in 
 the multiman brawl.  

  However, the main attraction in single-player is the adventure mode known as the subspace emissary. 
 This is a retooled version of the adventure mode from Super Smash Bros. Melee that features a single 
 story in which all of the characters in the game join together in an epic battle against a mysterious 
 enemy. Subspace emissary follows the exploits of the various characters as they interact with each 
 other, and is typically divided up into a number of loose story threads that eventually weave together; 
 in one level, you may play as Donkey Kong and Diddy Kong, and in the next you may be Lucas and 
 the Pokmon Trainer. Between each level, you're treated with very high-quality and frequently hilarious 
 cutscenes that further advance the story (and in typical Nintendo style, they are entirely dialogue-free) . 

  The subspace emissary consists almost entirely of side-scrolling platforming levels that are filled 
 with the usual bottomless pits, moving platforms, and enemies, and each one is designed to resemble 
 some of the games that the characters are from. For instance, Donkey Kong's early levels are reminiscent 
 of Donkey Kong Country, launcher barrels and all. These platforming levels are for the most part 
 well designed and fun to play, but there are some -- in particular the automatically scrolling ones -- that 
 the game could have done without, and there are some characters that just don't seem to handle 
 platforming as well as others. Overall, though, the Subspace Emissary is an entertaining new experience 
 for Smash Bros. and a full game in its own right, given that it will last you between eight and 
 10 hours. To sweeten the deal even more, Subspace Emissary, and in fact all of the single-player 
 game types with the exception of the training and classic modes, can also be played with a friend 
 cooperatively.  

           Four-player brawls are as fun and chaotic as ever.      

  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is easily one of the most impressive-looking games on the Nintendo Wii, 
 and even when four players are battling each other onscreen at once in the largest levels, the 
 frame rate never drops once. All of the characters look stunning in their new designs, and their 
 every action, from their taunts to the expressions they make when on the receiving end of a blow, 
 is exceptionally well animated. Equally impressive is the game's soundtrack, which boasts more 
 than 100 songs from all over the Nintendo universe and beyond. Each of these tracks is arranged 
 specifically for Brawl by a star-studded lineup of composers that includes notables Koji Kondo 
 (Super Mario Bros.) , Yasunori Mitsuda (Chrono Trigger) , Yoko Shimomura (Kingdom Hearts) , and more. 

  Every now and then, a game comes along that is entirely must-have for every owner of the platforms 
 it is released on. Last holiday season, Nintendo struck that kind of chord with Super Mario Galaxy, 
 and now, less than six months later, that feat has been repeated with Super Smash Bros. Brawl. 
 Its simple controls and gameplay make it remarkably accessible to beginners yet still appealing 
 to Smash Bros. veterans. With the inclusion of mostly lag-free online play and the ability to share 
 screenshots, custom levels, and game replays with friends, it offers an unparalleled multiplayer 
 experience previously unseen on the Wii. Mix in all of the unlockable characters and stages, the 
 lengthy single-player adventure, and the exorbitant number of collectible trophies and stickers 
 to find, and you've got yourself the recipe for a game that, if its predecessors are any indication, 
 people will be playing for years to come.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1436 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: LuigiRulze
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2009 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Well if you've played other Super Smash Bros. its like those exept instead of it being a 10/10 
 game its a 12/10 game! + their is awesome graphics and so many new chracters! So the story line 
 for the story mode is about these people turning people into statues and youre trying to rescue 
 them in all these different places like in one level you will be in the Jungle controling Diddy 
 Kong or Donky Kong chasing after these koopas that stole your bananas and in another you'll be 
 Snake trying to invade a secret base. But the story mode is not the main mode. The main mode is 
 the AMAZING multiplayer that is 100% AWESOME there are also training modes and okay online I ould 
 give the online a 6 and a half out of ten. But the best part is the multiplayer so if you can invite 
 friends over a bit or have bro or a sister its awesome but my bro is 27 and he has moved out so 
 I only sometimes play with him but the funnest part is if you can have a friend over tons even 
 if you don't have friends that can come over lots nor a brother or sister this game is still a 
 must have for all WII owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMLSLAT
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2009 7:12 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Plenty of controller options; a ton of characters; more differentiation between said 
 characters, surprisingly; wonderful graphics; huge, orchestrated music that might not have ever 
 been orchestrated before; tons of modes, difficulties and options; Wi-Fi without lag; beautiful 
 cutscenes in Subspace Emissary, plus co-op; you can design levels; the best multiplayer ever.
 
  
  The Bad: Subspace Emissary is a huge improvement, but there are still kinks to iron out in single 
 player; Wi-Fi isn't that great without friend codes; not much is changed up from the first two.
 
  
  Super Smash Bros., the original, came out toward the end of the N64's life, so while it garnered 
 some attention, it wasn't quite the hit games like Super Mario 64, GoldenEye or Zelda: Ocarina 
 of Time were.
  
  Super Smash Bros. Melee, the second installment for Gamecube, was a massive improvement with more 
 levels, better graphics, more items, more characters, and the new Adventure mode and Event Matches. 
 It came out right off the bat in the Gamecube era, and was one of the bestselling titles on the 
 system. The multiplayer is famous for being one of the best party experiences video games have 
 ever produced.
  
  Brawl, for that reason, has become one of the most anticipated titles on the system, and has been 
 delayed numerous times. Now that it's finally here, you can rest assured that it is by far the 
 best Smash game, and one of the best multiplayer games, ever created.
  
  Right off the bat you'll learn that you have tons of controller options. The Wii remote held sideways, 
 the Wii remote and nunchuk, the Wii Classic Controller and the Gamecube controller can all be used 
 to take control of whichever character you decide to utilize. Plus, you can switch around the buttons 
 to fit your needs, giving you all the options you like and more. This makes for probably the most 
 customizable control set up a video game has ever had, so you can find what feels good to you. 
 Plus, if you're used to your Gamecube controller from Melee, you won't have to bother getting used 
 to a new control scheme.
  
  Next you have the production values. The graphics are some of the best on the Wii, which again 
 prove that if effort is put into the graphics, the Wii can look very pretty. It's not 360 level, 
 but it's games like this, Mario Galaxy, Metroid Prime, and the upcoming The Conduit that show it 
 can sure look close. Even though it's sidescrolling, you can clearly see how spectacular it looks.
 
  
  Meanwhile you have a fantastic music track. You'll hear all the theme songs for every game franchise 
 involved in the series, new work only for the Smash games, and you'll be able to hear it whenever 
 you like if you choose. Some of it, like Mario's classic theme or the original Hyrule Field Theme 
 have never been orchestrated before, making for a great new musical experience that shows off some 
 serious effort.
  
  Everywhere the game shows that it's not just a cash-in on how big the franchise has become by adding 
 in better graphics and a couple characters. Tender loving care was put into every moment of its 
 development, so the delays were well worth it.
  
  You'll hit a total of 35 characters, unheard of, even for Smash. These include the obvious Nintendo 
 franchise characters, like Mario, Link, Samus, Fox, Kirby, Pikachu and Captain Falcon, but there 
 are also a ton of lesser known ones. Olimar from Pikmin makes his first appearance. The Toon Link 
 from Wind Waker is here. R. O. B., the original Nintendo from Japan disguised as a toy, is now a 
 character. Ice Climbers are reappearing, who have been in a total of one game. Pit from Kid Icarus 
 is new to the table, and had two games a long time ago. And you'll have plenty of big characters 
 that just haven't had a crack at the game: Wolf and Wario are notable.
  
  And then you have, for the first time ever, characters from other companies. They stuck with two, 
 since the main focus is still, fortunately, Nintendo. But Sonic, the character people wanted in 
 Smash the most from other companies, is there as the fastest character in the game. And meanwhile, 
 because the devs of Smash and Metal Gear Solid are pals, Solid Snake is in there as one of the 
 toughest but slowest of them all.
  
  Now you have the different modes. Arcade mode, from the first game, is still intact. Adventure 
 mode is now replaced with Subspace Emissary, with an actual story and cutscenes to go with it. 
 Plus, a second player can come in at any time for co-op, and you can go back to past levels to 
 do them better, and playing it the whole way through unlocks tons of characters. Event matches 
 are still around, for zany, random battles. And then, of course, is the multiplayer.
  
  This is where Brawl, obviously, shines out the clearest. You have your straight up battles, timed, 
 or with coins or lives or whatever you like. You have team battles, computer players, tournament 
 mode, custom battles... The list goes on. You can do just about anything in multiplayer and have 
 a blast. You can choose what items you don't want to appear, and you can even make it so when you 
 hit someone, they die no matter what.
  
  Smash Balls, for that matter, are one of the biggest additions in terms of items. There are other 
 new ones, and all the old ones are still there, but Smash Balls, when hit enough, go inside your 
 character, and produce a different effect for each one. Samus will unleash a massive beam of energy 
 that kills just about anyone, but will then turn into Zero Suit Samus, as her armor runs out of 
 energy, and will need to get another Smash Ball to get the suit back. Kirby, on the other hand, 
 will put everyone nearby into a cooking pot, stir it up, and send everyone flying out of it, on 
 fire, with tons of damage done to them. Plus, food items will pop out along with them. These attacks 
 often kill your opponents and make it well worth hunting down the Smash attacks.
  
  Now you have trophies you can buy and make a big collection of with the coins you'll get through 
 battles, unlocking new characters, stages, and music as you go, and you'll get new blocks to make 
 your own stage. These are tons of fun to make, as you can make it as dangerous, big or small as 
 you like. You can put platforms wherever you choose, which can move up and down, make patterns, 
 everything. You even get to pick a song to go in the background, and you can then show it off to 
 your friends by playing in it in multiplayer.
  
  On the downside, you can't show off those stages in Wi-Fi. It's awesome that the game actually 
 has Wi-Fi, but it suffers from Nintendo's Friend Code system, which no one likes. Friend codes 
 are the kid at the table that has no friends. Without friend codes there's only one mode available, 
 a two minute battle with random people who join in too.
  
  With friend codes, it's a different story, thank God. You have the opportunity to pick what kind 
 of battle you'd like (team or melee, stock or time, tournament) , and customize a whole lot more 
 what kind of battle you want. You can't chat, since the Nintendo Speak deal coming up wasn't released 
 at that time. Still, it's good that it's in there and they did their best with what they had in 
 Nintendo's set up.
  
  Now as for the problems... Subspace Emissary is a massive improvement on what's come before it. 
 There's a legitimate story tying everything together, you'll be using every character by the end 
 of the story (except one) and playing through tons of levels. But there's a lot of unnecessary 
 platforming in there, and straight up battling is a lot more fun than the exploring is, by a long 
 shot. That's what Smash was made for, and it can't seem to overcome it. Still, it again shows effort 
 that everything that's there is there. Maybe sometime soon we'll see some truly wonderful single 
 player from the series.
  
  And there's one major problem that tore my grade of the game down a whopping .5. Everytime I play 
 Brawl, I can't help but feel that this is Melee with a fresh coat of paint. Hate me if you like, 
 but it's as if they took the Melee engine, put in better graphics, a couple new modes, orchestrated 
 music, and Wi-Fi, and called it a day. So all the awesome production values and characters and 
 such probably got so much attention because the game's engine was basically built. I don't like 
 dissing on Brawl, but it's true. In fact, I have trouble playing it for hours on end like I did 
 Melee because it feels like it's the same thing.
  
  Some of the higher difficult levels are nearly impossible for all the different stages, but other 
 than that there really isn't much to complain about. You'll get hundreds of hours of gameplay from 
 the title, at first tons and tons of it to unlock things, and then a casual play every now and 
 then afterward. The production values and sheer detail in there is through the roof, and despite 
 those minor nuisances, Brawl is one of the best Wii games this year. It's definitely a must buy, 
 as Smash always has been, for it's absolutely spectacular multiplayer experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClassicGamerH20
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2009 1:15 pm PT
Review:  We all remember melee on the gamecube right? It was AMAZING and at the time my favorite fighter 
 but when push comes to shove is honestly prefer brawl now. I played melee again a few weeks ago 
 because it had been in my game cabinet for so long and i played it for a solid 30 minutes and i 
 took it out of my wii and put brawl back in... And realised how much better it was. Brawl has a 
 HUGE selection of characters and levels ad not only that but now you can also build levels and 
 choose from hundreds of some of the greatest video game songs of all time. You can also collect 
 tropies and even stickers now plus on top of all this craziness you also get the sse mode... Where 
 nearly all the characters in the game join forces to stop the biggest and badest bosses of them 
 all. And guess what? There is even more to do besides that! There are also trials of past nintendo 
 games which rock if your trying to decide what to get on virtual console and theres event mode 
 where you ply through tons of fun missions and best of all there is wifi mode which makes the game 
 fun to play alone! There is even MORE content to this game believe it or not so if your not convinced 
 on playing brawl after reading about ALL this just remember its not just a GIANT game its a truly 
 incredible one.
  
  
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bladex8
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 18, 2009 7:25 am PT
Review:  First off for the people who are not familiar to smash bros. this is a game where you choose your 
 favourite nintendo  and then fight each other. They have added 
 a lot of stages even though i miss great bay from melee.
  This game is one of the best fightings ever and the best platformer ever;
  Smash bros is one 
 amazing game there are now three in the series and they always get better.
  
  Graphics: are really imprssive sometimes I just pause the screen and look at the graphics. They 
 are that good.
  
  easy controls (you can change them and choose with wii mote nunchuk or the classic controller) 
 and you can decide the difficulty wth tons of gamemodes like classic all-star and boss battles 
 with unlockebles that has to be unlocked. Pure awsomeness.
  
  The roster : well melee the previous series had a problem most off them were 'clones'. Characters 
 with the same moveset now most of them where banished (dr. mario, roy, young link, pikachu) also mewtwo 
 got banned even tough he is no clone. falco and ganondorf the clones who are in brawl are decloned 
 and there are differences. Instead of replacing young link with a character with an original moveset 
 they replaced him by toon link o_O.
  Isn't that worse? at leas he's the only clone and is a little different.
  
  Smash bros had 
 one weakness called single player mode butt if you are a great fan that shouldn't be a problem. 
 Thank god brawl tried to fix that with a new changed adventure mode the subspace emnissary (like 
 a story) where characters battle against tabuu the most evil villian in video game history and 
 he attacks by butterflywings =] .
  
  One great addition was the stage builder: build your own stages isn't that great?
  
  If you 
 have a wii buy it NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toastisgood
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 4:19 pm PT
Review:  After almost a year of waiting, Super Smash Bros. Brawl is finally released. And now, I will finally 
 get around to reviewing it.
  
  Gameplay:10
  With it's percent-based health, multiple different game modes, amazing multiplayer that is really 
 good with friends, although it really has bad online.....
  Either way, the game has really great gameplay.
  
  Graphics:9.0
  Ok well, Nintendo really 
 didn't think about this. the graphics aren't exactly like Crysis. But it's actually pretty good 
 considering the wii's graphics capabilities.
  
  Replay Value:9.5
  I still haven't finished quite a few of the challenges in the game, when it takes a long time to 
 finish every single one of them, not to mention playing it with friends.
  
  Multiplayer:9.5
  As I mentioned before, Super Smash Bros. Brawl is a really fun game to play 
 with friends over, but the online is just horrible, as with pretty much every Wii game.
  
  Score:9.5
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nolan_Walker
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2009 3:07 pm PT
Review:  This game had a lot of the things I liked, and few that I disliked. 
  
  For one, all of the old characters are back: DK, Mario, Fox, Yoshi, Kirby, Samus, Pikachu, and 
 Link.
  
  I liked the graphics of the game. Clear and crisp. The Adventure mode was a big improvement. Instead 
 of playing hours of VS Mode, you would just have to play this until the end to get all the characters. 
 Not to say it is easy, but it is quicker.
  
  Secondly, they got newer characters that were an enjoyable twist upon the game, and kept most of 
 the characters from Melee and put them onto Brawl. good idea, Nintendo.
  
  They also took all the useless characters (Pichu, Roy, Dr. Mario, sorry if u liked them) and put 
 in Ike, R. O. B, and Olimar.
  
  Should Sonic be in there? NO. Bad choice Nintendo. There is no need for a Sega character in a Nintendo 
 game (in my opinion, of course) .
  
  I like the Smash balls, but they can be very cheap in battle, so it's kind a win/fail for me on 
 that topic.
  
  Overall, a very fun game. Let's hope for a new one to come out...
  
  SSBR: Super Smash Bros... REVOLUTION!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buster9999
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Now to tell the truth, this is actually a god among games. If your smart, you'll buy this game. 
 Trust me, not only are you working hours on end to unlock all the characters, but if you have friends 
 (I did XD) you can just have fun playing a bit of multiplayer action. Or you can even go online 
 to fight people. I never got tired of that.
  
  Not to mention, the wide arrange of characters, the detailed environments, the battles of doom, 
 and not to forget the boss fights. This game is superior to mostly any in graphics, sound, gameplay, 
 time spent, and more that I don't even know yet.
  
  This game, unlike many MANY others, isn't just button mashing. When it comes down to it, you need 
 skill to win, not just button mashing. Out of all my time playing, I turned Ike, Pikachu, Lucario, 
 and Fox into lethal weapons. Not just from my hours with training 1-on-1 with the computer, with 
 only 300 stamina, in a boxed in map, but also with fighting enemies online, I found how a lot of 
 players play their characters to the max. It seemed to me that I could adapt their skills into 
 my own.
  
  The only one downside is... Pit spamming noobs. Oh trust me, when your online, the one thing you 
 never see end is the people who play Pit, shoot you repeatedly with arrows, then hit you out when 
 your damage meter is high. Oh no, those losers can't play for one. The people who don't hide behind 
 Pit in a desperate attempt to make themselves look good are the real players. So yeah Pit spammers. 
 I'm talking to all you out there, who think your good. Honestly, you couldn't suck more, but saying 
 that is a complement.
  
  So yeah. I give this a 9.5 out of 10. (just because of Pit-spammers) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Theman132
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 12:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome, because there are so many characters from games likePokemon, Mario, Kirby, meteoroid, 
 Zelda, sonic, star fox, and metal gear solid. Plus the game play is wonderful too. The story needs 
 some improvement, like the characters actually talking. And some characters from capcom and other 
 companies are not their. But the characters they have are awesome, and the story mode is cool and 
 this is the first one that they had it in too. They also added the cds, trophies, and figures for 
 doing certain things in the game in their. The game has the original story mode (which isn't a 
 story) is pretty fun like in the other games too. But one of the greatest things are the coin launcher, 
 mingame-type things, and the multiplayer. So stop whatever you are doing and get one of the best 
 game for the wii. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrisM95
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2009 6:41 pm PT
Review:  - Let me get straight to the point, this is an incredible game that any Wii owner should have. 
 Enough said.
  
  
  Ups
  ----------
  -Enourmous character roster
  -Many stages to brawl on
  -Online play is fun
  -Stage creator is great
  -Plenty of customization 
 features
  -You can play as Snake from MGS
  
  Downs
  ----------
  -Subspace Emissary ain't so hot
  -Online play is laggy
  
  
  -SSBB is the long awaited sequel 
 to Nintendo's star fighting franchise last seen in 2004 with Super Smash Bros. Melee. In Brawl, 
 you can choose from an enourmous character roster that includes returning veterans from the first 
 2 games, along with new challengers, like Sonic the Hedgehog and Solid Snake. Overall there are 
 35 fighters, so there will be plenty of variety on the battlefield. Speaking of battlefields, Brawl 
 has a whopping 41 stages to duke it out on. That 41 stage limit can increase with the new Stage 
 Creator, which enables you to either create a stage from scratch, or download some off the internet. 
 While we're on the topic of internet, Brawl can be played online with 4 other players. At times 
 it can be laggy, but it is still fun. The story mode - The Subspace Emissary, is fun, and is pretty 
 cool, but some of the enemies are extremely uncreative. 
  -So, like I've said before; if you own a Wii, you have to have this game - or you have not yet 
 lived. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOSTLEAD3R
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 17, 2009 10:21 am PT
Review:  If you answered yes to any of these questions, then
  1) You already have SSBB.
  Or
  B) You need to get SSBB.
  Simply enough, this game may not be the best for what the score says 
 and indicates, but honestly, If you have a Wii you have no excuse not to get this game, Any Wii 
 owner should have this game in their library at one point in its time.
  Buy this game. Period.
  
  What can I say that can't be said about the game; Super Smash Bros 
 Brawl? (There are already a handful of reviews and growing on this site, why do you need my view?)
 
  Well everyone has there own opinion and idea of a game, so what will one more hurt?
  
  The game modes:
  SSE (Subspace Emissary: the adventure mode of the game) , Online play, Create 
 a stage, Replays, 36 character roster, New stages, Huge Song play list, 4 types of control, 3rd 
 party characters?
  
  How can you say something bad about something that has so many things to throw at you, including 
 your kitchen sink!
  As the saying goes:
  "Jack of all trades, good at everything, great at nothing"
  
  Honestly when I got this game 
 I was so happy and thrilled that I finally got the game I was drooling and nerdgasming over for 
 the past 3 years.
  I went to my friend's house, and played to my little hearts content
  Then the magic was over, I finished a good amount of content in the game, till I asked
  "Where's 
 the rest of it?!?!?!" Well looking at all the new and interesting stuff, I notice a great deal 
 of just good and not great game additions added to Super Smash Bros Brawl:
  
  -36 characters, not enough if you ask me, at least for the wait the fans had to endure.
  ~3rd 
 party characters: Sonic and Snake? What no 3rd party characters with out an S in front of their 
 name!!! Or do all 3rd party characters have S's in front of their name? Samus?
  -Replays, 3 min. cap, and not formatted for video playback. 
  -SSE, cut scenes are short, game 
 play is repetitive, and overall you may never come back to it again after completing it. I know 
 I didn't.
  -4 types of controls: Gamecube controller. PERIOD.
  -Create a stage: expect you can only use 3 layouts, cant turn objects upside down or overlap, can't 
 have walk off stages, and only use a set amount of block space.
  -L. AG online. 
  +Music, was/is amazing, I suggested downloading it and putting 
 on your Ipod (or other media music carrier) for on the go urges to listen to SSBB music, after 
 all I think we all get that urge to state that "this here is Mona's Pizza" Makers of the world's 
 best eatsa
  
  
  ~ Game play: Well, one thing can be said about Brawl, its not melee 2.0. As well, someone can understand 
 that a lot of people expecting melee 2.0 were disappointed. Mainly the competitive scene, the competitive 
 scene over all finds Brawl's type of game play, as Sonic would put it, "too slow". I'll admit to 
 a degree that Brawl was lowered on the competitive belt, but not because of Sakurai wanting to 
 appeal to more non-gamers, no because Sakurai just wanted this game to finish, and this game over 
 all just doesn't feel complete. It's not like it's a bad game, but it tries so hard to be something 
 its not and spread it's self all over to the point that it loses what it was in melee. Honestly, 
 Brawl just is not a complete game, it's a good game, but it's not the complete one. SSBB has its 
 own type of game play and it's good for what it is, just not great like it should be.
  
  Anyone that's a fan of the series, I would like to think, sees this game as not a complete one, 
 but good enough to pass, and satisfies us. But at the same time we can't just rob the experience 
 of Brawl away from us. Unfortunely, this is one of the times that sloth prevails and a good game, 
 that could have been great, will only be good, and people will still buy it because it's the best 
 they did with it. Plus a number of glitches found already. Lucas/Ness players are sad pandas in 
 the competitive scene. It's just sad to see that what could have been great is just good.
  
  I'll still play this game, I'll recommend it too others, but I'm not going to say it's great, 
 but its something that a gamer of the Wii (or any system really) should get, just for the experience.
 
  
  
  
  Landmaster!!!! Named after the lazy master.
  Some things are unforgivable. The holocaust, slavery, Banging your best friend's wife, and Landmasters.
 
  
  The idea of a final smash is a character performs her/his ultimate attack. Cool so that means each 
 will be different right?
  Well as expected some have Final Smashes similar
  Ness/Lucas: same
  But understandable, both are PSI handlers and use PSI so its understandable 
 that their move would at least be a PSI move.
  Toon/Link: same
  But understandable, both are the same hero of courage, one is smaller and tooner then the other 
 though
  
  But what makes the least sense
  Fox/Falco/Wolf: same
  Sure we can argue about itbut honestly this is just laziness to the extreme. Sorry but Falco's 
 and Wolf's Final Smashes do not make sense to the slightest degree.
  Falco is an ace pilot, he is good in the air. Now why is he in a LANDmaster!!!
  Wolf, Im not 
 even going to go here, let's just say, why?
  
  
  SeriouslySakurai I could have done better then that, if I had the means, for shame.
  
  Masterpieces 
 the shameless plug
  Hey guys guess what you can unlock games that the characters that you play have been in before. 
 And hey guess what *wink, wink* they are now on the virtual console *nudge, nudge*.
  
  Where's Mewtwo/Roy? plot device
  Like any good sitcom, Super Smash Bros has written out a character (s) 
 they introduced into the series and never fully explained why s/he was left out.
  
  
  Brawl is a good and must have game, odd to say that right? The biggest problem for me is that it 
 just doesn't feel complete. It's like Sakurai just said, "hey that's good enough, let's just release 
 it now".
  Then made a crack about how the rest of the world should wait for another 3 months or more to play 
 the same games, then I imagine him making a racist joke after that. And that overall is the basic 
 problem I see about Brawl, it just does not feel done. Put it back in and make everything better 
 Sakurai! It just feels like one of those games that are good but not great, which by Nintendo and 
 especially the Super Smash Bros series standards is not enough. But why recommend it? Why reward 
 such behavior? Honestly, because despise what feels like a half butt attempt at Brawl, it is still 
 a fun game. It may not be as competitive or great as melee or the 64 versions of Super Smash Bros 
 series, but its still fun. And that is what a game is about fun. My hang ups of fandom toward brawl 
 should not hinder or make me feel that I shouldn't play brawl, I should. It's a good game, but 
 by no means great. I feel you when you say that it feels you been robbed, but sometimes you just 
 have to suck it up and just play the cards your given, or in this case game.
  
  All around buy this game, it's good just not great, but make no mistake, when you don't experience 
 it you will be missing out.
  
  (reviewed in 2008)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xequtra
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 2:56 am PT
Review:  ---Visuals ---
  
  Nice and crisp with just minor questions in some characters. Can hardly see some of the things 
 or items on screen. Sometimes hard to make out what exactly the heck is going on screen due to 
 the number of players moving so close to each other.
  
  
  ----Audio ----
  
  A lot of sounds recycled from the old Super Smash Brothers and Melee, with a couple of new additional 
 sounds for the game. Some of the music can get irritating if left on for too long. But at least 
 it works...
  
  
  ---Gameplay ---
  
  With snake being one of the most hyped up characters to be included in the game, they really made 
 a bad name for the character by making some of his attacks weird, slow, but powerful. Buttons are 
 just like how old players are used to with the exception of the final attack, which requires a 
 certain and pushing a single button to perform an outrageous, which are actually unique to all 
 character. The buttons are friendly to both new and old players, but some of the characters attacks 
 have been changed since the last version. There's even a balancing issue with some characters, 
 but then comes down to the people who play it... Great down side is the issue of the randomers 
 or move-tappers (using the same move over and over and over, not bothering to use other moves) 
 becomes a really great annoyance more than anything.
  When's there's a bloody party on... I don't want to be spending over 30 hours unlocking everything 
 or re-unlocking everything as if players are forced to do anything... getting whacked over the 
 head by a baseball bat would be far more entertaining than going down the same tunnel full of cow 
 manure, then to realise that it is also filled with poisonous creatures and then told to rescue 
 a bottle of water on the other side. Where's the logic in the torture session just to have a bit 
 of fun?!?
  On really big stages, on a small screen... I'd have more fun swatting flies than watching pixels 
 swatting each other... Not everyone owns really big 40 inch TVs... So what chance does uni people 
 with small TVs playing on silly sized TVs can see small pixels prancing more than kids on sugar 
 rushes?
  But at least there are mini-games right? Well... I couldn't be really bothered....
  
  
  ---Longevity ---
 
  
  The Challenges are just fun and sometimes, they are just plain out crazy. At other times... down 
 right annoying... Unlockers and achievers would love this game to bits. But it isn't to me. Competitions 
 would be a big draw point here
  
  ---Stab Time ---
  
  Woo!
  
  Snake? ... Snake.... SNAKE!
  Marth Returns!
  Final Attacks are just funny
  There's actually 
 a map editor!
  Near to same formula from Melee in Brawl
  Fun multiplayer game!
  Some of the stages are original and really funny
  Tetris music is there!
  Return of some good 
 ole' we miss and love
  Mortar and Final Attack FTW!
  Pick-up and play
  Newcomer friendly!
  Co-op in some missions possible
  
  
  Boo!
  
  Snake is just crazy 
 to use and is quite slow
  Jigglypuff's one hit KO is no longer as effective and twice as hard to use
  Who the heck really 
 uses Pokemon Trainer anyways?
  There are just some useless characters
  No help from instruction manual about some of the tools
  Using the Wiimote isn't as good as Gamecube 
 controllers, which I don't own...
  Why is the game designed for Wii if the buttons on the Wiimote is useless?
  The taunt button 
 is suppose to be Z not the D-pad
  Some of the maps are just plain old nuts
  No sense in where some trophies should be located in the awards cabinet
  So many possible achievements
 
  Finding some characters not that easy
  Can't change soundtracks when designing your own map
  Give us the cheat to unlock everything 
 so everyone can at least have fun...
  Definition of fun does not include the word... "torture"
  Can't be bothered unlocking everything...
 
  Not too bothered with the mini-games...
  Doesn't really reward players for being really funny
  Life made really hard...
  Sonic + Final 
 Smash = Overkill...
  
  
  
  Loved by many... but that doesn't include me... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiidsduelpack
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 3:32 pm PT
Review:  To review the game, we must list the good and the bad
  Good: 
  It really doesn't matter what character you use, they're all good. There seems to be a balance 
 between a characters weakness and advantanges. For example, Link can create heavy damage and has 
 all kinds of weapons, but he is slow. Mario is the most balanced character.
  
  Adventure mode takes more than 10 hours. Lets you play with all characters and helps determine 
 which is your favorite character. I would recommend playing it first to unlock all the hidden characters 
 and trophies or music for the Brawl stages. 
  
  All star mode, classic, event modes and matches offer a variety of different gaming modes. Creates 
 more time to play the game, gives you more practice. 
  
  If my math is correct, there are 132 challenges. Challenges include from the adventure mode, classic, 
 all star, and everything of the game. Definitely takes more time than in the adventure mode.
  
  Bad
  All star mode and classic requires to finish challenges, the use of all characters. 
 There are 32 or 33 characters to complete all star or classic
  and that takes a long time. Finishing classic with one character takes me more than 15 minutes, 
 so images how much time it will take to complete with all characters. All star mode is even longer 
 than that. It is more boring than fun. Well, the greatest part of the game is playing online, so 
 I would suggest to play online with your friends and other more than playing single or friends 
 at home.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fenris1124
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 10:06 am PT
Review:  Super smash bros brawl (SSBB for short) can be summed up in one word and that one word is "unprecedented". 
 Reasons being that brawl offers a host of single player modes to sink your teeth in, the new ability 
 to battle people over Nintendo wifi connection, and as always a new host of characters for you 
 to play as or beat up. Brawl has so much data packed onto its single disc it will last you for 
 years to come, that is if you don't over play it. I have divided this review into two sections 
 the first being some of what brawl offers and the second is my critic review.
  
  
  --Single Player Modes --
  -Subspace Emissary (SSE) 
  In this mode you play as your favorite 
 characters and battle enemies on a side scrolling adventure to save the world from evil forces. 
 Also this mode is features Co-op play at any time. This mode could be a game all on its own. I 
 say this because it is lengthy, action-packed, and well it's just that good. 
  -Home Run Contest
  Beat up a sandbag with a chosen character and then hit with a baseball bat 
 in the time limit and see how far it flies.
  -Multi-man Brawl
  In this mode you fight weak enemies know as alloys. You can either fight a certain number of them 
 like 100 or you can infinite and try to beat your score.
  
  NOTE: There are two modes that are only accessible after beating the Subspace Emissary but I wouldn't 
 spoil them for you.
  
  --Multiplayer-
  Ah, the thing makes super smash bros so super. Obviously, you battle 4 people in matches until 
 you knock them off the screen, but the fun doesn't stop there. In brawl you can create your own 
 stages. Sounds fun doesn't it well don't get too excited because it has lots of useless pieces, 
 but it is still fun. Now the two biggest things to come the series are final smashes and assist 
 trophies. Final smashes are basically a special attack that unique to your character. They usually 
 deal massive damage or a on hit KO. Assist trophies have characters that will spawn. Basically 
 they are pokballs but on steroids.
  
  --Wifi-
  SSBB has the new ability to play online. Hurray now you can challenge others from around the world 
 or your best friend from around the corner without leaving the comfort of your own couch! Sounds 
 awesome doesn't it? Well sadly its not. The wifi application seems like it was rushed. You have 
 to wait forever just top get into match and when you play with friends it is almost impossible 
 to get into the game without it freezing. Most of the time when you play with anyone it's the same 
 boring stage over and over again which gets super annoying.
  
  
  As you can tell brawl has a lot to offer. This game has a very high replay value which usually 
 the most important thing in a game. Also the extent of its single player modes is almost unfathomable. 
 SSBB will guarantee hours of multiplayer fun even if it's over the sub par wifi connection. This 
 game is one that every wii owner should have in his/her collection. Just about anyone can pick 
 up the game and play for the control system is very simple and keeps things real. Also one of the 
 best features in the game is the ability to take pictures during matches. You won't believe some 
 of the things that you will see when you randomly pause the game. Super Smash Bros Brawl is truly 
 unlike the other in the series. This fighting game is truly amazing and is definitely worth a look. 
 So I recommend you go out and buy a copy of this game or if by chance you have played it then I 
 ask what are you waiting for? Games this good only come every once in while so enjoy it while it 
 last.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: designer_zombie
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 5, 2009 6:21 pm PT
Review:  It's a decent game to play with friends online but it is not totally perfect I find somethings 
 boring somethings extremely good, I like the campaign in a way the graphics kinda have a blur but 
 perfectg for how far the wiis graphics can be. It's still good though i like unlocking new geatures 
 and sound and how many characters you can play with with the disadvantages and advantages, though 
 the game is filled with random items which make the game unfair such as player 1 is stuck in a 
 corner, and a smash ball comes out and player 2 gets the smash ball and player 2 autimatically 
 beats player 1 after the smash attack. 
  I like the character marth for his sword fighting. In the n64 version of brawl samus is much more 
 powerfule than the samus n super smash brothers brawl, I play super smash brothers from time time (once 
 a month) and it's okay I play from 10-60 minutes so you can see i do not play often.
  Playing online is the best feaure though or against your friend because there is more of a challenge 
 instead of going on insane, the bosses are easy, and it is not quite enrtaining so i'd suggest 
 another level on increasing insanity of the game, I also like playing those brawls that go on forever 
 till your character dies. 
  From time-to-time my favorite character changes, my first favorite character was pikachu (he sucks 
 to me now) and I know what you are thinking when I say that. I also find that that I like the camera 
 where you pause the game during a fight and you can take pictures, I get bored with the limited 
 amount of moves each character uses and I expect more moves each character use, and I want the 
 itmes taken away.
  Overall the game is good but not perfect, and the multiplayer feature is the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DGDFDGFBBYT
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2009 7:11 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 96 % : Super smash bros brawl is one of the best game ever made because all the games 
 like zelda, super mario sunshine, and ect... where great but super smash bros brawl added characters 
 from allot of different games and they added cool new weapons. In this game you have wi-fi-connection 
 you can get trophies listen to metroid prime music, zelda music, play in maps like pictochat and 
 from allot of different games, you can also create your own stage with pretty much what you want 
 to add in it. This game is a must buy because i never like fighting games because i tought they 
 were boring and repetitive but brawl is just insane and awesome.
  
  
  
  Graphics 92 % : The graphics are good and impressive its colourfull and its very detailed. i just 
 love it.
  
  
  Sound 94% : the music and the sound are perfect
  
  Controls : The controls are simple if you look in the instruction booklet you can see the combos 
 with the buttons that you can do.
  
  
  THIS IS THE BEST 3D FIGHTING GAME EVER CREATED
  
  9.0 OUT OF 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cecil_Highwind
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2009 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl Review:
  Okay, let me start this off by saying I have nothing against Super Smash Bros. Brawl. I like the 
 multiplayer and have had a lot of fun with this game. If I sound negative, that's just because 
 I don't have room for all of the good things. Now, let's get on with this review.
  Single Player
  First, the single player modes. I'll start off with Subspace Emissary. It has 
 a good story, with tons of really cool looking cut scenes. The story is good, but not Final Fantasy 
 quality, but comes close. Each character is minding their own business until the Ancient Minister 
 and his ROBs armed with Subspace bombs show up and blow their space into oblivion. They then join 
 your team to defeat the Ancient Minister. Each character retains their own personality well and 
 there are very few throwaway characters. You advance through the story by means of 2D side scrolling 
 stages.
  You start off each stage with a short cut scene that explains the situation of whatever character 
 or characters you get to control. After the cut scene, you go to a character selection screen. 
 If there are 4 characters, then you get four or more lives. You choose what order you want to play 
 the characters in, and then begin the stage. The enemies walk freely through the stages and try 
 to kill you. If you die, which is very unlikely, you can pay a small fee to be revived at the last 
 checkpoint. You are rarely set back by very much. Once you complete the stage, you see another 
 cut scene that explains the purpose of the next stage.
  The stages are varied and have beautiful backdrops. The enemies look good and have great attacks 
 that almost never feel cheap. 
  Most of the stages are quite fun to play, but some are huge letdowns. The last stage feels like 
 an entire Castlevania game. Almost all of the other stages are put together to form a massive 
 whatever you call it. You start off with only a small map of the structure, but the map expands 
 to form a complicated maze and you progress through it. Also, so that it doesn't take you forever 
 to complete the stage and you can get places easier, you gain warp and save points as you traverse 
 the place. You also face off against every boss and dark versions of every character in special 
 rooms. Once you have killed them all, you face the final boss. It feels like a small scale Castlevania 
 game. The final boss is like facing Dracula at the end of his castle. The entire stage took me 
 about 3 hours to complete, around  of the single player adventure. After 1-2 hours, you get tired 
 of the stage.
  Another complaint that I have is that some of the stages are auto-scrolling. That means that the 
 camera keeps moving, even if you stop. You're sure to die for even the slightest lapse of attention. 
 Get stuck on the slightest object, and say good-bye to your current character.
  My last complaint is that the bosses are never too hard. Most bosses only have one move that launches 
 you very far, and go down quickly. Once you have found out their pattern, it's easy to win. The 
 final boss is aggravatingly hard, and most likely will make you throw down your controller in anger 
 at least once.
  Now I'll do Classic. There is not much new this time around. Like in Melee, each character has 
 to complete as set number of stages and then faces the Master Hand. It's a good mode, and will 
 keep you hooked for a while. You get a trophy with the character on it once you beat Classic mode 
 with them.
  Little is new in All-Star mode. After beating the Subspace Emissary, you can take on the challenge 
 of defeating every character in the game with only 300% damage worth of healing supplies. You face 
 the characters in groups according to game series. It works well, and you get cool trophies of 
 their Final Smash that are worth the effort. 
  Next up is Events. You complete specific objectives with different characters. Most of the objectives 
 are easily doable, but some of them seem cheap. This isn't a real problem, because there is no 
 need to complete them. There is also Target Smash. You take your character of choice around a course 
 trying to smash all of the targets in the least amount of time possible. Unlike in Melee, there 
 are preset courses for all of the characters, instead of each character having a different layout. 
 It's also a little bit easier.
  In addition to that, there are different types of Brawls where you battle wire figures. There are 
 5 different types of wire figures with different behaviors for each. There are a number of Brawl 
 types to choose from, including Cruel Brawl (the enemies are super powerful) , 10-Minute Brawl (duh) , 
 and 100 Man Brawl (you face 100 wire figures) . Also, you can do a Home Run Contest. You beat up 
 a sack man, then smash him some number of feet. It didn't entertain me for long, but I don't know 
 about you.
  Multiplayer
  That's all of the single player modes. Now I will review the multiplayer modes. Remember that I 
 cannot review every single aspect, so don't expect perfection.
  First up is the basic brawl mode. You and 3 other friends can quickly start up a match on teams 
 or a free-for-all. You can play on up to 43 stages and any stages you made on your own. More on 
 that later. There are 35 characters available. It's a great multiplayer game that masters the "minutes 
 to learn, years to master" effect. If you want a good multiplayer game, don't look any farther. 
 This is a great game with a lot of bang for your buck.
  It also has a tourney mode that allows you to play with up to 32 people. It uses the process of 
 elimination to determine the victor. It is an entertaining mode for as few as 4, and up to as many 
 as 32 people. Like everything else, it is not needed, but makes this an even better package. There 
 is also a special brawl mode that allows you to turn certain effects on and off, such as being 
 giant or tiny and invisible or metal. It is quite entertaining to have a clash of the titans with 
 DK, Bowser, and the King shooting fireballs and made of metal. 
  I don't have any real complaints about the multiplayer mode. It's not perfect, but any complaints 
 would feel nitpicky.
  Online Modes
  Okay, the online mode was a letdown. These days, the connection is slow to get you set up to play 
 a brawl when playing with random people. If you plan to play with friends, the connection is quick 
 and rarely lags. With friends, this is a great online game, but it you plan to play with strangers, 
 this isn't the best game. You can bet on random matches for a few extra coins, but you usually 
 lose more than you earn. It was a good addition and could distract you for a half-hour or so.
 
  A complaint that Gamespot had was that you can't use custom stages online. Well, of course you 
 can't! It might contain something vulgar, and it would be hard to transmit the stage to all participants. 
 It would be an unneeded strain on the servers. The strain of the extra data might produce lag and 
 make the game less fun. It's just not needed or expected.
  One thing that would have been nice, though, would have been a ranking system. That way, you could 
 bet with a small sense of security.
  Extras
  This game has a ton of extras. I start off with the stage creator. It's nice addition, but don't 
 expect to make an amazing stage. Unless you are really good, don't expect much. If you are a pro, 
 though, there is the potential to make some great stages. I don't use this much, but it could be 
 really fun for some people. It was a nice addition.
  Another addition was the way to earn new trophies and stickers, the Coin Launcher. In Melee it 
 was just a little machine that you put coins in and got out trophies. It is really fun, and could 
 almost be its own game if you added a little back story. In the game, you shoot down fleets of 
 enemies to earn stickers and shoot trophies that come across the screen to earn them. You shoot 
 the coins that you earned in the main game.
  There is also the trophy and sticker gallery where you can line up you trophies and stickers to 
 take pictures that can be sent to your friends. Also, you can view your trophies and extra info 
 about them that is interesting Nintendo trivia.
  There are also other "modes" that are things like a music player that don't impact the game play 
 very much and would take up too much space to describe here.
  
  
  Overall 
  This game is definitely a game worth checking out. They could have marketed the Subspace Emissary 
 as its own game, and the same for the multiplayer. There are tons of features that weren't necessary, 
 but make this an even better package. It's a "must own" if there ever was for the Wii. This is 
 a great way to spend your $50.
  Single Player: 8.0
  Multiplayer: 10.0
  Online: 6.5
  Extras: 9.5
  Final Score: 9.0
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicTH777
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2009 6:58 am PT
Review:  What do you get when you bring all your favorite nintendo characters into one place and tell them 
 to fight till the death? Super Smash Bros. Brawl. Yes, the smashing hit from the n64 to the gamecube 
 is back on the wii for the 3rd game in it's series. What's so fun about it? Let's just say you 
 can get mario and kick pikachu in his face. that's what. With over 30 characters, lot's of modes, 
 lots of items, now there's a story mode, lots stages, you can now MAKE stages, and many more! one 
 of my favorite things about this is, you can play as sonic the hedgehog!
  
  this game is so awesome that you will want to buy a wii JUST to get this game. AND NOW, the super 
 smash bros. series has nintendo wi-fi connection so you can play buddies all over the world! 
 
  
  
  
  p. s. once you start playing, you'll never want to stop playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PHILRYABKIN
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2009 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl is just plain awesome. I dont even need to say much it's Smash Bros!!! Nintendo 
 had alot of hype going for this game and it lived up to it. It's the most simplist fighting game 
 you will ever play. Now more than 35 characters have been added, Awesome stages, The greatest music 
 ever composed in a Video Game and so much more. There is also a new story mode called The Subspace 
 Emmisary. It's a sidescroler beat'em up but with a Kingdom Hearts like story. The story is simple 
 The Anicent Minster and Tabuu are trying to controll the land of Nintendo. So now it's up to our 
 Nintendo heroes to save us all. You can play the game with a Wii Remote sideways or with the Nunchuk. But 
 I reccomend using a Gamecube controller or Classic Controller. Trust me you will thank me later. You 
 also get a ton of Trophies and Stickers of each character and there is more than 500 trophies in 
 the game. Now you get all the Nintendo in the game. Characters like Mario, Link, Donkey  
 now new Nintendo characters like King Dedede and Wario have been added. Also 2 Non Nintendo characters 
 have been added. Snake from the Metal Gear franchise and Sonic the Hedgehog. Nintendo has also added 
 Wi-Fi but it could have been slighty better. The Final Smash has also been added. Which is kinda 
 like A Fatlity in Mortal Kombat, A special Alpha move in Street Fighter or a Ultra Combo in Killer 
 Instinct. To activate it just Destory the Ball when you see it and then hold down the B button and 
 your good. There are many Final Smashes and most of them are awesome. Overall Super Smash Bros Brawl 
 is an Awesome game. It was worth the wait for it, It improved on Melee and the orginal and It's just 
 awesome. Go buy it now if you haven't tried it out yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smashking02
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2009 12:37 pm PT
Review:  The smash brothers series has been amazing and this game is the reason for it... I'll start with 
 the big additions.
  Smash Brothers Melee +
  New graphics engine
  New character models (like wire frames etc.)
  More Characters (35)
  Story mode (Subspace Emissary)
 
  More 2 player modes (home run contest, challenges etc.)
  Addition of Bosses in the game (not playable)
  Custom Stages
  Online Play (all the same options 
 with either friends or worldwide)
  All these additions and more are what make this game so epic. If you like kingdom hearts or fighting 
 in general this is what you are getting. But almost everyone bought these things on the release 
 date. For those that didn't, That is unfortunate because you won't get to enjoy the worldwide features 
 of online play. 
  Final Verdict:
  The fighting is fun and fast paced and there's always a way to kill somebody!!! 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: babyYoshi29
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 9:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is THE best Wii game up to date. I've been waiting for this game ever since its announcement. 
 The storyline is so much better than in melee, but still is a little lame. A great selection of 
 characters with very interesting smashes. Some of the characters (Link and Wind Waker Link, Fox 
 Wolf and Falco) are way too similar. The other characters are diverse and fun to play as. Against 
 the CPU can be a difficult match if set to the correct difficulty to your particular playing style. 
 The fighting is always fun, and the battles always different. Their is so much to do with boss 
 battle, and all the other modes. The online is decent for a wii game but sometimes can be choppy. 
 The game does have its flaws but with some time they're easy to overlook. Overall it's an AMAZING 
 game and is worth every cent you pay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerofMario1
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2009 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl is the revolutionary game for Wii! Everything about this game is top-notch, 
 including controls and music. Plus, the game's many different modes will keep you playing for hours.
 
  First, I will get into the controls. There are many control types for everyone. The wii remote, 
 remote+ nun chuck, game cube controller, and classic, the game was made for everyone in mind. 10/10
 
  The game play was nearly flawless. All characters preformed perfectly, and the speed was much 
 better than its predecessor. I had just one problem, which was that if you played against more 
 than one computer player, they seem to gang up on you, slightly. Also, Wi-Fi was not up to the 
 task, but I did not play it too much. It is much better with friends than with anyone. 9.7/10
 
  The characters in this game, along with music and stages, were highly diverse and wonderful. From 
 Zelda to Mario to Ice Climbers to Snake to Wolf, they are a great game cast. (But next time, add 
 more F-Zero characters, Mega Man, and Ridley, if possible.) At first, I thought Jigglypuff was 
 a stupid piece of bubblegum, but it grows on you, and now it is one of my top characters. The music 
 is from every series of Nintendo and more; I even heard music from Japan-only games! 10/10
  Every stage was beautifully graphical and efficient. In one stage, nothing happened (Final Destination) 
 but in another, fire was shooting out of every crevice (Norfair) . 10/10
  Finally, the graphics. They were great. This is an example of how Wii can really look. They were 
 superior to other games on the same platform. The graphics made me feel I was actually there. 9.3/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: auronlb
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 23, 2009 1:48 pm PT
Review:  super smash bros brawl is a fighting mutiplayer kid game even tho its aimed for younger ppl (i 
 think) its still fun for all gamers its one of those games where wen theres nothing to do you have 
 a super smash bros brawl party and then somone gets mad and throws the wii mote at the tv..... anyways 
 back to the game its fun at first you wana play it and do the storyline which is fun but its not 
 a game where your gonna wanna play it over and over and over but it is a game worth buying i like 
 the people you can be on it they have snake on it which to me was cool i liked the music too its 
 intence the fighting buttons wit the wii mote and stuff isnt as bad as you think and its always 
 fun to knock a pokemon off the screen X] the power ups are fun the people that you can get like 
 (nentendog) are fun too and the stages are cool looking with all the colors 0.0 but the stage builder 
 on the other hand..... is a fail there isnt much you can use its just a little knick to put on the 
 game for wen your bored the pictures are fun cuz you can make diddy kong kiss anyone and i have 
 a picture of meta knight getting ran over by a hover car SWEETNESS but bsides that all the unlockables 
 are aonnying sumtimes and they dont give you much the coin shooting game is worthless i still dont 
 know why the put that on the not only do they have trophys but they have shinky dink stickers wow! 
 the game was much like the old one just new ppl and new knicks i mean its fun for i dont know a 
 month or two? i think they went over bored on the unlockables cuz you can unlock like 106409315 
 things its fun yeah but it isnt as fun as they make it sound i prefered super mario galaxy and 
 mario kart wii over this one so i give it a 8 outa 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emono
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2009 3:57 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Graphics: 10/10
  Characters: 9.8/10
  Story Mode: 10/10
  Overall: 9.9/10
  
  This game is yet another masterpiece from the geniuses 
 at Nintendo. 
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is an excellent example of what makes video gaming great. The game itself 
 is incredible from it's Gameplay to its sound all is incredible. The gameplay is incredibly old 
 school and it brang back my memories of the countless nights I spent with my friends playing 
 
  Super Smash Bros. Melee and the original Super Smash Bros. on Gamecube and N64. The Button mashing, 
 Control Stick smashing fun that made them classics have worked their magic here and have been mixed 
 in with a new generation of graphics which are quite a huge step up from the last game and the 
 sound also. The Characters included are a nice array and they come from game series from Mario 
 to Pikmin to Pokemon. The stages are also a nice group this time around. (Yay! Animal Crossing!) 
 The custom stage builder was a nice inclusion as well now that we can make our own stages I think 
 it may not be long until we can make a Brawler. I cannot wait for the next installment of the SSB 
 series. This is pretty much the best game I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zobi123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 7:29 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game for one reason umm uh OK maby a few more than one but lets start of with saying 
 it is a great game when you feel annoyed when the school bully gave you a wedgy today and you know 
 you cant beat him in a fight so you just bash R. O. B a few hundred times.
  
  Now this is a game filled with new characters like sonic the hedgehog who if you didnt know him 
 better you would think he was on steroids, then there is King dedede who you would say should lay 
 off the hamburgers for lets see... Forever, and also Snake who goes in his box so much you would 
 think he would have been killd by the recyclers more than in the game. But what all these characters 
 bring is variety like at a cruise buffe likeI will have the Pit for an apitiser Metaknight for 
 the main coarse and so kirby for dessert.
  
  Now the new thing about this game is the smash ball which does a final smash which almost always 
 kills your opponent like Mario fire wave, Sonic transforms into super sonic, Kirby... well lets 
 just say he is COOKING up a storm and finally the lamest thing you think you may ever hear or see 
 Jigglypuff's (you know it is lame if it has a name like that) "lets put air into myself and blow 
 it all out" move which unless you are a half wit noob you will never die from it.
  
  Now another thing new is the story mode of "the subspace emissary" which sounds like it came out 
 of star treks deleted scenes pile. It involves every character excpt 3 so if you dont like link 
 ... too bad you have to play as him, if ya dont like Ness... too bad you have to use him, if ya 
 dont lik jigglypuff then you are a lucky noob because you dont have to play as her. Anyway it involves 
 defeating the subspace army of wierd robots and creatures like you might find near where achmed 
 the dead terrorist and humfry bear go to the bar. Not to mension you fight bosses like raquaza 
 ( the creater of the names of pokemon should be sacked) porky and his weird robot spider pig and 
 the final boss tabuu who would be considered a streaker if he wasnt made of 1s and 0s.
  
  There are also lots of items like the beam sword which has been ripped of by star wars and the 
 bob ombs which if you dont pick them up and through them they get a mind of their own and walk 
 around aimlessly until they explode. and crates which unless you through them at people ( which 
 is very fun) through them at the ground and you will get items and lets say when it drops five 
 bob ombs it is really funny when someone shoots a laser at one and it causes a mass explosion giving 
 Ike 3rd degree burns if he isnt dead already.
  
  Now a great thing to do to pass the time is collect trophys by killing bosses completing challenges 
 and also doing coin shooter which gets the magority of them and let me just say that it would be 
 a better use of you coins by playing poker for trophys than aimlessly shooting you coins at stuff 
 you would only want to hit is you where in the US millitary or in area 51. But it is nice having 
 the satisfaction of knowing you have spent countless hours getting animated trophys or stickers.
 
  
  Also they have new modes like all star which you can only unlock buy playing 20 hours gettinng 
 every single character. but the game plays where you have to beat up everybody once and with only 
 a maximum five lives and in intence mode you will kill more enimys by pressing random buttons like 
 a rabbit monkey like diddy kong than to actually think. then there is challendes where they may 
 say kill 3 yoshi while the ship is airbourne or destroy giant DK and charizard or dance like a 
 chicken whill pikachu does the can can... well not really i made that one up.
  
  Then there is multiplayer to enjoy and trust me you will enjoy beating you noob neighboor who thinks 
 that a hit with a fan will be more painfull than having a crate thrown at you and thinks that Diddy 
 Kong would kill Marth without weapons. If you rather touneys or doing story together or even just 
 battling with random rules like making everyone metal with a flower on there head with 300% damage 
 which makes the game like a motor bike without brakes and a throdel so you dont go anywhere its 
 just not fun.
  
  This is a fun game which will give the average ten year old the fun they deserve unless they just 
 went joy riding and ran over Kate Perry then the deserve a cookie and Super smash brothers brawl. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiifun
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2009 9:55 am PT
Review:  Well, Super Smash Bros. came to Wii. Brawl is , with no doubt, the best games for your console. 
 Nintendo created this game for more hardcore players who likes classic Nintendo chraracters such 
 as Link and the brothers, Mario and Luigi.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are improved from the last in series, Melee. That's why it woths its score: 10/10. 
 
  
  Controls:
  The controls of the game is so many, so I will just tell them:
  1) Wii remote only
  2) Wii remote holding sideways
  3) Wii remote+Nunchuk
  4) Wii classic controller+ 
 wii mote
  5) Wii classic controller only
  6) Classic GameCube Controller.
  So you can see that you can choose through a variety of controller. It depends on which you prefer 
 playing.
  
  Gameplay:
  Brawl is a very prototype title launched for the first time on Nintendo 64, after on Nintendo Gamecube 
 and now on Nintendo Wii. This game is always been improving. The story is always the best pros 
 of this game.
  
  Overall:
  You should buy this game if you are a hardcore gamer and a Nintendo fan. You will be really amazed.
 
  
  Scores:
  
  Graphics: 9.5
  Controls: 10
  Gameplay: 10
  _____________________
  Total: 9.8333... --- 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JebranRush
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 7:14 pm PT
Review:  The Good: 
  Subspace Emissary mode is great, 
  packed with extras and unlockables, 
  tons of replay value, 
  lots of characters, 
  a very balanced combat system, 
  great graphics 
 both technically and artistically, 
  incredible audio, 
  online multiplayer, 
  stage builder, 
  the ability to send screenshots, replay data, and custom stages to friends and 
 to Nintendo
  
  The Bad: Online multiplayer is buggy most of the time
  
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is the successor to the hit Gamecube game, Super Smash Bros. Melee. That, 
 in turn, is a successor to the N64 hit original, Super Smash Bros. Over the ages, this chaotic 
 series has evolved a fair amount. The original had a small cast of 12 characters and a handful 
 of stages. Super Smash Bros. Melee expanded on that game with a larger roster of 25 characters, 
 several more stages, tons more unlockables, and an enhanced fighting system. Essentially, it was 
 still that 4 player mayhem that people had grown to like so much. Now, with Super Smash Bros. Brawl, 
 the game has improved and evolved further in so many great ways. This review will discuss the game's 
 improvements, faults, and other subjects of the game. 
  
  The core fighting mechanic is still the same, but it's rebalanced so that every character and player 
 has a fair chance at winning. The items and stage hazards help in making the game insane and fair 
 for everyone to play. Even so, you still have the choice of turning all items off and having a 
 flat stage where nothing happens so that players are able to show off their skills in a 1 on 1 
 match. The rebalanced gameplay is a vast improvement over Super Smash Bros. Melee. No longer do 
 a couple of characters reign supreme as the top characters. Every character is given their own 
 unique strengths and weaknesses. Although the same was for Melee, many characters were weaker than 
 others and couldn't compete sometimes, no matter how good you were. 
  
  Alongside the improved graphics, the audiovisuals part of the game are a major improvement and 
 it's clear that a lot of work went it them. The graphics are colourful and bright, with lots of 
 detail to characters and environments. The game is so successful, graphically, because of its masterful 
 collaboration of so many different art styles. As well, many of Super Smash Bros. Melee's glitches 
 are fixed so that unfair things don't happen.
  
  The audio is no slouch either. Hundreds of tunes and music come together from different game universes 
 and many are remixed or all new. You could buy this game simply as a soundtrack CD and you wouldn't 
 be disappointed. This part of the game is so incredibly done, and not surprisingly so because of 
 the several different game composers who have come together to make songs for this game. 
  
  The Super Smash Bros. series has always been best known for its incredible multiplayer. Super 
 Smash Bros. Brawl introduces online gameplay, for the first time in the series, and it's a great 
 addition. Even so, the online is also the weakest part of the game. "Basic Brawl", which randomly 
 pairs you up with three others so that you can have a blast playing, doesn't work as it should. 
 Due to issues of overcrowding with new players, this feature almost becomes non-functional and 
 broken. When it does work, however, it's a blast to play. But the Wi-Fi service is also a step 
 down from other Wi-Fi games. There are no leader boards, you can't add people from basic brawl 
 to your friends list, and accessibility issues plague the online. Despite these flaws, playing 
 with friends is well done. There is practically no lag and the options are very customizable. Playing 
 with friends who don't live close to you, however, can cause lag problems. There's also no voice 
 chat with friends. Overall, it's still a fun mode that makes the lasting appeal of this game even 
 longer.
  
  Keeping that in mind, there is a lot of unlockables and collectable items in this game that increase 
 the lasting appeal. Trophies and stickers are the collectable items in this game and they are amusing 
 to collect. As well, there is a "Challenges" window which gives you certain objectives to complete. 
 These objectives can range from completing classic mode with all characters to playing 30 hours 
 of Brawl! These challenges keep the game fresh and exciting. The rewards are usually rare trophies 
 or rare stickers. It's also possible to unlock new levels and music from the challenges. 
  
  Along with that, you can create your own stages as well! Using the stage builder tool, you 
 can use preset items to make your own stages. You can set the size of your stage, the background, 
 and what music plays there. You can also send these custom stages to friends or even submit them 
 to Nintendo! Along with sending these stages, you can also send replay data and screenshots you 
 have taken. Replay data can be recorded after every game you play, as long as it's less than 3 
 minutes. 
  
  One of the bigger additions to this game is the "Subspace Emissary" mode. This is an epic and cinematic 
 adventure platforming game which has an original plot. The cut-scenes are very well done and many 
 can be amusing. Others can be very epic and intense. All of this is achieved without any bit of 
 dialogue! The platforming in the game is done quite well. It's reminiscent to "Kirby Super Star" 
 on the SNES. This is probably due to the fact that Brawl was made by the same person who worked 
 on that game, Masahiro Sakurai. The Subspace Emissary has you traveling to different levels and 
 getting you to reach the end of it, as well as getting any secrets and hidden items. There are 
 some clever puzzles and many difficult battles that await you in this mode. You can set the difficulty 
 as well, so if you're new to the game, you can set it on easy mode. If you want a really difficult 
 challenge, you can set it to intense. This game mode, overall, is well done and a fun and lengthy 
 platforming game on its own right. 
  
  The control scheme, or control schemes, are all done well. There are four different methods of 
 control. These are: Wii Remote and Nunchuk, Wii Remote sideways, Gamecube controller, and the Classic 
 controller. These methods take little time to get used to and don't have much learning curve to 
 them. It's all fairly simple and well done. In the end, though, most players seem to have a tendency 
 to play using the Gamecube controller as it's the control method that's most familiar to Super 
 Smash Bros. Melee veterans.
  
  Overall, Super Smash Bros. Brawl does not disappoint. It's a fast-paced and hectic game that forces 
 split second decisions on you. The platforming game, "Subspace Emissary", is a great adventure 
 mode and is a lot of fun. Online multiplayer is a blast, but not without flaws. There are some 
 loading times in this game but they aren't much of an issue. With that all being said, Brawl is 
 a fabulous game with 35 unique characters to play as, 41 stages (including past Melee stages) , 
 and well over a thousand unlockables.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JyoMashima
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2009 1:21 am PT
Review:  Love the game, I'll start with that. All the olbies back (Could do without jigglypuff) and so may 
 new people joined up. The story mode is excellent with the nifty stickers to increase paramaters 
 in the game.
  
  My favorite thing is making new stages to play on. I really like to make those stages that annoy 
 the piss out of others, (Let's face it, it's fun to be a prick) The non-nintendo characters is 
 a great addition. granted it's a small list, but I hope to see others in future games. (Vectorman!)
 
  
  About the only thing that grinds me is the lack of a nintendo icon that should be there, but he 
 isn't. I of course speak of the little blue boy of doom. Megaman. Lets face it. Megaman and Zero 
 would be great additions.
  
  But I won't gripe much. These people have been evolving a great game and doing it very well. With 
 so many additions I'm amazed they even added as many people as they did. The game runs so much 
 more smoothly. The pick-ups are much more diverse and so much more interesting. The other modes 
 are a blast. And not many games beat this one when you have friends over.
  
  
  If you have a Wii and you don't have this game, you are cheating yourself out of something very 
 good in the gaming world. My advice, get it and play it as soon as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSNG300
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: With All new skills upgrades items Final Smash Assistant Trophys And More This Game Has 
 It All 
  
  
  
  Brawl: Stock Time And Coins New Characters like Sonic the hedgehog Toon Link and lots more and stages 
 are incredible all stages have their on twist except for final destination Yoshi island Lylat Cruise 
 Battlefield and smashville 
  
  
  
  Graphics: Just Right Not Too Over Done Nor Under Done Nice Job 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Wifi: Not 
 The Best But Still Enjoyable This Time in Wifi it actually tells you how good the connection is 
 The Connections 
  (Blue= The Best No Lag Possible unless bad connection
  Green=Good Might Be A Little Lag
  Yellow=In The Middle Lag Is possible without a doubt 
  Orange=Bad 
 Lag Will be there always
  Orangeish Red= Getting close to non enjoyable if 3 characters
  Red= Worst Bad Lag If 2 If 4 Players The Game Might Be a instant Disconnection Or Non-Enjoyable 
 Gameplay)
  Also your not available to use special brawl but still pretty nice 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Vault: Shows Replays Under 3 Mins Snapshots Masterpieces Even Play Demo's of the 
 virtual console games list of games For each system (Games Listed from Mar.9.2008) and trophys 
 and stickers 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  options: Wide screen full screen graphics data all thats here
  
  
  
  Data: Movies from subspace 
 Records from brawling and sound test
  
  
  
  
  Solo: Subspace Events Homerun contest and more i don't really think solo is all that good
  
 
  
  
  allaround: allaround this game is excellent and deserves the best it can get some mistakes here 
 and there but nothing can stop this series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jio-freed
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 2:52 pm PT
Review:  I am pleased with this game that nintendo made. I mean cool story ,fun multilayer, more characters, 
 etc.
  
  when i had bought this game i had expected nothing else but amazing gameplay and thats just what 
 I got.
  
  music is amazing over 250 songs + you will listen over and over again.
  
  camera- no issues hee other then some of the moving stages.
  
  wi-fi- unfortunately not the 
 best but you can live with it so the closer you are the better the signal. 
  
  Overall smash bros brawl is a great addition to the wii and hope for another one to come out on 
 the next nintendo console this is jio-freed signing off from reviews o and ps i try to get at least 
 one review everyday if possible but i may take a break now and again to relax also if you wish 
 to brawl me pm me if your in the area near Virginia ok thanks. have a nice day 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnknownRandom
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2009 8:40 pm PT
Review:  i was starting to think that the Wii was a waste of my money and time, but thankfully this game 
 turned out excellent
  
  this game, unlike a lot of games, ACTUALLY FELT LIKE the developers tried their best to leave the 
 game flawless, and, hell, they came pretty damn close
  This game is so close that i regret saying i had certain problems, because, now that i think about 
 it, the good things about the game out-weigh the problems
  
  OK, now that im done ranting on about how the game is one of the only good Wii games out there, 
 im going to explain the problems:
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  well, one problem is that i cant play my created stages online
  
  second, i cant chat with people online, which sucks, especially if you're playing with friends
 
  
  third, the characters seem very balanced, but it always seems that if a skilled player plays with 
 a fast character (even if the fast character is horrible in everything) that the skilled player 
 can win a lot easier than with a slow character. So, basically what im saying is, if the character 
 is fast, then those fast characters seem to have an advantage
  
  fourth, is that i would like to enhance my abilities with stickers and play online with those abilities. 
 This lets the player add a little bit of his/her costomization to the mix and might make the game 
 more fun because player will be on a pursuit of both enhancing their overall skills, but enhancing 
 their favorite character's abilities too. Now, by this, i dont mean making Wario faster than Sonic, 
 but make it so that we can change the stats a little bit, just to give the game an edge. (basically, 
 if they allow the stickers to be used out of story mode, it would match what i am trying to say)
 
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  alright, now for the benefits:
  
  one, the game has amazing fighting mechanics. This "throw your opponent out of the arena" seemed 
 to be wrong for a fighting game, but it turned out to be perfect. Everthing, down to the damage 
 percent ratio, seems very well thought out and it leaves an amazing degree of either simplistic 
 fun at a party, or a hardcore match versus two pros.
  
  two, the graphics seem to be running close to the Wii's limits, so what im saying is, it looks 
 just about as good as the Wii can allow (this game, and metroid prime: corruption)
  
  third, the speed
  everything in the game feels fast paced (except the long story)
  this means 
 that dodging attacks is easy and counter attacks is even easier
  
  fourth, the story
  the story wont win any awards for an amazing plot, but atleast you wont have trouble understanding 
 it
  plus, its long and immersive, so you wont even see time fly
  
  fifth, the online mode
  online on this game is fun and addictive
  AND it is practically lag 
 free
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  well, i think i made my point
  if you have a Wii, this is a title THAT YOU HAVE TO OWN
  oh!, and i think this game is best played on the "WAVEBIRD" or, a. k. a "the virtual console controller" 
 
  the wavebird really does help how you play (a tip to those serious enough to want to become pro)
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RICARDOROSA
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2009 11:29 am PT
Review:  As I was saying, SSBB is the best game ever made (yet, but it will survive for a long, long time) .
 
  Its multi-player mode is simply awesome, especially 'cause it may be played with anyone in planet 
 Earth. It's single player is also cool and keeps you entertained for a long while until you fully 
 complete it. The Subspace Emissary is a real improvement from the past "Adventure Mode". Some of 
 the characters like Mario and Link are simply amazing and they can't be taken of SSB series, and 
 the newcomers like Ike and Metaknight kick ass like hell! The graphics are too neat and have improved 
 many characters' looks. The innovating Custom Stages is something that's very, but VERY rarely 
 seen in a fighting game (if not the only) , the only pitiful thing is that you can't use it in online 
 matches (but that doesn't take SSBB's 10 score) . Speaking of online matches, their the coolest 
 thing ever made 'cause you can make friends, spend a lot of time brawling and team up with friends 
 or foes, known or unknown people.
  Summary - This is a great multiplayer game and will occupy a lot if days of your life, in the good 
 way! And who's not buying the game, is making THE biggest mistake in his/her life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legolas1204
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 4:35 pm PT
Review:  worth the wait and is really easy. I could finish the game in less than 2 weeks. This might be 
 one of the best games on the wii. I currently had to wait along time t buy this. First:
  * The story play is a awesome * I think they should have made more rules/ special rules 2.
  * 
 stadium creator is ok. Need more function block.
  * Personally I liked the characters in this game. * I really miss young link.
  * The wifi is 
 a true improvement.
  * Why did they create zero suit samus?
  * Finally I will give some thoughts on sbm. a small look back
  1. Very intense game.
  2. Young 
 link is the best.
  3. IDK why they didn't keep all the stages from sbm and put them in ssbb. 4. Stages were totally 
 awesome SSBB RULES!
  
  Why don't they create another one with every stage. Also It should include EVERY character. Now 
 that is a great idea 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RabidBurp
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2009 3:10 am PT
Review:  Smash Veterans will find the latest installment in the Smash Bros. lineup more than they could 
 ever hope for. 
  
  Mario, Donkey Kong, Kirby, Fox, Samus and the rest of the gang return to one of the most successful 
 Nintendo franchises to date. Unlockable favorites also return, but with a few disappointing omissions. 
 Veterans and Newcomers alike will be delighted to discover unexpected additions such as Meta Knight, 
 Captain Olimar, Metal Gear's Solid Snake and even SEGA's Sonic the Hedgehog, all with their own 
 unique flavors and fighting styles.
  
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is a massive step up from its predecessor in everything from its gorgeous 
 graphics to its highly improved game mechanics and expanded game modes. The Subspace Emissary alone 
 will hook line and sink you for hours at a time. The replay value is next to infinite, as you will 
 learn a new little trick, glitch, combo or technique nearly every time you turn the game on.
  
  One of Brawl's more redeeming traits is its highly satisfying WiFi mode. You can exchange Friend 
 Codes with your buddies and jump right into the fray, or you can challenge unknown opponents from 
 around the world to put your skills to the ultimate test. However, you'll find yourself in the 
 middle of lag-laden matches more often than you'd like, and the connection quality between your 
 friends will change every so often (for better or worse) .
  
  Fans will also discover that the Home Run Contest, Target Test, and other familiar modes from Melee 
 make their triumphant returns with dramatically improved changes. Brand new additions like the 
 amusing Coin Launcher mini game and Custom Stage Builder are the icing on the otherwise perfect 
 cake.
  
  There is also a Replay function that lets you record matches up to 3 minutes in length and send 
 them to your friends or straight to the Nintendo message board to show off your best target smashing 
 score or some of your ultimate character combos.
  
  All in all, Super Smash Bros. Brawl is worth every penny of its retail price and makes a superb 
 addition to any Wii owner's game collection. It is truly a masterpiece that will have you brawling 
 for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tolliver_leon
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2009 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl is the sweetest nintendo game iv played. Im still playing it today. it has 
 custom battles, custom levels, huge character roster, huge level roster, everything a unique fighting 
 game needs to have. the game also is a time-killer, willing to make you spend alot of time on the 
 game. The multiplayer is very addictive and the Final Smashes are majorly cool. Items like Pokeballs 
 and Assist Trophies sent out some guy who helps you smash your opponent of the screen are very 
 useful. My favorite character overall is between toon link, who has a vairity of long ranged attacks, 
 and pikachu, who is very quick and can easily get out of situations. the only complaint i can give 
 is the online gameplay, which couldve been better if it was easier to search for an opponent
  overall, this game is a cool, sweet, unique game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reyace
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2009 11:07 am PT
Review:  like i said, its one of the best fighting games i played. The character selections, stage selections, online 
 play is massivly great! I like the graphic and gameplay of the game if you were to ask me. One of 
 my favorite things in the game is the character selections. Ike, link, and mario are my fav. characters. One 
 of the most anticipating things in the game is the final smashes for each person. its wild and 
 fun to use them especially to make people mad. I enjoy the repititve battles that i can play with 
 my friends or just me and other com characters. melee was also another good classic fighting game. Hopefully 
 they will make a 3rd super smash bros to keep on the saga. The music selection is also a fresh 
 remix of the nintendo history. molgera battle music gets your metabolisn going. (your mind) the hardest 
 part of the game is being boss battle on intense. Thankfully, i know how to beat it and i already 
 have. use meta knight in boss battle. I dont have much to say about the game but all i can say that 
 it is awesome!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddenrulz
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2009 1:06 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Melee was the best Gamecube game by far. Its follow up, Super Smash Bros. Brawl, 
 is the best game released on the Wii by far, as well.
  
  The quality of the gameplay is outstanding. The amount of characters that are avalible are ridiculous, 
 but very good. The stages are, head and shoulders, the best out of the series so far. The people 
 at Nintendo will have a very hard time trying to top this game.
  
  The characters are the same from last year, but they've added in more characters, which is very 
 good for the game. They have replaced some of the characters abilities and put in even better ones 
 to make brawling much more competitive.
  
  The stages are really good. The effects that the stages have on characters are quite good. Even 
 better, you can create your own stages and get your friends to versus you on them (giving you the 
 upper hand, but providing much more fun) .
  
  Everyone will be talking about the weapons and what they do. The new weapons make the same impact 
 as the weapons from SSBM. But the big one is the Final Smash Attack. It is a game-changer if ever 
 I saw one. I have been overwhelmed by the amount of people complaining about losing because of 
 that attack, but then boasting about WINNING with it.
  
  This game ranges for every age, no matter what your skill level is in this (or the previous two) 
 game. If your like fighting it out with your mates and you want a memorable fight, this game is 
 for you and every other gamer out there in the world. If you don't like this game, you need serious 
 psychiatric help. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tedhlfc4life
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 5:05 am PT
Review:  This game is probably the most random game i have ever played it has nintendo's most famous and 
 recognisable characters and lads like snake and sonic who dont belong to nintendo but have had 
 game on nintendo consoles.
  
  The story mode is called the subspace emissary the most dissapointing thing about this is that 
 there are no voices the good about this is that you can pick anyone you want before the level.
 
  
  
  There are other good modes on this game like classic mode and challenge mode in classic mode you 
 beat person after person for about 10 - 12 fights. challenge mode seems never ending everytime you 
 do a set they give you more challenges to do.
  
  
  The game offers you over 30 characters and loads of new stages and melee stages you can also create 
 your own stages which is easy and deadly. you can also save replays and take pictures of events 
 and fights that you do.
  
  Overall i think this is a unreal game with lots of characters, stages and great multiplayer 9.5/10. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameking5000
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2009 9:45 pm PT
Review:  What can I say? This is unrivalled and you would be coming back for more. You'll want to buy this 
 game or you'll regret, believe me this is no ordinary game. The Single-Player game, no that's not 
 right, the Single/Multiplayer Game is amazing. It should take about 10-15 hours of gameplay. Remeber 
 another person can play also.
  
  The Subspace Emissary: This is really a game in a game that is quite addicting and will last about 
 10 hours. Try to save the world from Subspace as the Nintendo characters join together to save 
 Subspace against the evil Tabu. This is the main reason why I gave this game 10/10.
  
  Online Multiplayer: Although many people rate this area reasonably low, I believe it still is fantastic 
 although there can be some improvements. Nevertheless it's even more enjoyable to think that your 
 playing a human player. There are more features once you have a friend to play with, but however, 
 you have to rely on a different source to get friends.
  
  The rest: This is why I've played over 100 hours. The many features to do once you've completed 
 the Subspace Emissary will not make it boring. It is a fun part and you can unlock more and do 
 many other things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolidSnake52
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2009 10:07 am PT
Review:  This is my first review.... And its on Super Smash Bros Brawl. It's a good game but it has like 
 tiny flaws not even flaws just like how if your online then if somebody disconnects during a fight 
 it freezes i think it should be like other games like when someone disconnects it should just say 
 that. And another thing about online play is it doesn't show wins or losses like my friend came 
 over "ya man beat you in brawl the other day" i say"uhhhhh no you didn't let me check" so i go 
 check and nothings there! do you guys also agree in subspace the great maze took a little to long 
 for just a simple 3-D platformer because i do it took me like 4 hours to beat! and so the main 
 point on brawl is if you own a wii, love fighting games (not to mention adventure fighting) and 
 nintendo characters (it's ok snake & sonic you may not be from nintendo but we still love you) but 
 still THIS IS A GAME TO BUY!
  
  
  Graphics. 9/10
  Characters. 9.5/10
  Arenas. 8.5/10 (Not including stage builder.)
  Other game modes (SSE, Events, Coin launcher, etc,) 
 8.7/10
  
  The game it's self. 9.0/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerseynut2004
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2009 12:01 pm PT
Review:  The super smash bros series is undeniably great, but after melee there was some question as to 
 how to create a sequel that gamers will enjoy more. Well, Nintendo came up HUGE. It has a whopping 
 35 characters from the realm of Nintendo AND beyond, and 41 stages to battle on, including favorites 
 from Melee 'Corneria' and 'Hyrule Temple'! As soon as you start, you become immersed in the game. 
 It doesn't matter if you're a beginner or a veteran, Brawl keeps you entertained. There's no better 
 feeling than KOing your opponent with a smash attack with 1 life left and 89%. Not only is the 
 award winning multi-player back online and offline, but an amazing one player adventure mode can 
 keep you busy for hours upon hours upon hours. As with Ocarina of Time, this game is going to be 
 talked about for decades, so pick up your copy and enjoy the taste of perfection, courtesy of Nintendo. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skjoett
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 9:04 am PT
Review:  Supersmashbrothers. Brawl is a very good game, because all the many charecters and stages, and a 
 lot of modes. I think the best modes is singel and Brawl. The adventure mode (subspace emissary) 
 is special this time, its a half long adventure, where allmost all the charecters exept some of 
 them, but the story works and its good, The subspace emissary make hole the game longer and make 
 it feel like two games. And Brawl mode is just fun, because its funny to fight in all the stages, 
 there are all the many new stages, there are some of the stages from Melee. And the stages you 
 can make by yourself or with friends. And there are many stages and charecters to open. There are 
 also many other very good modes. There are: 
  Group
  Solo
  Vault
  Options
  Nintendo Wi-Fi mode.
  This time is the way you get trophies is to play coin launcher. That 
 means its not lottery more, this time you must shot with a kind of a gun, there shots with coins 
 (as you have get in fightes) . You must shot the trophies there fly over the kind of coin launcher 
 board. See much more things at 
  www. smashbros. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lew417sp
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2009 9:13 pm PT
Review:  You pick up the controller, and without doubt you know that you have just purchased the Best Game 
 in the world! With a Smashing Title Screen and More Smashing Features You Are Just blown away by 
 it! From the start of the game You have a Great Amount Of features to access, Like Instant Brawl. 
 And 1P Adventure. You'll be so addicted that you forget Negative Points. In Brawl mode You have 
 a number of features to adjust to make it right for you, Like Stock mode, time limit and Coin Collector. 
 In the 1P Adventure it doesn't have to be Just one person in Adventure Mode You can Now go 2P for 
 a more exciting Experience. But that's Not even The half of it! You can Take Snapshots Play Classic 
 demos review Nintendo History and Even Listen to Music and sound effects from The Game, How sweet 
 is That! And a Brand New feature in the Vault Section... Stage Builder lets you make your own stage 
 for the game placing platforms and conveyor belts plus Add your favorite Music And you have your 
 own Stage. But the features aren't the only thing that make this game so Great. The Game play consists 
 of you picking your favorite character and Fighting each other as that character each with a different 
 set of moves. Not only that but the Graphics are TOP NOTCH. As you progress through the game you 
 obtain trophies and Extended Rules, And even New Characters! Inspired From It's Previous Versions 
 SSBM And Smash Bros, This title far surpasses any other Game ever Created. Making this an all out 
 Excellent Title for the Wii. Nintendo Knows The gamers Best! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stalpno
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 6:48 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game for one reason umm uh OK maby a few more than one but lets start of with saying 
 it is a great game when you feel annoyed when the school bully gave you a wedgy today and you know 
 you cant beat him in a fight so you just bash R. O. B a few hundred times.
  
  Now this is a game filled with new characters like sonic the hedgehog who if you didnt know him 
 better you would think he was on steroids, then there is King dedede who you would say should lay 
 off the hamburgers for lets see... Forever, and also Snake who goes in his box so much you would 
 think he would have been killd by the recyclers more than in the game. But what all these characters 
 bring is variety like at a cruise buffe likeI will have the Pit for an apitiser Metaknight for 
 the main coarse and so kirby for dessert.
  
  Now the new thing about this game is the smash ball which does a final smash which almost always 
 kills your opponent like Mario fire wave, Sonic transforms into super sonic, Kirby... well lets 
 just say he is COOKING up a storm and finally the lamest thing you think you may ever hear or see 
 Jigglypuff's (you know it is lame if it has a name like that) "lets put air into myself and blow 
 it all out" move which unless you are a half wit noob you will never die from it.
  
  Now another thing new is the story mode of "the subspace emissary" which sounds like it came out 
 of star treks deleted scenes pile. It involves every character excpt 3 so if you dont like link 
 ... too bad you have to play as him, if ya dont like Ness... too bad you have to use him, if ya 
 dont lik jigglypuff then you are a lucky noob because you dont have to play as her. Anyway it involves 
 defeating the subspace army of wierd robots and creatures like you might find near where achmed 
 the dead terrorist and humfry bear go to the bar. Not to mension you fight bosses like raquaza 
 ( the creater of the names of pokemon should be sacked) porky and his weird robot spider pig and 
 the final boss tabuu who would be considered a streaker if he wasnt made of 1s and 0s.
  
  There are also lots of items like the beam sword which has been ripped of by star wars and the 
 bob ombs which if you dont pick them up and through them they get a mind of their own and walk 
 around aimlessly until they explode. and crates which unless you through them at people ( which 
 is very fun) through them at the ground and you will get items and lets say when it drops five 
 bob ombs it is really funny when someone shoots a laser at one and it causes a mass explosion giving 
 Ike 3rd degree burns if he isnt dead already.
  
  Now a great thing to do to pass the time is collect trophys by killing bosses completing challenges 
 and also doing coin shooter which gets the magority of them and let me just say that it would be 
 a better use of you coins by playing poker for trophys than aimlessly shooting you coins at stuff 
 you would only want to hit is you where in the US millitary or in area 51. But it is nice having 
 the satisfaction of knowing you have spent countless hours getting animated trophys or stickers.
 
  
  Also they have new modes like all star which you can only unlock buy playing 20 hours gettinng 
 every single character. but the game plays where you have to beat up everybody once and with only 
 a maximum five lives and in intence mode you will kill more enimys by pressing random buttons like 
 a rabbit monkey like diddy kong than to actually think. then there is challendes where they may 
 say kill 3 yoshi while the ship is airbourne or destroy giant DK and charizard or dance like a 
 chicken whill pikachu does the can can... well not really i made that one up.
  
  Then there is multiplayer to enjoy and trust me you will enjoy beating you noob neighboor who thinks 
 that a hit with a fan will be more painfull than having a crate thrown at you and thinks that Diddy 
 Kong would kill Marth without weapons. If you rather touneys or doing story together or even just 
 battling with random rules like making everyone metal with a flower on there head with 300% damage 
 which makes the game like a motor bike without brakes and a throdel so you dont go anywhere its 
 just not fun.
  
  This is a fun game which will give the average ten year old the fun they deserve unless they just 
 went joy riding and ran over Kate Perry then the deserve a cookie and Super smash brothers brawl. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Th3rdWiiBro
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2009 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Brothers has a huge history. I've played only the first and original on the N64 and 
 this one. Big improvement, of course.. moving up a whole century you would hope for. The character 
 roster improved from 12 to, well, I don't even know, they have every character imaginable, with 
 no twins included except for toon link.
  The maps are a certain point I want to focus on. Everyone's review touches on game play and characters 
 and final smashes, so I'll stick with graphics. Now, being 13, I've seen the best of best. The 
 Wii hasn't offered and stellar graphics, even this game doesn't have amazing graphics. But it does 
 give awesome detail. Every map is interactive and proposes a challenge. You will love some maps 
 and hate others. For me I can not stand the scrolling maps where you have to follow the camera, 
 I find it annoying when I should be focusing on kicking my opponent of the screen. The maps are 
 crazy good with effects and I may have said not stellar graphics but they put a lot of time into 
 this game as you can tell and graphics easily get a 10/10. 
  I've made this review in a rush and it can be confusing. Things that stand out are the graphics, 
 game play, and of course all the games you can play and adjust. This game rocks my socks. And it 
 is a Th3rdWiiBro must buy game. Cheers! =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AngryBeaver9
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2009 12:56 am PT
Review:  Super smash brothers brawl (ssbb) is a 2d action packed fighting game using characters from the 
 nintendo franchise, such as mario & luigi with a few additions such as sonic and snake from metal 
 gear solid. The main aim of the game is to inflict damage on your oponnent using items and your 
 unique moves until their health becomes low and you smash them of the screen giving you a (kill) . 
 Super Smash brothers brawl is a sequal to the previous game super smash brothers melee for the 
 gamecube. It has a majority of differences and has improved in everyway possible. over around 37 
 characters are available and around 42 stages including a costum stage biulder. Only 14 characters 
 are available at the start of the game, the other characters must be unlocked. The easiest way 
 to unlock characters is to play the main mode of the game, the subspace emissary. it is a side 
 scrolling adventure wich proves to be quiet easy as i have completed it twice on the hard difficulty 
 setting. SSBB is wifi compatible, but dont get to exited as the wii's internet problems really 
 stand out whilst playing online. The game frequently freezes and it takes for ever to find other 
 players. There is also no leaderbored of scores and no data is kept of the amount of wins or kills 
 you get. The best mode of this game is by far the multiplayer mode. You can costimise the way you 
 want to play in almost anyway including the amount of items that fall or if you wwant everyone 
 on the stage to be huge or tiny. To explain every detail of this game would be imposiblle in one 
 review, but if you own a wii i definently recommend buying or hiring this game and if you dont 
 have a wii buy one and get this game :) 
  thanx for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enViable
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 7:50 am PT
Review:  How long has it been since we've had a platformer of this calibre? I'd go as far as saying it was 
 the days of Genesis and Snes...
  
  I picked up this game a week or so ago off a friend not knowing what to expect at all and I was 
 pleasently surprised. Colourful graphics, well placed light flickers and loud arcade type sounds 
 bring the memories of good time gaming flooding back.
  
  The graphics have been done by accepting the Wii's limitations and going with the cartoon style 
 sprites which works a treat, the sounds and lighting make you really feel the impact when you take 
 Kirby's sledgehammer to Charizards skull or when your punching Peach with Donkey Kong's giant hairy 
 fist.
  
  The game offers plenty of modes to keep gamers coming back a little more and the online mode isn't 
 to shabby either. A lack of online records is a let down and the 2 player co-op can just be a downright 
 pain in the arse with losing each other every few seconds and player 1 taking command (shades of 
 Sonic 2) but otherwise this game is pretty unflawed.
  
  A good array of characters, good selection of levels and modes, a storyline that makes NO sense 
 whatsoever (or at least... I was lost) and a colourful layout.
  
  Better than I thought, I've still got many hours left to give
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game-Review
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 11:33 am PT
Review:  I received this game as a gift from a relative; I expected it to be one of those run of the mill 
 button mashers. Boy, was I wrong; Smash Bros. Brawl continues the series with perhaps the best 
 one yet. Multiple modes such as the original "Classic"; the Adventure mode, which has beautifully 
 designed levels and well-thought out puzzles, as well as challenging bosses that will keep even 
 the most seasoned gamer with it un-till the final cut-scene. Brawl mode, found in the "Group" category, 
 is basically the free play, where you pick the conditions, playing field, the opponents, etc. There 
 are many different, unique stages, each with its own strange and interesting events that can occur. 
 There are many characters from previous Nintendo masterpieces. There's even a mode called "Masterpieces" 
 which allows you to play free trials of the classic adventures of Mario, Pit, and more as you unlock 
 them from playing Brawl. As you can see, Brawl has something for everyone, so be sure to check 
 it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: njfire
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Many more characters were added in SSBB, however there are also many characters that were taken 
 out such as pichu, roy, mewtwo, Dr. Mario, and daisy. Which most of these characters are duplicates 
 of others or they were just replaced with a newer character from their game, such as.... mewtwo 
 who was replaced with lucario and roy who was replaced with Ike. 
  The "Final Smash Move" was a great addition that really made a change to this game. Also, the custom 
 stage feature and other features such as, extra rules, more options, and subspace emissary were 
 great additions. Even though the "Subspace Emissary" is stupid after the first 60%.
  The downfall is the online play because you can't play with your custom stages and you can't pick 
 whether you want time or stock and how many stock you want. However, at least there is some type 
 of online play.
  
  Graphics:8/10
  
  controls: 10/10: there are many options such as: whether you want to use the wii remote with the 
 nunchuk or with the nunchuk or the gamecube controller.
  
  Replay Value:10/10
  
  Sound:10/10: the music is a great feature. As you go through the game you will continue to unlock 
 more music.
  
  Playability: 10/10 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evilhen88
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2009 12:57 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl Is one of the best wii games out to date. it has great game play, excellent 
 3D graphics, competitive multiplayer with co-op, team death match and more, lots of modes to brawl 
 in you can have time fights where you set a time limit, live fights where every player gets a set 
 amount of lives and coin fights where when you hit a opponent money comes out of them so your not 
 only trying to K. O. them but also pick up the money they dropped after them. All of them can be 
 done in teams as well so you can fight with a robot or a friend. there are also lots of items like 
 time bombs which can be used to change the outcome of the game.
  
  There are lots of characters some you might not have ever heard of all with different abilities 
 and attacks. There are also lots of different places to fight which are all special with hidden 
 traps and things like one level you can get run over by a car if you go on the road.
  
  There is also the feature to play old games like the old mario games which can be played with the 
 wii remote but some can only be played with the gamecube controller.
  
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl has had a lot of hard work put in to it and you would be wasting money 
 not to buy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Greatness
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 19, 2009 12:37 pm PT
Review:  
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is the third game in the Super Smash Bros. Series. Super Smash Bros. has 
 been a very popular and fun game over the years the first edition was played on the N64 and Super 
 Smash Bros Melee was played on the Game Cube. So you might ask yourself how well will this amazing 
 classic do on the wii? 
  Like the past games there are many characters you can play as. On Super Smash Bros. Brawl these 
 characters include: Mario, Luigi, Samus, Lucario, Pit, Fox, R. O. B etc. You can also unlock Sonic 
 and Snake. There are many characters to choose from so you will not be bored picking the same characters 
 over and over and over again. 
  The game play is very well laid out. There are many different types of controls you can use which 
 include: The wiimote and nunchuck (From many people's views the easiest way to control your character.) 
 The wiimote by itself, the wii classic controller and the game cube controller. Using the wiimote 
 and nunchuck as an example of game play, you use the nunchuck to make your character run; you use 
 the C button (or the right button on the D-pad.) To make your character jump. You can do a double 
 jump to stop you going off the stage when you are in mid air. The A button is used to attack your 
 opponent, the B button is used to do a special move (e. g. when Meta Knight makes a tornado which 
 inflicts a lot of percentage. Percentage shall be explained later.) However characters have more 
 than one special move push the B button and toggle either up, right, left or down on the nunchuck 
 and different special moves shall be used. You can also hold down A than toggle either up, down, 
 right or left and your character will do a super powerful punch. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl you 
 also get final smash balls and if your character manages to smash it your character has the ability 
 to do a super powerful move. You will know if your character has smashed the ball because he/she 
 will be glowing. Hold down B and you will eventually use the move. (An example of a final smash 
 move is when yoshi grows wings and breaths fire.) This final smash move is a really handy feature 
 because it can get you back into the match when you dought you are going to do well in the match. 
 
  Instead of H. P in Super Smash Bros. Brawl you get a percentage, the higher your percentage is the 
 more likely it is you will be knocked off the stage. Many prefer this to H. P because you will not 
 die suddenly like games with H. P using the percentage system gives you a chance to stay on the 
 stage and fight. 
  On multiplayer you can play with up to 4 people at a time. This game is much better playing with 
 friends then just playing alone because with friends you can there is an atmosphere in the room. 
 You know if they are exited, you know if they are determined to win, you know how they feel when 
 you are playing with them and you can communicate with each other. 
  On Super Smash Bros Brawl. You can play over the internet via Nintendo WI-FI connection. You can 
 play a normal battle, a team battle, play with your friends. (You have a friend code and so do 
 others that go on line if people add you and you add them they will become your friends.) Playing 
 random people is alright but after several matches you get bored of it. 
  There is an adventure mode on Super Smash Bros. Brawl called the Sub Space Emissary. The adventure 
 mode is quite short and does not take long to complete For Hard Core Gamers they could of made 
 the adventure mode much longer and much harder. The hardest level on The Sub Space emissary being 
 The Great Maze which is also the last level on The Sub Space Emissary. There is a feature called 
 the vault on Super Smash Bros. Brawl. On this you can play mini-games including: Target Smash when 
 you have to break targets in a certain amount of time, there is one when you have to hit a sack 
 with a bat and see how many meters it goes, There is a place where you keep all your hard earned 
 trophies which is a good place to look at and relax. There is a sticker book; you can put all the 
 stickers you earned on it. You can even make your own stages which you can send to your friends 
 and play on. 
  So in a nutshell this is Super Smash Bros. Brawl. An excellent fighting game with many Nintendo 
 characters and modes to play on. The game play is excellent when you use the wiimote and nunchuck 
 and multiplayer is really good because you can play with your friends. Internet play is decent 
 but can get boring after several rounds of playing random people. So Nintendo have done it. They 
 managed to make a superb Super Smash Bros. Game on the wii and they have not spoiled it one bit.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kerushii
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 10:59 pm PT
Review:  Smash Bros with a story line. Wow. It was a lot of fun to go through the levels and some of the 
 cut scenes were hilarious as well. 
  
  The multiplayer aspect is of course where the majority of the fun comes from. Competing with friends 
 in several different types of battles with a wide range of characters and stages is very entertaining. 
 Supper-sudden-death and lightening matches are lots of fun. The fight for reaching the smash ball 
 first is always interesting to participate in. 
  
  Compared to SSBM though, i would say that the controls are a little different. I'm not quite sure 
 how to explain what i mean besides saying that the characters in Brawl are more... floaty. This 
 takes a while to get used to and I personally do not like it as much. Also, with the loss of a 
 few characters from Melee, some gamers might feel displaced as the character they played with could 
 be missing. (the game never felt quite right to me as Roy was missing =\ )
  
  Overall, a really great game that anyone who regularly has people over to their house should have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grim_Heaper94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 12:02 pm PT
Review:  After months of delays I finally got my hands on Brawl and all I could say was "Wow!" This game 
 has so much to do it isn't even funny.
  The single player Subspace-Emissary mode is much better than I expected.
  It plays much like 
 th beat-em-up platformer Viewtiful Joe. You move a 3-d
  character through a 2-d world beating up bad guys and solving occasional
  find-the-switch open-the 
 -door puzzles. Next up is the main event, Brawl.
  It plays much like melee with a few tweaks in the formula such as new items
  and a few techniques 
 such as the footstool jump thrown into the mix. So
  obviously you'll have a real good time playing it. There is also a slew of extra modes ranging 
 from "Target Test" to "Event Mode" which add to the games longevity. Collecting all of the trophies 
 and stickers can keep you busy for a long time. So if you want to get your moneys worth this is 
 the game to get.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex6792
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 7:15 pm PT
Review:  one of the best on the period. while the single player lacks somewhat, the multilayer is where the 
 game really shines. its has a wide variety of modes, and even playing a regular stock or time match 
 is fun. the graphics are some of the best on the system right now, a real step up from the previous 
 incarnation, melee. one of the few things i didn't like was the online. i found it underwhelming. friends 
 codes had to be used for a start and even then its basically like playing local multilayer, but 
 with lag. for some lag is not an issue, but its underwhelming nonetheless. there are no leader boards, ranks, no 
 tournaments..... its very bare bones. as you can probably tell this a game to be played with friends..... lots 
 and lots of friends, preferably locally since you get to play together and interact (note-4 player 
 sudden death is FUN, lots of ..... well you'll see) =] . overall a great game, its a MUST for any wii 
 gamer out there, hope to see you online (maybe) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Potter104105
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2009 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Any body who has ever played any super smash bros games wold agry that this game is one of the 
 funnest games to play with friends. The multyplayer it the best thing about it. The online Multiplayer 
 is just as fun, but it lags some. 
  
  There are many different game modes and activities to do aswell. There is an adventure mode, and 
 you can play co-op or solo, but its not quite as fun as the multyplayer. And of course there is 
 classic mode, where you fight youre way through brawls with any charachter of youre choice untill 
 you reach the boss, THE MASTER HAND! There are also different mini chalenges that you can do.
 
  
  There are very many different charachters to chose from in this game. There are around 30 different 
 players to unlock. I think you start off with around 10 - 15 charachters and you can unlock all 
 of the other ones by doing different chalenges or just geting farther in adventure mode
  
  There is a "vault" in the game where you can save trofies, stickers, picures taken by you when 
 playing, and you can even create and save youre own arena to fight in!
  
  You can use the Wii remote with the nunchuck, the wii remote by its self, a gamecube controller, 
 or a clasic controller. unfortunatly there is no pointing of the wii remote in this game.
  
  This game is a real classic and any owner of a Wii should go get one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pwnage-sama
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 8:07 pm PT
Review:  When you think first think of Super Smash Bros. Brawl, the first thing that comes to mind is probably 
 "Is it gonna be better than Melee, or is it gonna be crap?" Well, Brawl is everything you want 
 Melee to be and a whole lot more. The biggest addition is probably the Subspace Emissary. It's 
 the story mode of the game, I must say that it is fun when played alone, and much more fun when 
 played with a friend. Aside from being fun, it's also a much more ideal way to play for unlocking 
 new characters, since I don't really think finishing Classic mode a gazillion times just to unlock 
 the character you want is all that fun. Multiplayer is awesome! The stages are great, and the option 
 to customize almost everything is just fantastic. Controls are simple, which is good, they are 
 very easy to get used to. Wi-Fi's a little disappointing, though. It lags a lot, I don't know if 
 it's my connection that's wrong or it's simple not that great. Overall, this game is great, a must 
 buy. This is the kind of stuff that you must have out when your friends come over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: okedoke682
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2009 7:30 pm PT
Review:  I have to say... this is the most amazing game for the wii. First, more than 35 characters to choose 
 from is great and I loved how sonic was made into the game he fitted in there perfectly. I liked 
 how wario had different costumes to pick from. Another stunning thing is the music. All the music 
 is from games that the characters are from and some were made just for the game. But the thing 
 that moved me the most was the story mode. It was long and hard and thats what a real game needs. 
 The boss fights were so cool, too. fighting rayquaza and tabo were the best boss battles in my 
 opinion. And the trophies and stickers were great. Giving you power ups in SSE made me want to 
 play it even more! The trophies made me want to play the game even more because I just had the 
 urge to get them all! Overall I think this game is a true Masterpiece.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: z827
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Despite the cartoonish characters and the non-serious look to it, the game can actually get rather 
 exciting at times. The system is also rather unique, you do not "kill" your enemies but you have 
 to knock them out of the ring. The characters, most of them are cartoonish but if you prefer the 
 "cool characters" type you won't be disappointed. You can play as characters such as Ike or Marth 
 or Link, they look much more serious than your Mario. There is also different rules you can set for 
 the match and in special brawl mode you can set rules such as making you smaller or bigger. You'll 
 also find out that different characters are rather different in their own ways. Such as slow but 
 powerful attacks or rapid but not so efficient attacks and some of them can fly though for a limited 
 distance. There are also different items that may appear on the battlefield for you to pick up or 
 smash. The downside of the game is probably the  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kadracor
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2009 2:27 pm PT
Review:  the first thing is first SUBSPACE EMMISARY: awesome storyline, Hell cutscenes, Crazy bosses, the 
 only downside is that WOLF is Not in the story.
  
  Second Multiplayer: the best multiplayer ever, even if you ha ve only 1 friend or family playing 
 with you and the others are cpu's you will feel worthy of playing even if you are playing alone 
 it is awesome so this is the funnest multiplayer you'l ever found on the wii and there is tons 
 of other stuff to do to in group.
  
  
  Third SOLO: solo is tons of fun such as classic, all star, and my favorite boss. since i already 
 told my opinion on subspace emmisary, i will start will all of them combined. classic: awesome 
 but when you beat it with at least 10 characters it will get boring, all star: all star is choose 
 a character & beat tons of other characters what could be more fun than that? simple boss battles!!!: 
 boss battles is like all star but more fun & it will help you with the bosses in SSE. THNX FOR 
 READIN :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Donkey_Face
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2009 1:54 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games of all times! You never get tired of it because there's so much things to 
 do. You can build awsome levels, fight online, (if your up for a chalenge) play the story mode, 
 and so many other exciting things. The characters are all pretty fun to try out. Snake is probaly 
 the most unique character. The story mode (Sub Space Imitionary) is very fun with a great story. 
 You get to see whats happening to each character during the story and fight as them against their 
 foes. The only boring part of story mode is the maze because you have to repeat levels you've already 
 beaten again. Fighting online (if you have online) is fun and challenging. You can fight by yoursef 
 or on a team. You can also play multiplayer online. If your tired of fight you can wach other online 
 players fight. The downside of the online is that while your fighting it sometimes freezes for 
 5 or 10 seconds which can get pretty annoying. Building levels is fun especailly when your tired 
 of the main ones. You start off with basic pieces but you can unlock more. Stage builder is easy 
 to use. The bad thing about stage builder is you have a limited building amount. Over all a really 
 good game and if you don't have it, GET IT! because your missing out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zimbazapper
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Super smash bos is back for the third time. Brawl has more characters, more items etc. Classic mode 
 hasen't changed much except they've removed race to the finish and snag trpohies. Also, classic mode 
 is kind of fixed. Stage 1 is always someone from The legend of Zelda and stage 2 always has something 
 to do with Yoshi, DK, and Diddy. But not all the stages are like that though. Adventure mode has become 
 The Subspace Emmisary. Brawl actually has a story mode. You can also use stickers you've collected 
 from The Subspace Emmisary to boost your character's attack, defense etc. In vs mode there's more 
 game modes + special brawl. You can have a metal brawl, giant brawl, tiny brawl, and you can even 
 change between light and heavy gravity. The smash ball is another thing though. If you get it you 
 can use your character's final smash. But smash balls can be knocked out of you. Brawl has 35 characters. Some 
 characters that were in melee are absent from brawl but brawl added more than it took away. Masterpieces 
 are little demos of certain games that range from :30-5:00. In your vault you can view your stickers 
 and trophies and arrange your stickers/trophies in an album/diorama. You can also make your own 
 stages in stage builder. You can view your records and watch videos from The Subspace Emmisary and 
 some other videos. Nintendo Wi-Fi lets you brawl online. You can exchange friend codes with someone 
 and to a team multi man brawl or team home run contest. But online can have lag. The lag can range 
 from barely noticeble to just plain laaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagy. If you can get past the lag obline is 
 fun. Whether you've been playing since super smash bors or are new check out super smash bros brawl. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miroku32
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 10:03 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl is the new game in the Smash Bros Franchise and despite it took quite a 
 time for being released it was worth the wait. The character roostes has increased considerably 
 since melee and almost all the characters from melee return. In this new game there are characters 
 like Wario, Icarus, Ike and some others that add more fun to the game and also there are others 
 that can change to form like Samus. One of the best things of this game is that Nintendo added 
 the Final Smash, it is a ball that the one who broke it can do a super devastating move that almost 
 always kill all the players on the screen. In Brawl there are also more maps and some from Melee 
 returned, new items like Dragoon from Kirby air ride. A new characteristic is that they changed 
 the adventure mode, now you can choose what maps you want to play after you unlock them and also 
 this is a way for unlock all the characters.
  Perhaps the best new feature of Brawl is that third party characters have joined the Brawl, the 
 two of them were Snake from Metal Gear and Sonic from Sonic the Hedgehog, each one has their own 
 moveset and final smash, so for the people that played in the Nintendo VS Sega era now it is a 
 great time for pit a Mario VS Sonic fight.
  This game is great but what kept it from receiving a perfect score was the Wi-Fi, it is almost 
 impossible to fight in a random battle and if you play with friends expect to have alot of lag 
 but if we forget that then this game is the best game of the Wii in 2008 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyperkass
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 12:56 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is an absolute magnificent game. It is, it has so many qualities to it, 
 you can see why it has won numerous Best Fighting or Wii Games for 2008.
  
  How can I start? Everything about it is good. Well, the plot. Yes a Super Smash Bros game has a 
 plot! Basically, the plot has a unique named called "The Subspace Emissary". It revolves around, 
 well, not sure these purple alien type characters being led by Bowser and Ganondorf, who are led 
 by Master Hand, who is led by a blue-watchmen character looking guy by the name of Tabuu) trying 
 to bring you down and be led by Tabuu. The story is quite good, short but sweet as the cutscenes 
 bring in all the characters (give 3, Wolf, Toon Link and Jigglypuff which you get after defeating 
 the mode) . Its good while it lasts, but is not worth much after you defeat it.
  
  The vast, i mean vast catalogue of characters in this games is truely amazing. Mario. Sonic. Snake. 
 Kirby. Pikachu. The list goes on as new, and old characters reunite in this epic game. The game 
 truely does depart from the "clone" feeling of the previous game, Melee, by giving each character 
 there own set of moves (though some are rougly the same) and of course the madly introduced "Final 
 Smash", a massive and somewhat epic move that tends to bring out a 1 hit K. O if the person that 
 gets caught in it is 30 Damage +. 
  
  Mulitplayer is always great with a few mates over, but believe me, it can get addictive. I have 
 put in around 50 hours or so with friends over a period of a month just constantly playing the 
 game. And if, well you have no friends theres all ways the competitive CPU players which do bring 
 a challenge. There are numerous modes in Multiplayer, each bringing lots of enjoyment.
  
  Online, for me, was the biggest let down. Its a dodge, im not sure what Nintendo where thinking 
 when they where creating this compared to the magnificent that is Mario Kart. Its a 50/50 battle 
 against it, laggy as a Windows 95 running Crysis or as sweet as Call of Duty on a PS3. But dont 
 get let down by this, the game makes up for it.
  
  Thats mainly all the aspects of the game, there is to things as Melee mode and home run contest, 
 which will get you the major amount of Trophies and Soundtracks (A new item, which is practically 
 a composition of all the themes and notable music from popular games) , Assist Trophies and the 
 numerous new levels.
  
  Honestly, this should be your Number 1 Game to buy with your Wii along with Mario Kart and Galaxy! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowlink8P
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2009 4:12 pm PT
Review:  this game is so awsome if u have a wii and like fighting games than this will be ur new favorite 
 game of all time. this game if u have it will know that it is one of the best follow up's to any 
 game i have played ever. if u have ever played a super smash bros game than u should tottaly get 
 this game no dout. so if u have the other two than those are both are also very awsome but not 
 as good as this one plus the stage builder and the new characters and stages are all awsome and 
 the sub space admissionary is pretty fun but after u beat it there is no more reason to play it 
 again. the event matches were disopointing because they were all easy even on hard but that is 
 the only disopointment to this game. BOTTOM LINE, THIS GAME IS  
 8P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sleepinglion987
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2009 7:24 pm PT
Review:  I have never thought that a super smash bros game would be so good... THIS IS THE BEST NINTENDO 
 GAME EVER 
  I have never seen such a more beatiful stroryline in a game. The story mode is ridicoulus, especially 
 the multiplayer. I also like how the story mode is kinda long, but sometimes its just too easy. 
 The subsace emmissary has a new flow to its storyline and great graphics to back it up. This game 
 has the largest roster so far in the super smash bros seires. I bet you never thought you could 
 play with Snake (portable ops) and Sonic!! However, they also took out some of the great players 
 from the last series like Mewtwo and Roy. But in this game, they replaced them with Lucario and 
 Ike (fire emblem) ! I also liked the fighting system. Its very unique from other games, with only 
 2 attack buttons, but that leads up to multiple combos. Playing with four of my friends is always 
 fun. This game adds a special twist to the SSB series, with a new attack called the final smash, 
 which is a powerfull move in the game. The first time we saw the specials, we all had our mouths 
 wide open! The game is also usually very funny, like when i play with kirby and cook everyone up 
 with my special, or when Wario runs all of us over. Even after you beat the storyline, theres a 
 bucnh of other things to do like collecting trophies and finiding hiiden characers. It could take 
 you well over 100 hours to finish this game. Another good thing about this game is how you can 
 make your own movies. Thats right, if you want to keep the memories of one of your best battles, 
 you can record it! Overall, this game is awesome. When i get a wii, this will be the first game 
 i buy! Anyone who is a fan of  Emblem, Metal Gear Solid, and any 
 type of action should definitly get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jttucker13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 8:23 pm PT
Review:  First, let me start by saying I've only had my Wii for about six months and had plenty of fun with 
 the Wii Sports and Play games.
  
  Then I found Super Smash Brawl for sale at a video store (the fools!) . Having played the 64 and 
 'cube versions, I immediately snatched it up. Score!
  
  The first thing I noticed when I started playing was the variety of control schemes. No longer 
 did I have to use their preset button configurations. Well, you do, but you have options on which 
 controller to use and how. Wii-mote with nunchuk, Wii-mote sideways, or Gamecube controller all 
 are supported by the game. 
  
  The game features a variety of game modes, some of which are unlocked after completing objectives. 
 An Adventure mode called "The Subspace Emissary" is a great place to start. After playing through 
 completely, most of the hidden characters will be unlocked, as well as a new mode of play. Classsic 
 mode pits you against a few of the other characters with a battle with the Master Hand as finale. 
 Boss Mode allows you to play against the bosses of the adventure mode one after another, marathon 
 style.
  
  As mentioned earlier, most hidden characters can be unlocked through the adventure mode. Some others 
 will appear only after some conditions are met. The same also applies to stages and support items. 
 
  
  Easily accessible beginners video shows the basics of gameplay, so newbies can learn as they play. 
 The sheer variety of attack/item combinations will blow you away. 
  
  This game also supports the Nintendo Wi-fi, which means you can play online against other real 
 people instead of the cpu. Whether anonymously or with friends, nothing beats the fast-paced hectic 
 action of an online brawl.
  
  The addition of the challenge screen was a nice touch. No longer would you be left wondering "how 
 DID I unlock Luigi?". As you play through the game, you unlock different challenges, which allows 
 you to see other challenges to complete, and so on.
  
  I've currently got 110 hours of powered-on time in my data, and I still haven't unlocked all the 
 challenges or found all of the collectible items (trophies and stickers) . 
  
  Whether you're an old-school Nintendo fanboy or a casual fighting fan, this game is worth checking 
 out. 
  
  Having played the game, I would have gladly paid full price to include this in my library.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatmike2127
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2009 11:54 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Brothers Brawl was a game that was definitely worth the wait. It was all it was hyped 
 up to be and more. Most of the new characters in it were very cool while a couple should be questioned 
 why they were in there in the first place. The best addition to the game though was the Final Smashes 
 added to each character. They were like a fatality from Mortal Kombat except less violent. They 
 were all just really cool. Another new thing added to the game were the boss battles where you 
 had to fight 10 different bosses from some of the characters original games. I though this was 
 a clever idea to put into the game. Besides that, everything else seemed the same except maybe 
 it was tweaked a little bit to make it better. Overall, I though Super Smash Bros. Brawl was a 
 great game and definitley one of the better Wii games that is worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacroxs
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2009 9:30 pm PT
Review:  its finally here on the wii super smash bros brawl. With a bigger roster brand new space age emissary 
 and new gameplay features. Brawl is ready to fight
  
  If you have not heard of super smash bros im going to say one thing go buy a wii. go to a game 
 store and buy super smash bros brawl. 
  
  The gameplay is bros is like a fighting game. But instead of someone like triple H or HBK you get 
 Mario, sonic, donkey Kong etc its a typical fighter each can hit and they all have 2 special moves 
 Ike can throw his sword in the air grasp it and come crashing down. Another new item in bros is 
 the smash ball. This is like getting your finisher. You smash the ball push a button and your character 
 unleashes hell... The stages are also very well designed theres a REALLY big one and some small 
 ones for close quarter combat. If this wasn't enough you can make your own stages. The good thing 
 is you can make really advanced ones or simple ones. There isn't much of a learning curve to the 
 level creator but it does seem hard first go.
  
  The Graphics in bros is just amazing for lack of a better word. The best Graphics Ive ever seen 
 on the wii. Characters textures are great and everything from stages to the CGI animations in sub 
 Space emissary are also top notch. It won't turn 360/PS3 fanboys heads. But it will turn wii fanboys 
 heads alot...
  
  The sound is good and comes close to greatness. you hear your characters battle cries. and also 
 hear the weapons effects and item effects very good to.
  
  On to story the game really doesn't have a story in a way theres your sub space emissary and classic 
 mode. Classic is just one stage kill this guy next stage kill 2 guys with a friend. then maybe 
 a target smash. Then you have sub space emissary. these evil things are turning everyone to purple 
 and statues. The bad thing is that none of the characters talk so it does get at you sometimes. 
 But the CGI more than makes up for it...
  
  Graphics:9.3
  Story:8.3
  Sound:8.7
  Gameplay:9.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXcaped
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 6:10 pm PT
Review:  The third title in the super smash bros series comes with a larger selection of characters and 
 much more things to unlock. This game is overall amazing but I wouldn't rate it a 10 due to the 
 fact the single player isn't really addicting.
  
  This game can be really short or really long on depending on your main objective. Many people just 
 want to unlock all characters and some may want to unlock completely everything. 
  
  This game has good graphics and the stages look really nice too. I like the graphics for this game. 
 
  
  Even though i don't play it a lot i still find it fun because I do play it when cousins or friends 
 come around and this game has an awesome multi-player.
  
  The internet VS option is really fun because you can test your skills against other people you 
 do not know which can be a challenge because everyone has their own different style of fighting 
 but it does have a lot of lag in it and you only get one option of 2 minutes time battle which 
 gets dull.
  
  But overall this game is really great and i would recommend it to a person who loves fun multi-player. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luigiman1443
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2009 8:48 am PT
Review:  This game is mega awesome and if you don't have it get it even if you don't have a Wii buy a Wii 
 and get this game! So there's a single player mode and a multiplayer mode but most of the time 
 you can have 1-4 players in the single and you can play alone in multiplayer too but it's not as 
 fun. In the beginning of the story tour just a bunch of Nintendo characters that team up to defeat 
 an evil dark hand and he also makes your friends statues. So you can play that with 1-2 players 
 'cause that's usually the single player but you can ad a friend. This game is so AWESOME do us 
 all a favor and leave this review on but go to the store and get this game NOW unless you already 
 have it then you should agree with me right? who am I kidding its not a question if you don't like 
 it you are dumb!!! So that's about all for now read my next review plz 
  ~By for now Luigiman1443 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sackboy15
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2009 9:52 pm PT
Review:  the game with 35 characters 41 stages ssbb. there are many modes in this game such as nintendo 
 wi-fi, stage builder. the subspace emissary is a long story mode in this game that takes place 
 in the world of trophies. you have to play through tons of stages . you are going to have to save 
 the world from subspace.
  I am not gonna spoil this. another mode called boss battles lets you fight the bosses from the 
 subspace emissary [after you beat the last boss] the other modes from the other games [all star 
 mode, classic mode and v. s mode] for classic you play matches until you get up to master hand. for 
 all-star you fight all of the characters in the game. in v. s mode you can fight many people or 
 computers for as many times as you want. so in all this game is really fun. I did not include all 
 of the stuff in this review. there is so many things to do in this game you might get lost in the 
 game you know what i mean. So have fun playing this amazingly fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Johonywuzhere
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2009 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. for N64 was more of a just have fun arcade game. Super Smash Bros. Melee 7 years 
 later gave a huge graphics improvement and a much more attacks, maps and characters to use, but 
 still need some single player type. In Melee, there is adventure mode, which is like classic, except 
 you have objective. The adventure mode was fun, but only took minutes to finish. Brawl brings in 
 the campaign Subspace Emissary.
  
  Brawl's campaign is short, but longer then Halo 3 and COD4's campaign. It will take 8-11 hours, 
 but there is unlockable players still after the campaign. You have 4 difficulties to choose from, 
 so it won't be too easy or too hard. You can also have a friend play with you and join in anytime 
 when your playing. You also unlock Event mode which was Melee's base single player mode because 
 it was longer then any other mode. Event mode you have to do a certain task to go on to the next 
 event. It isn't nearly as long as melee's event mode, but it will take a while. You also can unlock 
 Boss mode where you fight every boss in the game with few healers. There is also multi-man brawl 
 where you have to defeat a certain amount of opponents coming at you to win.
  
  Brawl's multiplayer is absolutely amazing. Super Smash Bros. always perfected multiplayer. The 
 new idea of having items, bigger maps, and no health just beat all of the Mortal Kombat and Soul 
 Calibur's 1 on 1 small flat maps, with just attacking the other person until they are K. O'd. The 
 maps are just amazing on Brawl and if you get board you can play N64 game demos or make your own 
 map. You can also play online free for all or online 2 vs. 2. It will take a while, but when you 
 get a match it will be amazing. You can pretty also customize a online match. 
  
  Brawl is probably the best looking game on the Wii. Melee had impressive graphics, but Melee isn't 
 nearly as detailed as Brawl. Brawl would be a good looking game on the Xbox 360 or PS3. Brawl's 
 graphics are as good as the gameplay. This is a game where you get the AV Component cables juswt 
 to play this on 480p. Also the music will never get old because there are so many choices and you 
 always unlock new music.
  
  Brawl is no doubt the best fighting game ever. It has 35 characters in total after unlocking all 
 of them, and 41 stages (29 at the start) . You can unlock stickers, trophies and new pieces for 
 creating stages. There are also many items you can use in multiplayer. You can have a tournament 
 with you and your friends at your house with the tournament mode. Brawl is perfection in almost 
 every category. Easily 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Troqe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 8:51 am PT
Review:  First off, the story. It was pretty good, cutscenes looked pretty nice and because constantly changing 
 character and environment it felt varied enough to keep me interested. Until that is I got to the 
 point where I had to go back to all the previous levels which was really tiresome. The fighting 
 is better than most of the genre and the choice of characters is great, though some of the characters 
 (namely Meta Knight) have quite cheap attacks. On the multiplayer side of things, its quite a nice 
 game to have at a party, not drastically more fun in multiplayer like a lot people say, but still, 
 pretty good game to play with your friends. The online multiplayer is laggy and I tend to get annihilated 
 most of time. There are also a bunch of other modes which I never really found that compelling 
 but I guess extra content is never a bad thing. Overall though its a pretty good game which I got 
 good use out of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirt871
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2009 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros., packed in more characters, more stages and a seemingly endless supply of nostalgic 
 trophies and collectibles to become one of the system's most beloved efforts. There was so much 
 content squeezed into Melee, in fact, that the multiplayer fighter kept devoted fans entertained 
 not just for months, but years. Yet, compared to the Whopper that is Super Smash Bros Brawl, a 
 Wii game dripping with different play modes, characters, stages and online components, Melee has 
 been reduced to a plain old hamburger. (And by the way, i'm hungry.) 
  
  Hungry, that is, for some epic offline and online multiplayer fights, and thankfully Brawl  like 
 its predecessors  satisfies. If you want numbers, we've got them. Nintendo's latest fighter features 
 35 mascots  a figure up from 12 in the original and 26 in Melee. It also includes more than 40 
 different levels, each a throwback to classic franchise stages, both from Nintendo and also from 
 the likes of SEGA and Konami, but we'll get to that. Point is, it's a much meatier package -- we 
 honestly don't know why we can't seem to break from our hamburger analogies  and we haven't even 
 started in on the customization options, online support, and more
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: biker36466
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 11:07 am PT
Review:  this game is bettter then the other ones.
  it has an extensive amount of characters.
  the graphics are a whole lot better
  this games graphic texture is very good for a wii game.
 
  they took it up to the next level.
  and the music fits the game very well and makes it more enjoyable
  but after a while of playing 
 it gets kinda old
  even when with freinds it can get kinda boring.
  i dont think it is worth spending money on this game.
  i would say it is overrated
  
  the 
 online play for this game is kinda poor.
  allthough it is free. it is not fun.
  in order to add friends you must get a friends code.
  you cannot add random people from the game.
 
  the lag in this game is soo bad it wouldnt even be worth playing if you got your freinds code 
 number.
  not much people play online
  and when online the only game that can be played is with time.
  and truely i dont like it at 
 all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AjaxNeron
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2009 7:55 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  There is a wide selection of items that you can use or throw at other people! With an eight-hour 
 story mode, tons of unlockables such as characters, trophies, stickers, music, stages, etc, and 
 the best multi-player (Wi-Fi isn't as good) , this game is epic!
  
  This game is great for people of any age!
  
  The online isn't as good as we'd like it to be, 
 but good fun nonetheless. Sometimes it will lag a little, and it does get boring after a while.
 
  
  Rating: 9.5/10
  
  Challenge
  Story mode is quite easy, but long. You can change the level of the COMs if you're going into a 
 brawl from level 1 to 9. If you want a real challenge, try beating boss mode after you beat the 
 game. All ten bosses packed into one, and there's only three hearts throughout the whole thing. 
 
  Rating: 9.4/10
  
  Storyline
  The storyline is very original. It's not the longest story, but it is jam-packed with fun. It takes 
 about 8 hours to beat it on average.
  Rating: 9.1/10
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are perfect. I have never seen a single pixel out of place besides once or twice in 
 Wi-Fi. The game design is absolutely beautiful.
  Rating: 9.7/10
  
  Controls
  You can use the Wiimote alone like a classic controller or the Wiimote and nunchuck combo. The 
 controls aren't too complicated, but there are quite a few moves to learn. There are so many items, 
 but they are very easy to use. Some characters are easier/harder to use than others. Some of the 
 easier characters to use are Mario, Luigi, Pikachu, Link, and Samus. There are no 'better' characters. 
 It all depends on how you use them. Sonic is one of the most powerful characters but can be beaten 
 by what some would call 'the weakest characters'. 
  Rating: 9.8/10
  
  Sound/Music
  The music and sound effects are part of what makes this game so amazing, with classic music from 
 all your favorite games, such as Mario, Kirby, Sonic the Hedgehog, Animal Crossing, Star Fox, Pokmon, 
 and more! The sound effects for this game are great and the fighting sounds just like the real 
 characters. 
  Rating: 10/10
  
  Overall: 9.5/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerForca
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2009 11:04 pm PT
Review:  With Melee, the Smash Bros series made huge progress from the brilliant design of Smash Bros on 
 the N64. Brawl took the achievements even further by far outclassing Melee in terms of content 
 and game modes. Brawl delivers greatly on its promise of being a massive game, but doesn't shine 
 so well in other obvious ways.
  One of Brawls greatest attractions was undoubtedly its graphics. In some ways, they were too similar 
 to Melee's, but the environments are more lucid and the lighting effects are far improved. The 
 character models are clearly a deal better than in Melee because of higher resolution textures. 
 Of course, with the load of extra content, the graphics probably couldn't be juiced as much as 
 possible. The levels tend to be bigger and more exciting, and many more enemies can be squeezed 
 on the screen with no noticeable lag. Environments are also fairly destructible in most levels, 
 adding a new twist to the gameplay. Overall, the graphics are easily better than Melee's, though 
 the textures might not always show it.
  Brawl's greatest achievement is without a doubt the musical score. The game contains an assembly 
 of the greatest tunes from the greatest games. Best of all, many are fully orchestrated, which 
 will absolutely blow veteran gamers away with nostalgia. Even the new Brawl songs are epic, and 
 the ability to make arenas with whatever epic music you want is astounding. You can even change 
 music of certain characters to the music you like best of that series. ie, you can switch the Zelda 
 battlefields music to your favorite Zelda music. The music alone is reason enough to get as many 
 unlockables as you possibly can. Simply the greatest score of all time.
  As far as gameplay goes, Brawl is an absolute blast to begin with. Very few series' will ever draw 
 the gamer in as well as Smash Bros, and Brawl is no exception. A long and worthy single player 
 campaign that can also be played co-op is the highlight of Brawl's greatest additions. The campaign 
 is all set with long, action-packed levels and thrilling boss fights. Great cutscenes also tell 
 the story, which isn't particularly good, but not bad either considering the genre of the game. 
 After one or maybe to play-throughs though, the repetitiveness will be obvious and there won't 
 be much influence, other than some unlockables, to finish the game on the tougher difficulties. 
 Even during the first play-through, the dryness of the later levels can be almost unbearable. 
 
  Like in Melee, Brawl returns with the Event challenges. Playing through various special missions, 
 especially co-op, can be a great deal better than the campaign. However, even the most difficult 
 ones aren't terribly hard, and only the last (on the hardest difficulty) is truly challenging. 
 Of course along with the other game modes comes the home-run mini-game, an All-Star challenge, 
 the regular fight till you can fight no longer modes, and the brawl missions where you can fight 
 100 polygons, or 10 minutes of them, or even an endless amount of mind-blowingly powerful ones 
 among other modes. Most of those games, including the brawlers, can be played co-op, adding to 
 the argument that Brawl is the best local multiplayer game of all time. With videos and pictures 
 sent daily over Wiiconnect24, and the ability to send and receive screenshots and replays among 
 other things, Brawl is unarguably one of the most content-loaded games of all time. Unlockable 
 VC demos of great classics also offer a decent amount of fun gameplay.
  For local multiplayer, Brawl is quite possibly the great game ever. Endless hours can be had at 
 just blasting away at your friends and family. Once again, Smash Bros is easily playable for players 
 of any age. There are many game types, most of which were present in Melee and keep Brawl very 
 interesting. There are more characters to choose from, but sadly many characters are still clones 
 and Nintendo doesn't even try to hide that fact in Brawl. While each character is still fun to 
 play, Brawl has one major problem that will make the game repetitive and boring after a couple 
 of weeks: the characters are simply too even. Instead of being able to beat up on the tougher characters 
 with the weaker ones, giving a sense of accomplishment, even characters like Ness and Pikachu can 
 stand up to Fox, Link, etc. That, specifically, might not be too much of a handicap, but the characters 
 seem to lose a lot of their uniqueness, causing even more repetition to the gameplay. Sure, their 
 attacks may look unique, but the attacks for B or down-A (for example) all amount to the same thing 
 for each character. No characters having an overwhelming strength or weakness adds much staleness 
 to the game after hours of playing. 
  While the local multiplayer might be amazing despite some problems, those flaws are pointed out 
 strongly during online gameplay.. with many other problems added. First of all, even with adjustments 
 to their servers, nintendo has not been able to stop frequent lag. Sometimes the lag isn't too 
 bad, but it is usually a game breaker. That alone keeps the online weak, and in this day and age, 
 that destroys Brawl's replayability. Second, the online is absolutely bare-bones. No leaderboards, 
 no rankings, no stats, no records, no chatting, no variety in game modes.. you name it and Brawl 
 probably doesn't have it. The online may be fun for a few rounds, but it gets old quickly and surely. 
 With no spectator options for friends matches, tournaments are nearly impossible. Sure there is 
 spectating and betting coins in matches, but with no ranking system, what the hell is the point 
 in that? There may be some other disappointments in Brawl, but the online multiplayer is simply 
 the most devastating. 
  With many improvements, Brawl is truly a great game. But with the enormous amount of time fans 
 had to wait, the result is sure to be a bit disappointing to most. The local multiplayer content 
 is vast, probably the best of all time, but the online is a bungled mess. With some hard-to-ignore 
 repetitiveness, many of Brawl's modes can be boring quickly, though that hardly hurts Brawl too 
 much as it is easily one of the biggest technical achievements the Wii has to offer. The musical 
 score is the greatest of all time, and that alone is worthy of high praise. When everything is 
 said and done, Smash Bros 64 and Melee were better for their time, but Brawl has a huge amount 
 of great content that will satisfy the majority of players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_sageX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Brawl probably had the biggest hype ever in a fighting game, and after playing through 
 the game it is safe to say that it lived up to expectations, because not only does it deliver fun 
 hours of game play but also has an insane amount of content.
  
  Game design: Like the games before it Super Smash Bros Brawl is a fighting game that pits Nintendo 
 stars against each other and there are many different ways to play.
  The game graphics are a bit more detailed than the previous game and the backgrounds are a lot 
 more interactive this time.
  Stages will have amazing background animations, so much so it might distract you from the actual 
 fight which is pretty amazing.
  There are many modes in the game for both single player and multi-player.
  The single player 
 will have the classic mode where you will fight in traditional arcade style with a few target hitting 
 courses along the way before facing off against master hand.
  The adventure mode has been upgraded to the Sub-Space Emissary Mode. In this mode you will go through 
 a long story involved around an evil force that wants to turn people into trophies and in-gulf 
 places in to darkness.
  You will basically be platforming from one end to another in 2D style fighting stages enemies and 
 boss battles, It's linear and you will be playing as many different characters a long the way, 
 this mode can also be play with 2 players for co-op adding extra fun to the long stages. The story 
 itself is pretty plain and kind of bland mainly because characters say absolutely nothing during 
 cut scenes and might even feel silly, but the mode is there if you are interested.
  Then there is the All-Star mode from Melee which pits you against all characters unlocked, this 
 can now also be played with a 2nd player.
  In addition to those modes you could always attend the stadium or event matches for extra challenges 
 and unlock more content.
  In Multi-player you will have a large selection of matches.
  There is the traditional brawl which pits you against 4 players and will get to chose from the 
 many different stages.
  A long with time and stock battles you can choose from a large selection of different conditional 
 battles, such as giant brawl, small brawl, metal brawl, fast brawl and the list goes on.
  While the offline features are great what WILL excite fans is the addition of online multi-player! 
 That's right you can now brawl against other players worldwide! Of course you will have to go through 
 the friend's code procedure.
  If for some reason single-player and multi-player isn't enough you will have a data gallery for 
 collecting music, trophies and stickers and if that's not enough you could play to unlock past 
 stages from melee and the first super smash bros and if that's not enough you could always create 
 your own stage using the stage builder which can also be shared online. The content in this game 
 is practically endless, so much that I haven't even seen all of them yet!
  
  Game play: Classic characters are back and the roster has increased with old faces that haven't 
 been seen in a while finally making appearances (Like Pit from Kid Icarus or Lucas from Earthbound) 
 and also non Nintendo licensed characters Sonic the hedgehog and Snake (from the Metal Gear series) 
 have joined the fray and are pretty well balanced.
  Every characters is unique, while character clones are still present they are by no means the same, 
 they handle pretty much differently and their moves and animations have been altered to give them 
 their own personalities, so while for some the buttons feel the same the actions are completely 
 different.
  You can play Super Smash Bros Brawl with 4 different control schemes which are Wiimote + nunchuck, 
 Wiimote, Gamecube controller and classic controllers.
  While I personally prefer the Gamecube controls the Wii controls are pretty descent as well, they 
 are not better or worse than the Gamecube but rather different, if you take your time to adjust 
 to the controls then you will surely adopt, however there the Wii control schemes don't take advantage 
 of the sensors, you will basically be pushing buttons and you won't be swinging the Wiimote anytime 
 in the game making this game more for hardcore than casual players.
  New items were placed in the game including new pokemon's and new weapons.
  The most eye catching 
 items will be the Smash Ball. Whacking a smash ball will enable characters to activate their final 
 smashes, which are ultimate attacks that can cause massive damage or instant deaths.
  Another new eye catching item is the assist trophies; the player who grabs an assist trophy will 
 summon special characters to aid them in battle.
  While all these new items are powerful the fun part is fighting over them, of course if it gets 
 on your nerves you could always switch them off with the item switch.
  
  Sound: Music is great this time around and there is almost endless soundtracks for you to unlock 
 during the game and can even adjust the percentage of selected music played during a stage.
  Sound affects are also nice and sharp now and most characters were given new voices and some can 
 even talk now.
  
  Super Smash Bros Brawl is one of the best and if not THE best fighting game this gen and a must 
 have title for the Wii.
  You just can't get anymore complete than this game because there are just so many content and so 
 many options and there really isn't anything missing.
  
  The only complaint I have however, is the selection of questionable characters added to the game. 
 
  I mean Snake? Why Snake? Sure he is awesome but he doesn't really fit in the game. Then there are 
 undesired characters like Mr. Game&Watch, Olimar and now even R. O. B is in as well, its just hard 
 for me to believe that these were supposed to have been replacements for the one character that 
 SHOULD have been in the game along with Sonic, and I'm talking about Megaman! But I'm sure I'm 
 not the first to complain about Megaman not being here.
  
  Apart from a few lame characters added in, the game is pretty much a must buy and a good reason 
 to purchase a Wii so get it if you have the chance!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSFanaticNerd
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2009 8:41 am PT
Review:  This game is not one that you waste money on, this is a game that is fun even if you've beaten 
 it. Because if you have a friend, a sibling, a parent, a boy/girl-friend, a rival even! You have 
 the best game in the world. It's easy to learn, can be confusing, but is sure for a good time. 
 
  
  The graphics are good (I've never been one to judge) . The playability is as good as it can get! 
 Winning the game, comes AFTER hours of fun with friends and you can slowly beat the game as you 
 play with friends (that's the best part) . 
  
  The game NEVER gets old, because there are dozens of characters to chose from, to unlock, and even 
 if you're playing with the same person, if you change characters each time, the winning is skill 
 with a character. Especially if you turn items off. It's mostly skill, a little luck, and a dash 
 of button-pressing.
  
  This game is one you don't want to miss out on. If you have a Wii and are thinking about getting 
 it, go buy it right now!
  
  Single player is good too. Don't forget to do it, the plot is oddly clever, Gameplay suspiciously 
 fun, and battles ever endless.
  
  Good luck! Have fun with the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coronithofcork
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2009 10:56 am PT
Review:  The first waz good, the second better, the third almost perfect i would recomend this to anyone who 
 likes a little strret fighter or mario games. I give This totally great game a 10/10. Anyone who 
 does not like this game is a compleat idiot SERIOSLY! Heres some reasons why, good graphics, fun 
 multiplayer, cool special moves, and an awsome sound track. The only bad thing is its not great fun 
 without more people its more of a party game if u ask me. but u can still play online and kick some 
 noobs butt! If u dont get this game and u own a wii u r a compleat noob. I have met no one who 
 does not like this game its a game you will cherish for ever. A perfect childhood clasic well its 
 not classic yet but it will be. Be a smart person and buy this game trust me u will love it. :) 
 Go SUPER SMASH BROTHERS  
::::::

::::::
UserName: naruto13666
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2009 9:09 am PT
Review:  The coolest thing about this game is that you can pick your favorite Nintendo character and just 
 beat everything up out of your characters.
  I want to see more Nintendo characters in the next game.
  The game-play is easy.
  and you'l 
 spend a lot of time on playing the game and off course on unlock the new characters.
  New in the game is the subspace emissary story.
  A complete new and original story mode which 
 is the way to unlock all the characters.
  You'l have the most fun if you play with 2-4 players. Off course you can play o nline with Nintendo 
 Wi-Fi mode.
  All on all it's just a cool game.
  You just need to buy it you can't have a wii without super smash bros. brawl.
  I already spend 
 a lot of time on this game.
  It's most fun with my nephew around.
  It's the best game I have.
  Awesume ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aravindashwin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 4:32 pm PT
Review:  If you ask someone about Brawl, they will answer that is the best fighting game ever made. Well, 
 first of all Smash Bros is not a fighting game, so i will not be reviewing it as such. I will be 
 reviewing this game for what it actually is, i am not going to say it is the best game ever, but 
 then on the other hand I am not going to say it is the worst game ever made. My point is that this 
 is merely an average game that has been astronomically hyped, then presented in a way that was 
 completely unlike how I expected it to be. Now i'm going to split the review into the good and the 
 bad.
  
  
  The Good: 
  
  Great graphics for a Wii game, character animations are pretty nice. Great music, great selection 
 from all the different games. Nintendo did a good job with the roster, except some characters seemed 
 unneccesary.
  
  
  
  The Bad:
  
  God Awful story mode if you could call it one. The cutscenes might have looked nice, but didn't 
 make a bit of sense until you read what the story actually was online. Tedious, repetitive, and 
 simple, the story mode was a nap which then led to the final boss which then became overly difficult. 
 And then the character roster. Contrary to what everyone else says, the character list is extremely 
 unbalanced, with certain characters maintaining a substantial advantage, and other characters being 
 so underpowered that they are barely playable. I found this to be a major error in the game, and 
 following the huge hype this was a major dissapointment. Next we must look at the levels. Many 
 of the new levels were simply not fun to play with, end of story. Then some of the new features 
 seemed tacked on and unneccessary, such as the stickers which were only used in the "story mode". 
 The stage creator is incredibly shallow, with a narrow range of peripherals to use to create stages. 
 The achievments also seemed tacked on, requiring tedious replaying of certain aspects, such as 
 the Boss Battles mode which is near impossible because of the Final Boss on the hardest difficulty. 
 The game has been slowed down substantially as well, catering more to the young'uns of today.
 
  
  So in conclusion, despite all the hype, all the defense from the wii fanboys and little kids, we 
 must learn to see the game for what it actually is, an overhyped dissapointment to Nintendo's original 
 fanbase, the fanbase that Iwata himself stated the company will not cater to anymore. We must come 
 to realize the truth, which is that Nintendo is no longer supporting the veteran gamers, but rather 
 the newer casual audience, when we look at Super Smash Bros Brawl, we can see a game that had the 
 potential to be amazing, but in order to appeal to a more casual audience, lost the grandeur that 
 made people enjoy smash brothers games in the first place.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samox
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 5:48 pm PT
Review:  To start this off let me say I've played all three Super Smash Bro's games on all three consoles. 
 And this one was the worst of the three.
  
  This game is not terrible, but its incredibly overrated. A 9.5? No, I don't think so. Don't be 
 fooled by the Wii fan boys. This game fall's short of my expectations as a veteran SSB player.
 
  
  Let's start off with the good.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are good, I mean their nothing like you'll find on the PS3 or 360, but as 
 for Wii graphics, there great.
  
  Sound: The sound is great, there's a wide variety of noises and such that you'll hear while playing 
 Brawl. All the characters sound unique.
  
  Now for the not so good.
  
  Game play: The game play has slowed down considerably since Melee. Which I suppose is due to the 
 fact that people are using motion controls now. The slower pace of combat does take it's toll on 
 the amount of "fun produced" while playing it. However the new additions to the roster, and a few 
 new item's do help make the game a little more fun and refreshing.
  
  Story: Yeah, chances are you didn't buy SSBB for the storyline. But don't even bother trying the 
 single player "story mode". It could be the most repetitive story mode I've played in quite some 
 time. There are nice bonuses for beating it though..
  
  Controls: In my opinion, the Wii remote doesn't perform as well as the N64 controller or the GC 
 controller. The use of the motion control's is a little useless and may slow you down, if you decide 
 to use them.
  
  And that about sum's it up. Not nearly as amazing as the first SSB or Melee, but a decent game 
 on it's own merit's.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyrant03
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2009 11:26 am PT
Review:  Back on the Nintendo 64, a title known as Super Smash Brothers was released. It didn't have many 
 fighters but at the time, it was a revolution in fighting games. Then came Smash Brothers Melee 
 on the Nintendo Gamecube. This title brought back everything we loved from the original but kicked 
 it into overdrive. Now enter the Wii.. we all knew this was coming. When the trailer was finally 
 revealed at E3, the hype began. Super Smash Brothers Brawl lived up to it's hype with tons of old 
 and new fighters, brand new arenas, new music, new trophies, an actual story mode complete with 
 CG cutscenes and the most frantic combat ever seen. The game even brought in characters you would 
 have never expected like Toon Link, Sonic the Hedgehog and Solid Snake! We also now have custom 
 stage builders and online multiplayer.. You really couldn't ask for more.. This is the Smash Brothers 
 game everyone wanted. Nothing short of perfection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomthedude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 9:13 am PT
Review:  
  Since the original, released in 1999, the Super Smash Bros. series has evolved in many different 
 ways. The first games cartoony graphics and low expectations (because Smash Bros. was one of the 
 first games to bring diferent series protagonists together) , has gradually made the transition 
 to a darker game, in which every major, and a few lesser known minors make an appearance. This 
 may put off some people, but after playing Brawl, you will soon realise it is simply Melee with 
 a facelift and a ton of new features. And that is definitely not a bad thing.
  
  There are alot of people out there who judge the series by its cover, in this case, its most impressive 
 feature. They see it as an OK game with an impressive multiplayer. Melee made them change their 
 minds, and Brawl will make sure that they never look back. Simply because it is such a deep game. 
 Once you have seen everything the game has to offer, you wont feel disappointed that its over. 
 You will want to play it again. And again. It's almost as if Nintendo couldnt fit anything else 
 onto the disk, with everything from Melee returning with new additions that make the game better 
 than you ever thought it could be.
  
  The first thing that makes Brawl streets ahead of Melee, in terms of replayability, are the new 
 characters. Nintendo have streched further into the archives and broadened their horizons even 
 more to bring you Wario, Sonic the Hedgehog and even Solid Snake, and they all have 5 different 
 costumes to add some more variety. One of the only downsides to the choice of characters is the 
 fact that too many of them you may not have heard of. Yes, there is Samus, Link, Peach, Captain 
 Falcon and everyone else you expect, you may also come across such as the Ice Climbers and Lucas 
 (The latter of which was in a game only released in Japan) . There are 35 characters overall and 
 14 of them must be unlocked.
  
  There are numerous ways to unlock new Brawlers. When playing offline quick Brawl or offline multiplayer, 
 you may randomly be 'approached' by a challenger who you must defeat. If you win, the character 
 is unlocked and also the arena associated with them. Another way to unlock a character is to do 
 the equivalent of an offline 'Story Mode' called Subspace Emissary. This mode has character specific 
 storylines and CGI style animation explaining said story. It is played side-scrolling, like the 
 Mario Bros. series, and at the end of levels there will be a boss. As you progress through this 
 mode, more characters will join your team and can be swapped in and out. It is a great timewaster, 
 and is best played, as with most else in this game, multiplayer.
  
  Subspace, if you are unlucky enough to not have your Wii online, is a fairly decent 'main story' 
 mode. It will take a good few days to complete (providing you want to collect everything) and it 
 can be played locally. The Emissary is complete with awesome looking cutscenes. Seeing them, you 
 can tell Nintendo put alot of work into making Brawl look good. They do the best job they can of 
 explaining the story but with no narration, it is quite hard to understand what is actually happening. 
 The only real downside to this mode is that (simply because of everything else in the game) it 
 doesn't really need to be there. The story mode is difficult to understand, , particularly jumping, 
 are unforgiving and it just generally feels tacked on. The game already has a classic mode, Brawl 
 mode, a ton of extras and of course, the online.
  
  WiFi is where Brawl really stands out. For the past 2 games, we have been confined to our living 
 rooms, Melee'ing with our friends. There wasn't much challenge involved, because playing the same 
 people meant you knew their moves and strategies. If you needed a bit more of a challenge, you 
 were kind of stuck. Brawl's online is the answer to both these problems. You can fight with friends, 
 as expected, but also with anyone else in the world who is currently connected. You can be matched 
 up in teams, or go it alone. You then choose your character and the stage you would like to play 
 in. Everyone else in the match does this and a stage is picked from the group at random.
  
  Once again, Nintendo's annoying friend-code system returns if you want to battle against one of 
 your friends online. You may think it ruins the process of playing with a specific person, but 
 Brawl is different. I would encourage you to use a friend code more often, because it opens up 
 a whole host of new options which playing Quick Matches don't allow. You can change the rules and 
 game type. It is just like playing with a friend in your house, but they may live all the way in 
 Austrailia. You can even have another person join the online brawl as a guest!
  
  With that said, we have to remember that this is Smash Bro's first attempt at an online feature, 
 so we can expect a few niggles here and there. I am glad to say that this is not the case with 
 this game, with very minor lag, if any at all. This makes the online experience a great new feature, 
 and one that can and should be built upon in the future. Online voice chat via Wii Speak, anyone?
 
  
  Online is where it is at, yes, but the offline multiplayer can be just as enjoyable. Rules can 
 be changed to add spice to those gruelling deciders with friends. These include timed explosives, 
 gravity and game speed. These are definitely fun to mess around with, but for those new to the 
 game, you may just want to stick to the traditional rules. Game modes can also be altered, making 
 it able to brawl in teams, or individually.
  
  When actually playing Brawl, you can see that this is a game that has been honed to perfection 
 over time. The animations are well done, with every hit looking like it should, and leaving the 
 opponent looking like they should. The balance of running around and actually attacking is levelled, 
 making sure you will spend equal time between fighting and jumping to a platform to collect a weapon. 
 And when you capture that great moment, you can zoom in close and take a picture, to be saved onto 
 an SD card.
  
  Another place where Nintendo has hit the sweet spot is the controls you will use to actually perform 
 the above actions. Smash Bros. features no less than 4 control methods including the Wii Remote, 
 Remote and Nunchuck, Classic controller and Gamecube controller. Featuring so many different ways 
 to play, you are almost guaranteed to find a method that works for you. Not one of the control 
 types is better than another meaning there is no large advantage to any of them. They do what they 
 are supposed to superbly, like jumping to save yourself from instant death to dealing that last 
 smash to send your enemy into orbit.
  
  Speaking of smashes, a new feature called 'Final Smash' has been implemented. When you collect 
 the floating Brawl logo (by bashing it a few times) the sky darkens and your character will start 
 to flash. With the press of a button, he will unleash his final move to end the match. Well, it 
 wont end the match, but it is basically a free kill. There is a large variety of the smashes, with 
 each brawler having his own, so you should experiment with each to find out the most effective 
 one.
  
  Another Brawl first is the ability to create your own levels. While it isn't as in depth as it 
 could be, it's still a fun way to waste a few hours. Choosing blocks to place on your stage is 
 easy, with most of the screen taken up by a preview window, and the rest with all of your options. 
 These include stone platforms, elevators, spikes and springs. The possibilities aren't endless, 
 with only a few backdrops to choose from and very little different materials to coat your objects 
 with, but the unique levels you CAN make are more than enough. When you have finished your masterpiece, 
 you can test it in real time. There are also a few finishing touches you can add, such as a name 
 and over 100 different music tracks. It is a bit of a shame that custom levels can't be emjoyed 
 online though.
  
  As said above, there is alot of variety in the music. Over 100 tracks feature on the games mammoth 
 soundtrack, and they all come from the games in which the Brawl characters come from. So for example: 
 Some tracks from the Metal Gear Solid games feature, because Solid Snake is a playable character. 
 Some of the songs also go with the stages, and these really go well together.
  
  Brawl's graphics really stretch the boundaries of the Wii. Impressive lighting effects, great character 
 models and unique stages make it ahead of most games already released. Not an inch of paint looks 
 in the wrong place and not an inch of space looks wasted. The framerate rarely drops, meaning the 
 most hectic of match-ups play like a dream. Simply amazing to look at, Brawl looks set to stand 
 the test of time, maybe even being one of the best looking Wii games at the end of the consoles 
 lifespan.
  
  So, one of the most highly anticipated games of 2008 is a resounding sucess. Almost everything 
 added from Melee improves the experience and even those that don't wont hinder it. If you own a 
 Wii, please buy it now. If you don't own a Wii, please buy a Wii and buy it now. You will not regret 
 it.
  
  GRAPHICS
  One of the best looking games on the Wii so far - really stands out from the rest.
  
  GAMEPLAY
 
  4 different control options and an overall fun game to play.
  
  SOUND
  Over 100 songs on the soundtrack and not one of them sounds out of place.
  
  LASTING APPEAL
 
  Brawl will last you years, and with the new online feature it could well be even longer.
  
  FINAL COMMENTS
  Playing Super Smash Bros. Brawl is an experience you don't want to pass up.
 
  
  
  THE SCORE
  
  Gameplay
  9 out of 10
  
  Graphics
  8 out of 10
  
  Sound
  9.5 out of 10
  
  Lasting Appeal
  10 out of 10
  
  Final Score
  9.4 out of 10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heidiliamben
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 10:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is fantastic, worth playing no matter what age,,
  
  Gameplay: very much the same to its predecessor, unless you use the wiimote and nunchuck which 
 doesnt work as well, you may want to plug in the old gamecube controller for this one.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are great for a wii game, the cut-scenes in the subspace embassy are fantastic.
 
  
  Sound: the music in this game is very good, you will love it, especially if you are a nintendo 
 fan seeing as its all songs from other nintendo games.
  
  Replay value: The multiplayer in this game is so much fun, the more players the funner, and the 
 great thing is even if your a huge nerd with no friends it doesnt matter! because there is a super 
 fun online mode.
  
  bottom line: you should buy it ;)
  
  
  
  first review first review first review first review first review first review first review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meandmewii
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2009 11:01 pm PT
Review:  After hearing all of the hype for this game, and seeing that the reviews and ratings backed it 
 up, I decided that I really couldn't go wrong with purchasing Brawl.
  Having never really played a SSB game before (! shocking right..!) I was unsure what to expect. 
 But i must say this game exceeded my expectations. First, the Subspace Emissary Mode, is the "campaign" 
 part of this game, and I must say seems to be a little lacking. However it is quite long, has tons 
 to collect and discover, decient bosses, and can be somewhat immersive at times. The extras throughout 
 the game; stickers, trophies, challenges, characters, and brawl customizations are endless. Classic 
 Mode ads even more spice to what is already seeming like one amazing game. And yet, there is more, 
 duh, Brawl Mode! This is where it is truly at. It's fun solitaire, but get some of your friends 
 together and it is truly a blast. This is how Brawl was meant to be. Slashing, punching, blasting, 
 kicking, hacking, and well... just plain Brawling it out. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kappazilla996
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 8:56 am PT
Review:  Since its first appearance in 1999, the Super Smash Bros. Series is possibly one of the best selling 
 series of all time, Melee even got best selling game on the GameCube, and Brawl is just as, if 
 not more, promising. The graphics and textures are absolutely stunning, the physics have some iffy 
 areas, the combat is fun, and the characters are vast and fun to play as. Brawl also feature new 
 features like taking snapshots anytime without use of Camera Mode, using more than 1 Special Brawl 
 feature at a time, and the ability to make your own stages.
  
  Brawl also has new items never before in a Smash Bros. like Smash Balls which are used to release 
 a characters Final Smash, a super attack otherwise unusable without hacking, assist trophies which 
 are used to summon unplayable characters to assist you, and Stickers, used only in adventure mode 
 to modify characters abilities. 
  
  Wi-Fi matches let you Brawl with players all over the world with little to no lag at all. But what's 
 really amazing is how well Nintendo was able to make all the characters, even Sonic and Snake, 
 work so well, although some are clones of other characters (Ness-Lucas,-Fox-Falco-Wolf, Link-Toon 
 Link, Ganondorf-Captain Falcon) . Overall, 9.5/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shizenki
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 9:48 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl was the first wii game I bought and so I was unsure of what to expect. Generally 
 I found it was good but with a few problems which keeps it from being great.
  
  Firstly, I was slightly disappointed by the lack of motion controls, even on the menus you have 
 to scroll to your chosen option (which is particularly annoying on character select) . Perhaps this 
 is preferable over gimmicks but with out any motion control what so ever makes it feel like a PS2 
 or game cube game.
  
  The controls are simple and accessible which while is good at the beginning, is somewhat of a double 
 edge sword as far as the single player portion is concerned since you get a feeling of repetition 
 since there isn't that great of a moves list. However it has enough depth for people to master 
 them to give them an edge over either human or CPU opponents
  
  The story mode isn't anything memorable but it does the job and doesn't last that long (my first 
 play through took ten hours) . The rest of the single player is equally average but you can still 
 have some fun with normal brawls.
  
  The online is mediocre since you are simply hurled into a battle with a bunch of unknown players 
 and with no idea how good the connection is. As a result you don't really get the same satisfaction 
 as you do from fighting a named player and also you are prone to lag which is extremely annoying. 
 I think it personally think it was a missed opportunity as part of the whole brawl experience I 
 think is due to the extent of which the brawls can be customised.
  
  This game is truly at it's best when played with friends, either online or offline as not only 
 does the simple control scheme shine but also the frantic pace of the game can truly be seen. The 
 customisable taunts also add to the fun.
  
  Overall, if you are a big Nintendo fan then the fact it gathers all the characters from the nintendo 
 spectrum might be enough to persuade to get this game, though if like me you are not major Nintendo 
 fan you might want to approach this game with a little more thought than you would otherwise.
 
  
  Note from Author: This is an opinion, not a fact so it is not right or wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklink67
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Ok first things first. I really enjoyed the secound smash brothers and knew this game would be 
 good and it is but there one huge set back at least I think. The online. I own all current gen 
 systems ps3,360 and wii and will not compare anything to ps3 and 360 since thats not fair.
  
  
  
  Graphics- They are the the best graphics i have seen so far on wii.
  Every stage 
 and character are very detailed. I liked how nintendo used twilight princesses and wind wakers 
 graphics for the zelda characters. The only minor problem with the graphics in my opinion is that 
 the back ground for custom and sup space emmisoary (sp) are 2D. If the back ground were 3D that 
 would be very very good. Either way doesn't matter.
  
  Sound and music- Every things is great. The music is orignal and everything. The voices and sounds 
 are all unique. I just didn't like any of the remixes none. Like when they remixed ocrina of times 
 field they could have left the old on don't you think? It seems better. Sages two and a final boss. 
 Its pretty much like the previous 2 smash brothers thats why it's called classic: D.
  
  Training- You can pratice your skills on any stage. 1-4 players.
  
  Items- Lots of fun items 
 lots. Ranging from pokemon-smoke balls and lip stick. There are also smash balls to unleash each 
 characters special attack. Just wait until you see bowsers!
  
  Extras- Here hundreds of trophies to collect and music and stickers. When I say hundreds i mean 
 hundreds each. Hundreds of stickers, trophies and music. Stickers can be used in sup space SPECIAL 
 power ups. You can also play past games.
  
  All of this was under gameplay.....
  
  
  Now on to stage making. Well you can make stages but its not that great very limited you'll see 
 what im talking about soon enough.
  
  
  Finally onto The online don't expect this to be like Halo or call of duty's online. Firstly imagine 
 having to add a friend code? And not being able to see how your paying with friend code so you 
 can never play with them again? Thats right you can't add random people you liked playing with. 
 You have to be given there friend code and you have to give them theres some other way. Same with 
 every wii game thats online there are no gamer tag its just not simple like that ware you can just 
 add them yourwii friend code should be it not a code for every online game for wii one should be 
 enough. Thats just one thing. 
  
  The lag is horrible worst I have ever seen actualy. Playing with one person is laggy enough but 
 with 4 people it just unplayable even if you 4 have the fastest internet available you'll find 
 your person doing the action you gave them 10 secounds ago and constant freezes and such. The online 
 just is UNPLAYABLE don't get this game if your looking for online in fact don't even get a wii 
 if your looking for online play. Get a 360 or ps3 hardly any lag if there is it doesn't affect 
 you:) there also have better games and graphics and in some cases better game play.
  
  
  
  
  The good- Every thing other then playing online.
  
  The bad- Horrible online. You will 
 get sick of this game after you unlock every character and best sup space (once you beaten sup space 
 you will have evey character almost) and collecting every thing is no worth it I gave up haha. 
 After your done single player multi-player gets boring after awhile without anyone to play with. 
 Again don't count on wi-fi connection it out right sucks in every single way!.
  
  
  Over all this is a most have for wii owners just don't count on online game play. I know I said 
 online sucks so many times well it does. This game has nearly infinite replayability if you have 
 someone to play with. If the online was less laggy this would be one of the funnest games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonxanderPR
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 7:02 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. BRAWL. A game so insanely awaited by Smash fans. For most of us, it's just great 
 fun; for others, it's kinda short. This is how I would summarize it:
  
  -Greatly expanded character roster: includes a total of 35 characters, providing different fighting 
 styles for everybody. Unlike Melee, there are less "clone" characters, although they aren't that 
 clony anymore. Some of them would be Link/Toon Link, Fox/Falco and Ganondorf/Cpt. Falcon. On the 
 other hand, there is one character that is overly advantaged when it comes to competitive gameplay: 
 Meta Knight. Another problem may be that some previous characters were overly toned-down (kirby 
 and DK are good examples) .
  
  -Greater variety of stages: Starting with 29 BRAWL levels, 2 universal levels (Battlefield and 
 Final Destination) , and 10 Melee/Smash 64 levels, ranging from neutral and fair to insanely cruel, 
 giving space for random matches
  
  -STAGE BUILDER!: Even if it won't let you create levels as complex or gorgeous as the ones proided, 
 it provides some space for creativity.
  
  -Adventure mode "THE SUBSPACE EMISSARY": provides 2.5 D platforming ressembling Nintendo's classic 
 platformers, has great cinematics (except for the lack of voice acting and subtitles) and has some 
 good tricky puzzles.
  
  -Practically all what Melee had BRAWL has: all gameplay modes are back someway on BRAWL, some improved, 
 others diminished. The Home-Run Contest is easier and harder at the same time, Multi-Man BRAWL 
 has keener AI, Boss Batlles provides the best single player mode once you're done with everything 
 else; Target Smash isn't character-specific anymore, Classic and All-Star are pretty much the same. 
 My biggest complaint is that the Event Matches are less creative, another lesser complaint would 
 be that vs. Mode matches aren't as customizable as in Melee.
  
  -Online gameplay: I would say it is somewhat lacking and signifficantly disfunctional. With friends, 
 you have acces to all mutliplayer battle modes, Home-Run Contest, and Mutli Man BRAWL. On online 
 play with anyone, the gameplay is limited to 2 min Free-for-All, 2 minute 2 vs. 2 team battles 
 and replay bets. To make it worse, lag is everywhere & custom stages aren't available.
  
  -Perfect for casual players, yet too casual for competitive players: many of the Melee glitches 
 that allowed for several advanced strategies are gone, and physic mechanics are less realistic 
 (Melee felt like battling on Mars, BRAWL feels like battling on the Moon) .
  
  -Not so intelligent AI: even for newcomers like me, the battle mode's AI falls too short in order 
 to provide enough single player fun once you get the hang of the game.
  
  -Great graphics: I would say BRAWL falls on Wii's Top 5 games in visual terms. Maybe the great 
 aesthetics aren't so great in a close-up, but many small details (i. e. the wind visual effects 
 from aikrship stages) make the game look awesome. Some characters look better in BRAWL than in 
 other Wii games (take Mario as an example) .
  
  -Great soundtrack: music is varied and of high quality, both technically and artistically. Voiceovers 
 from characters are just perfect, and other soud effects are nice too.
  
  -So many unlockables!: It would be blasphemy to say that BRAWL has few unlockables. Tell me if 
 700 stickers, 544 trophies, 150+ songs, 12 out of 35 unlockable characters are few unllockables.
 
  
  -Memories to last...: Snapshots and replays are a nice complem to the game (how do you prove that 
 you just have beaten that world record for the Home-Run Contest or that Granny just kicked your 
 big brother's butt?) . The 12 demos included may serve you to lessen or increase your anxiety for 
 Virtual Console titles that you may not have purchased yet.
  
  -Final Smashes!: just what you needed to boost your KO count on desperate times. They may have 
 some competitive potential, if most competitive players learn how to beat them (that may be hard, 
 but is far from impossible in most cases) .
  
  -Controls: All four ways available to play this game work well (maybe the WiiMote used horizontally 
 not so much) with the easy-to-learn actions, so there are almost no excuses to render this game 
 unplayable.
  
  To get the most fun out of it, make sure you have several friends around to play against or along 
 with each other. That's it for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nirvana563
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 10:46 pm PT
Review:  I'm a fairly big Super Smash Bros. fan so I try to look at each game very carefully. Like the title 
 suggests I feel that Melee is best in the series in part due to the memories I have with. Among 
 over reasons but I'll focus more on Brawl seeing how that's the topic at hand.
  
  In this review I'm assuming you (the reader) has played Super Smash Bros. Melee for the Nintendo 
 Gamecube. This review is fairly straight forward, I'll just write about what was good and what 
 was bad from game-to-game.
  
  Anyhow to start off both Melee and Brawl share the same features about equally: Vs. Mode, Tournaments, 
 Classic Mode, Stadium, and Training mode.
  
  There tends not to be much of a difference in these things from game-to-game other then Classic 
 mode has 12 matches instead of 10 and tournaments only go up to 32 players now and not 64.
  
  Things Brawl Did Well or Better On: Graphics, Characters, Adventure Mode, Event Mode, Online 
 WiFi Fights, Unlockable Songs, and Stage Maker
  
  One of the biggest props I can give about the game is it's updated graphics, it was very nicely 
 done. The character roster was for the most part good as a whole not too many disagreements other 
 then I then I feel Roy should be in the game instead of Marth. Adventure has been totally redone 
 and is really cool and creative now it's a real "adventure" now with levels and what not. Event 
 mode now has the choice of difficulty which helps on harder events. Online WiFi fights are great 
 for your playing alone, and stage maker is cool but it's very limited.
  
  Things That Need Some Work On: Maps and Special Fights
  
  The new maps that are in the game 
 are very good but I feel there should be more. And Special fights is not as good this time around 
 since it's more just what rules you want and does not have the different types of fights like invisible 
 or anything like that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoBlueDragonEX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 4:26 pm PT
Review:  The Super Smash Brothers series has been a favorite of many since the Nintendo 64 original was 
 released. I realize there have only been 3 games released, but it won the hearts of many Nintendo 
 fans. Brawl is easily the best in the series. The character roster is massive: 35 characters to 
 wreck your friends with. This game also introduced an adventure mode: The Subspace Emissary. It's 
 a fantastic Action/Platformer that follows a great storyline. All the character's stories are separate, 
 but they all come together to fight Tabuu: the omnipotent main antagonist of the story. Another 
 new feature is the option to create your own stage. So far, I've made 25 stages: No exaggeration. 
 Online play sounds cool, but since my Wii doesn't connect to the Internet, I wouldn't know. Simply 
 brawling is a pleasure itself. Each character has their own unique moves, and their own Final Smash. 
 The Smash Ball, a breakable sphere that lets you unleash an awesome attack, is possibly the most 
 useful addition to Brawling. Other additions, such as the photo album, the new coin launcher, and 
 the minigames, are flawless. My only complaint is that Subspace Emissary can get kind of repetitive. 
 You run, you fight, you open a door, you fight, you run, and it repeats itself. It's still pretty 
 fun, though. Brawl is the ultimate fighting game for the Wii, and it will remain unsurpassed until 
 Nintendo makes another SSB. I got this game the very day it came out, and I'm still hooked on it. 
 My hats are off to Nintendo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SelfTitledGames
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 8, 2009 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Initially it's very fun. Just as it has been since the days of the N64. Bashing all the characters 
 feels just as cathartic as ever. Unfortunately all too soon it seems to fizzle out. It's analogous 
 to the Wii itself: very fun in the beginning, but the gimmick seems to wear off and all that's 
 left is a series of samey fights. Although this iteration of Smash is revitalized a bit by the 
 fun little Subspace Emissary, even that gets old halfway through. Overall not a bad game, but nothing 
 to write home about and even the most hardcore fans could (from personal experience with my roommate) 
 get bored with it pretty quickly. More semi-praise for it is that it's one of about four good Wii 
 games, so if you're looking to validate the purchase it'd be a good addition to a collection, and 
 it might even be fun at parties. 7.0 Nothing special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wikipedian
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2009 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Brawl is the third in a long series of fighting games that differ strongly from the norm. Multi-player 
 is fun, fast and frenetic, when not spastic. But single-player modes are not compelling and is 
 lackluster when compared to it's excellent multiplayer
  
  Brawl is a very accessible fighter with easy-to learn controls that work well and control very 
 precisely. Many of the configurations work really well. Sadly, motion controls go unused.
  
  If there was an album of "Gaming's Greatest Hits", then Brawl will definitely be it. A testament 
 to gaming history, Brawl is filled with nostalgic sounds and graphics. Many of which will leave 
 retro-games in tears of joy.
  
  Single-player Brawls are enjoyable, but lack the madness of playing with real people. Without any 
 cursing or laughter, fighting isn't as enjoyable as it could be. Subspace Emissary is an "Adventure 
 Mode" that has gorgeous graphics as well as tear-wrenching nostalgia, however, it simply isn't 
 that fun. 
  
  Should you have a gaming family or have friends over on a regular basis, get Brawl. It is the best 
 multiplayer experience that you can get. But if you are alone, and don't have friends to play with, 
 consider the more compelling Single Player experiences out there like Galaxy or Corruption. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bballerjp15
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2009 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Since the day that i bought it anytime i have one or more friends with me i play this game. I could 
 honestly play this game for 3 days straight no sleep and not be bored of it. Tons of characters 
 tons of stages. and each character has their own strategy behind them. anything that seemed to 
 be missing in melee is in brawl and problems in melee were fixed in brawl. i only have three bad 
 things to say bout this game
  -custom stages (its great that you get to make your stages but there's not too much you can do 
 with it. the next smash bros should have more customization options)
  -online play (its just okay. they should have online tournaments and other modes like they do in 
 mario kart wii)
  -subspace emissary (it was loads of fun the first time i played it but its kinda bring after you 
 beat it. still better than adventure mode in melee) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parkaar
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2009 5:40 am PT
Review:  I didnt really have any expectations for this game because i havent ever played any games in the 
 series but this game was perfect. Supspace emissary is good but some of the levels are way too long. 
 The main thing about Super smash bros. brawl is the multiplayer and it is great at parties. Another 
 great thing about is its sountrack. Although the supspace emissary doesnt last longer then about 
 8-10 hours so there isnt so much to do for a single player. Although unlocking characters and new 
 stages takes a lot of time, and there is also a mode called events where you have to perform different 
 objectives. There is 37 characters in the game including the unlockable secret ones. There is 12 
 new characters and 12 characters from melee. So basicly this game has something for everybody and 
 i would recommend this game for everybody who owns a wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benjo36
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 3:28 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Melee was a brilliant game and improved on the N64 debut in many ways- more characters, 
 modes and stages. However it was rather shallow in single player. Its sequel, the third installment 
 in the series, Brawl promised to improve on Melee with more of everything, online play, a proper 
 single player adventure and a stage creator (among others) . The wait for Brawl was painstaking, 
 with delays popping up at the last minute. So, after all this time, is Brawl worth buying?
  
  The answer of course is yes. We all knew that Nintendo wouldn't muck it up. But lets go deeper 
 into smash bros brawl.
  
  Characters
  
  The roster eventually reveals 35 playable characters (although you could say 39 because of zelda 
 and samus' transformation and pokemon trainer) . It is very easy to unlock all the characters which 
 is a bit of a shame as its nice to have a big incentive to play for longer. Still, the character 
 models are detailed and they (mostly) all feel different enough but not too different to make it 
 all feel tacked together. Some charcters (like link and samus) are great with projectiles, some 
 are quick and zip around the stage (fox, captain falcon and sonic) and some are heavier and are 
 powerful in the attack (bowser, DK and Dedede) . Some are all rounders like mario and a few seem 
 to have a category of their own. Just to avoid spoilers (as if theres anyone who doesnt know the 
 complete roster) i wont mention these. The new (not unlockable) additions to the roster are mostly 
 very good. Pit is great at recovery and so great for beginners, Diddy Kong is fast and quite unique, 
 Metaknight is a revcovery specialist but also hard-ish to master and play against so not for beginners. 
 Lucas is surprisingly good and is fast and powerful but his up-B move can be tricky to get right. 
 Character-wise, Brawl does not disappoint although its hard not to think of characters that didn' 
 make it and wonder why they aren't included. (Waluigi, King K Rool, Megaman, Dark Samus?!?!?!) . 
 There are also assist trophy items that work in the same way as poke-balls that release a slightly 
 less famous friend to help you out. Its a nice touch
  
  Stages
  
  There are 41 stages overall after completion. However you can add to that using the stage builder, 
 explained later on. Some stages are simple, maybe with a couple of moving platforms and some scroll, 
 either horizontally or vertically, requiring you to catch up with the camera. The variety is well 
 balanced and all the stages feel individual and well stylised according to their respective original 
 game series. After a while though, you may be wanting more, like with the characters. (Bowser Castle, 
 Poke Floats, Peachs Castle?!?!?) Overall, the stages are great and there are many to play on.
 
  
  Game modes
  
  You can choose to battle it out in a multiplayer brawl with many different options and rules, or 
 you can choose from tournaments, classic mode, target test, home run contest, multi man brawl or 
 the subspace emissary single player (and Co-op) adventure mode. There are more modes to be unlocked. 
 The majority of modes are the same as in melee, just with co-op added in (excluding classic) . The 
 subspace emissary is the biggest addition, promising to be hours of platforming fun. Its good, 
 but its not great. The levels can get repetitive and the enemies are pretty generic and rather 
 odd. The bosses are a good addition and do mix up the gameplay a little. Its quite a testament 
 to nintendo that the control system for a fighting game can work for a platformer unchanged. There 
 are many levels to run through, spread across a large map. It can take some time to complete. Inbetween 
 each level is a lovely looking cutscene to tell the story (though as there is no speech or writing, 
 it can be hard to understand the story) . The characters look especially great in these cutscenes 
 and its interesting to see characters from different franchises bond. In general, the main adventure 
 mode is much improved on melee's attempt but its not worth getting excited about. In the modes 
 department, Brawl does very well, especially when you consider how limited some modern games can 
 be.
  
  Online
  
  Simply put, the online play is very very limited. There arent many modes and friend codes hinder 
 its enjoyment. Its such a shame. Lag can often be a major problem and often, connecting to an opponent 
 can take some time. Just a big let down.
  
  Replay Value
  
  The trophies from Melee return, along with stickers. There are hundreds to unlock and its cool 
 to look at the trophies and read about them. The new challenges board is great as it really gets 
 you playing. Many people will even try completing on the game modes on all difficulties with every 
 character to make them play for longer. There's a lot to do in Brawl, thats for sure. Whether you 
 enjoy themed fights or special brawls or collecting or beating your high scores. Its packed in 
 terms of replay value.
  
  Stage builder
  
  As with online play, the stage builder is limited. There are only 3 themes and the set of pieces 
 to use is rather small. Its fun for a while but its not enough to really get your attention. Also, 
 the music that plays while you build a stage may make your head spin. Its annoying. That brings 
 me nicely onto music...
  
  Music
  
  The music in Brawl is absolutely amazing. One of the best and most varied video game soundtracks 
 ever. Each stage has about 4-10 different tracks that can be played on the stage. You can change 
 the frequency of how often music will play which is a great touch if theres music you dont like. 
 
  
  Graphics
  
  Its a good looking game. Obviously its not a patch on the 360 or the PS3 but its one of the better 
 games on the wii graphics wise.
  
  Overall
  
  Super Smash Brothers Brawl has to be one of the most highly anticipated games ever. Its safe to 
 say that it does live up to the hype. It has nearly everything going for it, with a few minor negative 
 points. The fact that it has its down sides is actually good because it means that a probable sequel 
 will only look even better compared to Brawl. It has to be one of the best wii games out there; 
 maybe even the best.
  
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MightyZagaro
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Years ago, people would not shut up about Brawl. "OMG GENO FOR BRAWL!" "OMG WALUIGI ASSIST!" "HEY 
 STEVE LOOK WHO THEY JUST CONFIRMED FOR BRAWL! IT'S SNAKE! AWESOME!" I, myself, was amongst these 
 people semi-excited for Brawl. And Brawl has been here for quite some time.... and WOW, is it underwhelming 
 considering all the hype. 
  
  Graphics: 6/10
  
  There's no excuse for this. We know the Wii can do better. While the graphics aren't PAINFUL to 
 look at, remember the jump from SSB to SSBM? Comparing the two was night and day. Here, there's 
 barely any noticeable difference. Yes, graphics aren't equivalent to gameplay, as any gamer knows, 
 but there's REALLY no excuse for this, when you factor in how much more powerful the Wii is.
  
  Sound: 11/10
  
  This is by far the best aspect of Brawl. The sound in this game is gorgeous. 
 From catchy remixes of classic tunes [Kid Icarus theme and Mute City remix come to mind instantly] 
 to the original tunes themselves, Brawl has everything you could ask for in a soundtrack.
  
  Story: 0/10
  
  It's a SSB game. You were expecting...? Well, there is a "story" mode, but 
 not only does the actual story SUCK, the gameplay of it is even worse.... more on that later.
  
  Gameplay: 4/10
  
  Okay, what the hell happened here? Not only has the gameplay been SLOWED 
 DOWN, an incredibly idiotic move [WHY? WHY would you slow down a fighting game?! Fighting games 
 are meant to be fast-paced fist-flying action!" TRIPS have also been added. Randomly and for no 
 reason, your character will FALL DOWN. I'm not kidding. It's a fatal one two punch that really 
 bugs down the gameplay compared to Melee. There's the new characters, yes, but the ones that aren't 
 clones [Lucas and Toon Link] are mostly way too similar: Almost every new addition plays almost 
 the same way: Fast with little killing power [And ridiculous recoveries] . In addition to all of 
 this, Ike and Lucario are just Roy and Mewtwo with original/reworked movesets. Assist Trophies? 
 So what? They're pokeballs that spit out Nintendo characters. Smash Balls? Melee had enough problems 
 with changing the gameplay from Smash Brothers to Mario Kart [Hey, let's see who can grab the Hammer 
 first!] , we do not need more. The final smashes are eye candy, and poor eye candy at that. Nothing 
 more. None of these new additions even compensate for the gameplay.
  
  And then... there's the subspace emissary or what the crap ever. Oh my god. It's horrible.  
 You run through a stage and beat the crap out of the same enemies.... over and over again. Considering 
 the fact that these stages are very uninspired and mazelike at times, this is NOT fun. Adventure 
 mode could at the very least keep you entertained by giving you enemies that DIDN'T die in one 
 or two hits and actually did a good job at fighting back and moving and all that. The SSE is just 
 mind numbing repetitiveness. It's one of... no, THE worst minigame thing ever created, providing 
 it even counts as a minigame.
  
  There's online? Too bad the online sucks. Not only is there too much lag, the controls feel very 
 slippery [Captain Falcon will often slip off the stage just by moving, and Lucas and Ness will 
 NEVER be able to get back to the stage with their recovery move] and it just kills any enjoyment 
 of the game when you lose not by any fault of your own, but because an 8 year old got to the item 
 before you di- I mean, because your controls were screwed to Mars and back.
  
  Control: 10/10
  
  No complaints here. Don't like the Wii controls? Plug in your old gamecube 
 controller.... Or better yet, plug your gamecube controller back into your gamecube and play a SSB 
 game that's actually good.
  
  Overall: 5/10
  
  One step forward and several steps backwards, Brawl fails to live up to the hype and proves to 
 be a very disappointing experience for a very overhyped game. Better luck next time, Nintendo. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smash_King_
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2009 8:21 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing probably my favorite game for the wii.
  Its great a multiplayer and single player game.
  Most people say it isn't a great improvement 
 compared to smash bros melee. But i think its a lot better.
  It can be a competitive game with tournaments or u can just play simple 1-4 players with your buds.
 
  
  In brawl there is a wide variety of characters to chose from and you can develop many favorites.
 
  
  The multiplayer game play is never the same because random things will always happen. (especially 
 with all the newly added items and levels)
  
  The new co-op system for the all star mode, target test, home run contest and etc is really good. 
 so that u don't always have to be playing brawls for multiplayer.
  
  The subspace emissary was really fun i thought. basic platformer that reminds me a lot of previous 
 Kirby games. (pink switches that open doors, launch pads on the floor, bomb blocks that blow up 
 normal blocks or light up the room, etc) Although during the subspace you unlocked the majority 
 of the characters which i thought was a mistake seeing as in i like to unlock things by having 
 a challenge but it was still great.
  
  The online gameplay is kind of disappointing. you cant play 1v1 random matches and they have to 
 be 2 min K. O fest matches u cant change the settings to stock or other settings. The fact that 
 you need a wii code to add people isn't a downfall for smash bros itself but for all wii games. 
 The online gameplay with you friends is well done its like having a normal brawl match and up to 
 4 people can join at any time.
  
  Overall i think this is by far the best wii game and it should have been rated 10 but 9.5 is still 
 great.
  
  my suggestion buy this game it has tons of replay value and its amazing at party's or just with 
 a couple of friends
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChamomileBaths
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 11:30 pm PT
Review:  I live in a college dorm and every single person there plays one version of Smash. Whether it's 
 64, Melee, or Brawl everyone has their favorite.
  
  If you don't know what Smash is it's an up to 4 player fighting game where the object is to knock 
 other players off the screen. If you want to see how it plays check it right here on Gamespot or 
 go to Youtube.
  
  Instead of giving another review here's my story on why the game is the complete package for an 
 all-in-one game.
  -Casual
  You'll probably start playing this game with items on and literally just trying to smash each other 
 around. It's a lot of mindless fun and you can even do this online.
  -Competitive
  I've played this game for over 100 hours about 95 of those are here. Competitive play. I'm trying 
 to learn this game and become an accomplished player. I'm a preying mantice studying from a master, 
 I've got much to learn. But each new combo I learn gives another shock to my system.
  -Engrossing
  I sit down with friends and play this for an hour 3 or 4 times a week, In a dorm 
 don't even bother getting another game.
  -Customizable controls
  -Varied
  You can create levels and try to balance them and iterate on them to make very playble and fun 
 additions so that you don't tire of normal Smash play.
  -Extremely replayable
  as a result of all of this mentioned above.
  
  When I'm not playing this game with friends 
 I can build levels. My friends and I play those levels find problem with them and I go back and 
 fix them for next time. I keep the local Smash community satisfied. Please carry carry the torch. 
 Pass the tradition on down to your friends and accomplices. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3dfd
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 5:59 pm PT
Review:  I was always wondered how this game could get 9s and 10s, cause to me it looked a little dark, 
 cause all you do is brawl. i thought you'd get sick of it. I thought I'd like Super Mario Galaxy 
 more, because it has a heck of a lot more courses. And as it turns out, this is the best game I've 
 ever played. It includes characters for my favorite games like Mario, Donkey Kong, Sonic the Hedgehog, 
 Zelda, Metroid, Kirby, StarFox, and so on. Each character has unique attacks, Mario has fireballs, 
 Samus has missiles, Snake has gernade launchers, and Kirby and King Dedeed have inhale. Some of 
 the music may get mildly annoying, but the graphics and gameplay simply amaze my mind. I also think 
 the level designer is a lot better than the one on Boom Blox. As you can tell, I love this game 
 and higly recommend it to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheifrobotic
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2009 10:53 am PT
Review:  The game can be addicting but it will start to get REALLY boring if you are addicted and you probably 
 won't want to play it much more after you start to get just slightest bit bored of it. The game 
 has some good and bad things and here are the things that i think are good and bad
  
  The Bad things.
  
  The game was said to this awesome super smash bros game but it was no better 
 then melee. 
  
  The subspace emmisionary was so boring but you got unlock most of if not all characters in it.
 
  
  The online is very laggy for me at least it was. The friend code thing to get friends on isn't 
 so great but it's for all wii games online. 
  
  They should have kept the way they had the target test before, but in this one they all have the 
 same target test.
  
  
  Now for the good things.
  
  The home run contest is fun especially since you can use 2 people in and there is a shield so you 
 can really rack up the damage; p.. 
  
  They kept the all-star and classic but got rid of the adventure but that wasn't that great anyway 
 and now you can use 2 people in the classic and all-star part of the game. 
  
  There is a lot of characters to choose from that weren't in melee.
  
  Fun game to play if you 
 just have people over and you feel like playing a game.
  
  You can use the game cube controllers, (the wii motes are always annoying and pricey to buy more 
 than one)
  
  You can use the C stick on one player and multi.
  
  You take videos of your matches home run contest etc.
  
  And final smashes are fun.
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adrianfbuan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 4:44 am PT
Review:  Great and that's it.
  
  My cousin told me to buy it, and I didn't regret it.
  Back when I was a kid, I used to play SSB in the N64, it was great, even I didn't know what I was 
 doing. There are so many characters, so you have to choose one, fast. Once you started with Mario, 
 stick with it. The character you pick should be the same... It's your style and its hard to change.
 
  
  I started playing this game with my cousin. It was fun from the start, even I if didn't know the 
 controls yet.
  
  The controls are pretty simple. There's a smash attack and special attack. If you combine them 
 with a move on the Nunchuk, the combinations are endless. There are many styles of controls, Wiimote, 
 Wiimote-Nunchuk, Classic Controller, and GCN controller... and in each style, you can set your own 
 controls.
  
  At first, we only played 'Brawl.' Its the classic mode. Players battle it out on a stage. It can 
 be big as New York, or as small as your frontyard. You can play as a Team or Endless Rivals. The 
 graphics are great. You can take pictures of your game, which is fun, so you can relive your greatest 
 battles. You can also save replays too. Each character's color can be changed too. Mario can wear 
 Wario's clothes.
  
  I didn't notice there was an adventure mode in this game, The Subspace Emissary. It wasn't that 
 fun at the start. But when we did multiplayer on this one, it was fun. Killing enemies is fun, 
 if you do it with a buddy, more fun. The annoying thing is when your buddy is too slow to catch 
 up with your skills, haha. You get to battle bosses, which is cool. The graphics are great too.
 
  
  The best thing that I like in The Subspace is the Cinematics. They are so cool. It shows what the 
 Wii can do.
  
  Tourney can be a great way to see who's the best.
  
  The soundtrack is great. There are so many tunes and are really great that they'll make you add 
 them to your iPod.
  
  Like the sounds, there are a lot of items to collect. There are stickers and the Trophies. The 
 trophies are a great way to know the character's, or item's history and why they got into the game.
 
  
  The items can turn the table around. If you use your head and be creative, these simple items can 
 kill your buddy offscreen. One can notice that an item that is thrown before it works (eg. Pokeball) 
 if it hits an enemy before it activates, it can throw him offscreen.
  
  There are many secrets too, like the springboard jump.
  
  The game is so great. It's like an 
 ad for the other Nintendo games. I got to know other Nintendo games. Brawl is a great game that 
 it's an ad in disguise.
  
  Brawl is a sum-up of what Nintendo and the Wii is all about.
  
  Good graphics, Good gameplay, good Controls.
  And that's what makes Brawl, one of the best 
 games in the Wii to date.
  I've never seen a game stay in the Top10 for so long.
  
  Great game. Congratulations Nintendo, another Job-Well-Done
  Two Thumbs Up, Way Up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SquallShadow
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2009 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl.... what can i say? I can say that even though SSBM was extremely fun, this 
 blew that game out of the water. I can say that the character roster is much cooler than before. 
 I can also that this is the best wii game thus far. Either way this game is a MUST HAVE for all 
 wii owners.
  
  I finally decided to review this game even after having this game since the US launch. The weird 
 thing about this game is that I have had for nearly a whole year and the fun meter maybe went from 
 a 10 out 10 to maybe a 9.6 out of 10. The initial hype that many had did go down but that didn't 
 mean this game got boring.
  
  Graphics:8 pretty good graphics and nice details on many characters like Samus ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: locopr13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Smash brother is one of the best fighting game ever this game have a simple fighting system with 
 great graphics complemented with great parts and some new characters that make this game feel alive 
 in so much ways the multiplayer is great but the online is sometimes laggy the new characters are 
 great the attacks are nice .But the bad thing of the game that smash have never evolve and stay 
 on the same things but still i love this game. But the new long story is sometimes boring and is 
 always the same thing in the story parts but with differents characters this have a very exiting 
 multiplayer my expetection are good about this game and for the people that plays wii this is one 
 of the best titles on wii. Is a cool action game with nothing more to give to a player of fighting 
 game i dont like the online because you have to wait a lot of minutes to make someone appears. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaMissed2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 8:38 pm PT
Review:  
  Review: Super Smash Bros. Brawl
  
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is the follow-up to the highly successful Super Smash Bros. for the N64 
 and the system selling Super Smash Bros. Melee on the Gamecube. Super Smash Bros. Brawl is one 
 of the most highly anticipated games to be released for Nintendo? s newest home console the Wii. 
 But can it live up to the hype? Or will it be a disappointment like a few other highly anticipated 
 games released recently?
  
  Story:
  As with every game in the Smash Bros series, all of Nintendo's main characters have come together 
 in a knock-down drag-out free for all to the bitter end, and only one may leave the arena with 
 the title Champion. Included are characters from Pokemon, Zelda, Mario games, Donkey Kong, F-Zero, 
 Fire Emblem, Ice Climbers, Star Fox, Earthbound, Metroid, and more, but this time they are joined 
 by some characters from 3rd party publishers that have published games for Nintendo consoles including 
 Sonic the Hedgehog, and Snake from the Metal Gear games.
  
  Graphics:
  There have been a lot of good looking games released on the Wii in the past year, Metroid Prime 
 Corruption, Super Mario Galaxy, being high among them. Good news folks Super Smash Brothers Brawl 
 can be included in this list. Visually the game looks as good as it can, the stages look great, 
 like exact representations of games that they were meant to emulate, and sometimes going as far 
 as looking even better than the games that they are representing.
  
  Music:
  The music in Super Smash Bros. Brawl, as it was with it's predecessor, is top notch, actually using 
 remixed or orchestral versions of the main Scores used in each characters game, and utilizing such 
 renown composers as Yasunori Mitsuda, Shogo Sakai, Masafumi Takada, and Nobuo Uematsu. the sound 
 and voice acting is extremely well done for each character, especially in some of the more comedic 
 moments (in the case for Snake and Luigi) and the stages have their own unique sounds and effects 
 which add to the rich layered sounds that are pulled off, which help lend them selves to the belief 
 that this collage of characters have found themselves in other games and different surroundings 
 battling to the death.
  
  Control:
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl's controls are tight and very responsive, as well as easy to pick up and 
 difficult to master. Quite literally the game can be played by even the most inexperienced novice, 
 but will inspire many to train to be superior at only a handful of characters. A nice touch is 
 the fact that you can control the game with either the Wiimote alone, or the Wiimote and Nunchuck, 
 or the Classic Controller or how most of us will play it, with the Gamecube controller. Each character 
 plays like how you might think that they might play like in a real battle situation. but there 
 is a problem in that even if you do manage to master the difficult techniques you may find yourself 
 sticking to a few combos that you find highly effective, and lesser experienced players will just 
 mash on the buttons to potential victory, but you will find that those whom take the time to learn 
 the nuances the of game can beat almost anyone that they face, and find the work very rewarding. 
 But what makes this game interesting is the intense 4 player multiplayer which on its own makes 
 this game worth owning, you and your friends will be playing this for days on end like my friends 
 and I ended up doing.
  
  Design:
  The Design team did a great job here! Each character is unique as are the stages designed after 
 the games the characters are originally from represent them well. There are a million and one different 
 game modes options and hidden characters to unlock and play through that add almost unlimited depth 
 to this title and make the available options in Super Smash Brothers Brawl look minuscule by comparison, 
 I for one just keep running into new things to do and new things to accomplish every time I play 
 the game. Then we come down to the online play. Once again done with friend codes as all Wii games 
 seem to be but the game play is worth it, I have yet to run into slowdown, and my connection has 
 been suspect for weeks, bout you wouldn't be able to tell it through the online play, it plays 
 as well as if you were playing in the room with 3 other friends. If there is one thing that I was 
 hoping to see though it was more 3rd party characters, especially from Game Arts, since they made 
 this game I would have loved to see at least one character from either the Lunar, or Grandia series, 
 or even the Castlevania, or Skies of Arcadia since they had gotten the license to use other characters 
 from Sega and Konami
  
  Super Smash Bros Brawl, is a fun and outstanding experience! All Nintendo Wii owners should have 
 this game already, and if you don't go buy it now, call your friends, and throw a party!
  
  
  Super Smash Brothers Brawl:
  
  Pros:
  More Characters
  Fun Multiplayer
  Easy to control
 
  There should be a character for everyone
  Long replayability
  
  Cons:
  Still can break down to button mashing
  Still only feels like a slight upgrade
  Still would 
 have liked to see more characters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XCyberForceX
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2009 7:16 am PT
Review:  Opinion - When I first started playing this game's brawl mode I was immediately reminded of Shrek 
 Super Slam (S3) . Shields for blocking, knocking your opponent off the screen (or even up against 
 the TV screen) , and power modes for really letting your opponent have it, all seem similar to S3. 
 However, this game was more refined and well thought out.
  
  Positive - The story line is well plotted out and could have been a movie in itself, simply awesome. 
 I was particularly shocked at how long the story was, which makes this game well worth the money 
 with its hours of fun. The ability to make your own brawl screen was a fantastic addition to bring 
 tons of fun after the game is mastered and the addition of classic games like donkey kong and ice 
 climbers brought back many memories. My son keep on asking me did you play this game when you were 
 my age? It was a great way to cross the gap.
  
  Negative - Uh, let me see. More characters. Look, there were alot there already and I guess I may 
 have gotten spoiled because now I want all of them!
  :-)
  
  Overall - This game is a A (9.0) . It did everything it set out to do and more. It's an excellent 
 game well worth the money with a fun factor pushing close to a perfect score. It's no surprise 
 that it got the award that it deserved for 2008! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreySeven
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  SSBB is BEST when played online or with friends. I say this first because single player play feels 
 a lot like drowning in a giant pool of wet and smelly socks. In fact, the only value in playing 
 the single player modes is to gain character unlocks while your friends are out having fun IRL. 
 Don't worry... they'll invite you next time.
  
  But the appeal of a SSB game has NEVER been in the single player modes and ALWAYS getting your 
 buddies together to mash buttons and scream in agony when Samus mops the floor with your ass. Don't 
 feel bad, it happens all the time.
  
  I like the SSB series because of the collision of Nintendo Universes and beyond. This is the only 
 game where you can pit just about any character against one another from the Nintendo Universes 
 and special guests from other universes too. You know who they are, now pick your favorite and 
 I will mop the floor with you using Samus. Get over it.
  
  There is no other game where so much chaos can happen on a screen in so little time and be so much 
 damned fun. Everything has some sort of Nintendo cameo appearance in SSBB in the form of an item 
 or character or special level and so on. 
  
  You don't need to be a skilled player to have a good time and win some rounds against your friends, 
 you can go into this game basing all your wins on luck and button mashing. I, however, am skilled 
 and see through button mashing madness into the depths within and thereby mop the floor with you 
 playing as Samus. Eat it. 
  
  Pick up this game and connect to the internet. Samus will mop the floor with you.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokemonaces
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2008 12:25 am PT
Review:  This is definitely the best game for the Wii series! Super smash brothers melee fought its way 
 to the Wii and changed its title as super smash brothers brawl. With classic characters to use, 
 this game is enjoyable even if you didn't unlock all the characters but it would be more fun if 
 you did! With immerse game play and new characters like the surprisingly invited snake and the 
 speed demon sonic! This game also has tons of cool modes like coin launcher were you can unlock 
 a box full of trophies and stickers. You can also make your own stage, customize it with torturing 
 platforms or a very simple stage, the choice is yours! Finally the online activities were you can 
 fight your friends online or other people around the world, you can also share your videos and 
 pictures you have saved in brawl so far! Super smash brothers brawl has earned its title as the 
 best game for the wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sagax03
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  OKAY yaya new smash bros that took 7 freakin years to make.. yay. hopefully the next will come out 
 in at least 3 years. anyway i like this game is kiddish sorta with the hammer and stuff.. you see 
 over the 7 years nintendo took to make this game i got into tekken and DBZ and naruto and stuff. anyway 
 i still like it failed and passed expectaions lets see why.
  
  Story- This is actually a pretty cool story that i just love .. so what happens is that these .. i 
 dunno dark things led by the evil leader tabuu ,none knows what he is and everyone thinks that 
 masterhand is most likely behind it even though masterhand gets killed...... yeah. this is the most 
 mature thing in the new game which im fine with. ive actually been dieing to play a kiddish 3d /2dfighting 
 style fighting game. there is little dialoge and if you completed it you should know the one and 
 only solid snake says some small words. and anyway each charecters make "teams" at the begging there 
 are 2 people in each one, like mario and pit, samus and pikachu or diddy kong and fox. its cool and 
 evryone meets up in the end. (and then sonic kills tabuu in the end) .
  S-Perfect-10.10
  
  Gameplay- Wow it almost passed all my gameplay expectations. for starters i was blown away by the 
 controls. you can use rail  controller, AND gamecube controller. even 
 though using the wiimote+nunchuck is a good choice it is better to use a gamecube controller. why? 
 because all the buttons are in the right place and its easier to execute attacks. know next thing 
 is the actual fighting, there is a punch+kick button, a special button ,a jump button and a block 
 button its simple and fun. theres alot of characters variton. though i was hoping for megamn... oh 
 well. then the modes there is a ton you can make stages and go ONLINE.
  S-perfect-10.10.
  
  VA-theres no VA so it doesnt count.
  
  Graphics/Design- its improved and better than before. i 
 was blown away.
  S-Perfect-10.10.
  
  Multiplayer-theres ton to do go online battle with friends and even go on teams.
  
  Music-EPIC 
 THATS OIT JUST EPIC.
  S-Perfect-10.10.
  
  Overall- Thats it its perfect and MEGA IMPROVED well thast it gotta go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: busterboots
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  This game is the the best game that I have played in a while. The game has the perfect amount of 
 people and is worth the $50.00. If you ask anybody they will say it is very superb, fantastic and 
 excellent. The game also has a perfect balance of stages and items. New items. New characters. 
 New stages. New features. This game is excellent and I give it a 10/10. The Nintendo WFC is a really 
 great idea if you want to play against other people then your family and friends. Stage Builder 
 is a great idea too. It gives people a chance to express their inner ideas. Definitely a great 
 idea by Nintendo. 
 
  
 
  (ignore periods)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordDespair
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2008 6:03 am PT
Review:  Following its predecessors, Brawl uses a battle system unlike that of typical fighting games. Players 
 can choose from a large selection of characters, each attempting to knock their opponents off the 
 screen as they fight on various stages. Instead of using traditional health bars that start at 
 100% and lose value, Brawl characters start the game with 0% and the value rises as they take damage. 
 As a character's percentage increases, the character flies farther back when hit. When a character 
 is knocked beyond a stage's boundary and disappears from the screen, the character loses either 
 a life or a point depending on the mode of play. Brawl includes a function which allows players 
 to create profiles with personalized button configurations for each control method along with their 
 chosen username.
  
  The characters fight each other using a variety of attacks. Players execute each move by pressing 
 a button in conjunction with a tilt of the control stick or a press of the D-pad, depending on 
 the mode of control. In addition to basic attacks, characters have access to more powerful moves, 
 known as smash attacks. Each character has four unique moves, which often cause effects besides 
 damage to an opponent. Brawl introduces the ability to perform character-specific super attacks, 
 referred to as "Final Smash" moves. Significantly more powerful than regular attacks, these moves 
 have a wide variety of effects that range from nearly unavoidable blasts to temporary transformations. 
 Final Smash moves may be performed upon destroying a Smash Ball, an item bearing the Smash Bros. 
 logo.
  
  Characters can use items ranging from projectiles to melee weapons; each has a different effect 
 on the characters around it. Although many items have returned from previous Super Smash Bros. 
 games, new ones have been introduced as well. Some returning items have changed appearance and 
 function. Two varieties of items, Assist Trophies and Pok Balls, temporarily summon guest characters 
 and Pokmon, respectively, that generally aid the summoner. They cannot be controlled by players 
 and are usually invincible.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lunt13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  I don't think getting all the awards is achievable unless this is the only game you play, which 
 for me is not. Figuring the game out takes a little more than a few hours, but luckily I have found 
 a great way to get those CD's that randomly appear which are songs, like if four of us are playing 
 I just tell them to not attack and someone go after the CD because I do have all those CD's currently 
 but some of the other awards seem a little insane, beating the game in story mode on all difficulties 
 and unlocking everything was not a challenge its just some of those insane boss battles and crazy 
 extra stuff they threw in this time that makes beating the game 100% seem almost impossible.
  
  I enjoy the game very much though. Playing it can almost seem relaxing at times, thrown in 
 with the music it makes it well worth having, its definitely a game I am going to keep around. 
 Although the controls are not as great as the 64 version of this, I think the new style of fighting 
 they are imposing makes it a bit more of a workout. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flamer400
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is possibly the best game I have ever played in my lifetime. The first 
 day I was excited about getting it from Play N Trade in the summer and when I got it I was so excited 
 and did not know that in my hands I held the greatest game in Super Smash Bros. history. It first 
 starts out where of course you have to unlock the characters: Jigglypuff, Captain Falcon, Sonic, 
 Luigi, Snake, Lucario, Ness, Falco, Mr. Game & Watch, Toon Link, Wolf, R. O. B., Ganondorf, and Marth. 
 It's a surprise that they had Snake in Super Smash Bros. Brawl. It also has The Subspace Emissary 
 which is an easier way to get every character and you have to go through all these worlds and stop 
 an evil force controlled by Ganondorf, Bowser, and King DeDeDe and at the end you have to battle 
 Tabuu and beat every single character and go through a maze. There is also a new feature, Co-Op 
 Events, Home Run Contests, Multi Man Brawl, and Target Run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingMind
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  
  It's hard to explain in writing just how amazing a game like Brawl truly is. It really does have 
 everything you could possibly ask for out of a game. And there is so much content to the game, you 
 will be playing it for years to come.
  
  The premise of Brawl is Nintendo characters are out to beat the heck out of each other. With Smash 
 attacks, special moves with each character and a huge amount of items; such as red shells, baseball 
 bats and bombs. To win a Brawl you must knock your opponet out of the various well detailed levels. It 
 sounds simple but there are so many way to get the job done everyone will have there own unique 
 strategy of doing things which really makes the game fun to play with three other players.
  
  Brawl really hits it home with it's HUGE roster. Not everyone is here. But the roster is very 
 very well improved. There are less clones and more unique characters. And even guest characters Solid 
 Snake and Sonic. And the regulars you would expect like Mario, Link and Samus. AND maybe some you 
 have no idea are even Nintendo characters like Pit and King Dedede (I knew they were nintendo characters) .
 
  
  Levels are also a huge improvement. There a lot more fun to play on this time and there is a lot 
 more going on in the levels. Such as a huge top of an iceberge that you and three others are fighting 
 on crumbles and falls down into the water. BUT THE FIGHT CONTINUES, but watch out for a crazy big 
 fish that wants to make you dinner! And if you like calmer levels you got those levels to, and a 
 handful of ones from Melee. This game really gives everyone something to enjoy. And there is even 
 a well done map editor. GIVING you ENDLESS possibilities.
  
  There are all sorts of modes to keep you busy. An improved Single Player that is more fun then ever 
 combining platforming and fighting. AND the single player modes are really where you will be unlocking 
 most of your stuff for multiplayer action. And other modes like multi-man melee and classic mode 
 return as well. There is also all-star and challenges, and you can do mostly all of this with a coop 
 buddy!!
  
  Wifi is also added into the mix, adding more replay value to Smash Brothers then ever before. Each 
 match will be a new foe that has a brain and will most likely give you a heck of a challenge.
 
  
  Graphics are also well done in Brawl. Brawl looks amazing. It's not perfection. But the graphics have 
 a great style, and all these universes Nintendo created fits in well with one another. So from the 
 story cut scenes to characters and levels, Brawl looks amazing.
  
  Epic is the only word that could possibly describe the games music. Everything sounds beautiful. AND 
 the majority of the music is music you would want playing if you were in a real fight. It sounds 
 amazing and it's one of the best sounding games made in recent memory.
  
  Overall, I could go on and on about how amazing Brawl is, but people that read can only read so long 
 before getting bored. So I'll sum it up. Brawl may not be perfect in every area. But it deserves a 
 ten for it's heart, and the developers deserve all the credit through the hell they went through 
 to bring this game to us. If you're a gamer of any kind. Buy Brawl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrinityCat
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  I've played all the Smash Bros. games and this one is bigger than the other two, but still, it 
 has it's flaws.
  
  This game is definitely one of the best Multiplayer games i've ever played! Now with new and more 
 characters, Wi-Fi, a cinematic adventure, custom levels, events (missions) and more.
  
  The adventure is great, you get to play with familiar characters like Mario, Kirby, Link and new 
 characters like R. O. B, Snake and Sonic. You can also play the adventure with a friend or family. 
 (2 players)
  
  The gameplay is simple but fun. It is HIGHLY recommendable that you play with the Wii Classic Controller 
 or with the Nintendo Gamecube Controller, somehow, the Wiimote + nunchuk isn't quite comfortable 
 and it does take time to get used to it if you use it that way. Controls are practically the same 
 as Melee, in which makes a bit easier to manage especially on the Wii Classic Controller and on 
 the Nintendo Gamecube Controller. 
  
  The graphics are superior than the other two SSB games and you will notice it the minute you start 
 playing. It's bright, colorful, tight, well done.
  
  The extras (Custom levels, events, target practice, special brawl, more) just simply adds up more 
 fun to the game especially if you are with a friend or family.
  
  The one thing that failed a bit was the Wi-Fi connection. As strong as it tries to be, there are 
 times that the lagging is just too much and there are times that you get disconnected for no reason 
 at all, even if your playing with a friend or someone else from your own country (regional) .
  
  But other than that, this is the best Nintendo game of the year and it is a must-play, must-buy! 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pitthepunisher
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  This will be hard to start. Where to start, where to start. I will start with the fact that this 
 is the best competitive multiplayer there is. The characters add a different twist to each battle, 
 the items can change a battle entirely. Creating you own stages is awesome, making this the BEST 
 GAME EVER. The single player mode is great, but not amazing. But when you are done, you have every 
 character, and the end boss is really hard, even on easy. This is the most competitive multiplayer 
 you will ever play. With so many stages/character combinations, the starting lineup is almost never 
 the same. It has the pure fighter stages (final destination) the big stages (New Pork City) the 
 wacky stages (Warioware and Pictochat) and the retro stages (Hyrule Temple) . And you can tern off 
 certain items, making wacky matcher. Bombfest anyone? Or maybe a homerun contest? Or maybe just 
 smash balls? and speaking of smash Balls, they are a great addition. Ones like DKs, Jigglypuffs, 
 and Kirbys only work on small stages. Some only work from close range. The sweet ones, though, 
 are harnessed by the slow characters, because they dont get them as much. I have to go. This game 
 rocks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abodow
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2008 4:16 am PT
Review:  i have all super smash bros:
  
  super smash bros.64
  
  super smash bros. melee
  
  super smash bros. brawl
  
  very good very good very gververy goody goodooddvery very goodgoovery 
 goodvery gooddvervvery good very good very gververy goody goodooddvery very goodgoovery goodvery 
 gooddververy goody goodvery goodery goody goodvery goodvery good very good very gververy goody 
 goodooddvery very goodgoovery goodvery govery good very good very gververy goody goodooddvery very 
 goodgoovery goodvery gooddververy goody goodvery goododdververy goody goodvery goodvery good very 
 good very gververy goody goodooddvery very goovery good very good very gververy goody goodooddvery 
 very goodgoovery goodvery gooddververy goody goodvery gooddgoovery goodvery gooddververygoody goovery 
 good very good very gververy goody goodooddvery very goodgoovery goodvery gooddvervvery good very 
 good very gververy goody goodooddvery very goodgoovery goodvery gooddververy goody goodvery goodery 
 goody goodvery goodvery good very good very gververy goody goodooddvery very goodgoovery goodvery 
 govery good very good very gververy goody goodooddvery very goodgoovery goodvery gooddververy goody 
 goodvery goododdververy goody goodvery goodvery good very good very gververy goody goodooddvery 
 very goovery good very good very gververy goody goodooddvery very goodgoovery goodvery gooddververy 
 goody goodvery gooddgoovery goodvery gooddververy goody goodvery gooddvery good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WoW_Gamer111
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2008 3:07 am PT
Review:  This game is sort of an expansion to super smash bros. melee and when I bought this game, I thought 
 It would never be as good as melee and ohhh boy was I wrong.
  
  This game is actually a lot better, it had easy ti remember controls, the characters were all very 
 well detailed and so were there attacks.
  
  With the addition to the special attack a character could gain by destroying one of the flying 
 balls in-game was great because each different character had a unique special attack of their own.
 
  
  
  
  The game also had its classical and new storyline. To unlock new characters, players had to play 
 a number of brawls and eventually after the right number of brawls, a new character will pop up 
 and u will have to beat him/her .
  
  
  The game also had a great multiplayer mode which could be played with friends or people all over 
 the world on the online mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam2k9
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 28, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  This one i actually had semi-high hopes for. once i saw the screens for link and all the other 
 nintendo characters i absolutely cant stand and wish a fiery death on, i was decently impressed 
 by what the wii was doing. but in the end, it turned out to be crap. too short, too boring, and 
 too simplistic, not to mention WAYYYYY TOO OVER-HYPED. this isn't the worst fighting game of all 
 time by far, but its just too kiddish and pathetic for me. If nintendo actually did something RIGHT 
 with their hardware, they might have been able to make an actually mature fighting game, and still 
 have all the characters in there and made them look really freakin good. but they didnt do anything 
 right with the hardware, so it didnt happen. simple as that. i will say that my fav stage is the 
 zelda stage with the heat waves in the bg. thats semi impressive... for about 3yrs ago. i still 
 dont understand why people even play this, really. its so freakin boring. i was done in about 2hrs 
 if that, and wanted to move on to the next game... on a different system, thankfully. so all in 
 all, unless u r a 100% true die hard nintendo fan that loves little kiddie crap like this, dont 
 waste ur money on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ForgottenLives
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  There are few games that are as loved by gamers as Super Smash Bros. and for a good reason: the 
 series boasts simple yet addictive gameplay, fluid controls, and an unparalleled amount of unlockable 
 content. The newest entry in the vaunted franchise, Super Smash Bros. Brawl, retains all the elements 
 that made the first two titles such classics and expanded upon the established formula in every 
 imaginable way.
  
  Full House
  
  The roster of fighters has always been one of the greatest strengths of the Smash series, and Brawl 
 ups the ante with the biggest and most well-balanced roster to date. Solid Snake is perhaps the 
 most anticipated new comer, and fans will not be disappointed with his performance. Snake is a 
 well balanced fighter who can stand his ground both in distance battles, through the use of his 
 remote controlled missile, as well as short ranged battles, due to the speed of his standard attacks.
 
  
  Fortunately, the developer put the same measure of refinement into every other character as well. 
 From returning veterans like Mario to newcomers like Sonic, every fighter feels balanced, both 
 in their fighting moves and how they control. Returning characters have also gotten a tune-up, 
 which gives them a new sense of life. On the down side, there are several characters on the roster 
 that felt like clones of each other. The similarities between Fox McCloud and Falco, for example, 
 are so great I had a hard time telling them apart. However, the roster is varied enough that it 
 isn't that big of a deal.
  The other big attraction present in Brawl is the sheer amount of unlockable content that you can 
 uncover and best of all, every item you unlock actually adds to the overall gameplay experience. 
 The majority of this content comes in the form of assist trophies, Pokeballs, weapons, and items.
 
  
  The assist trophies -- items that call support characters into battle -- add a nice element of strategy 
 and it also gives the sense that the roster of characters is far bigger than it really is. Even 
 though you don't have direct control of them, having Little Mac or a fleet of 8-bit motorcycles 
 from Excite Bike rush out to your aid is a neat twist that adds a lot to the battle. The nostalgia 
 factor for old school gamers will also be high as the assist trophies make many references that 
 they'll be sure to recognize.
  
  Of course, the most powerful item in Brawl comes in the shape of a Smash Ball. This uber-powerup 
 appears randomly and once collected, they allow you to initiate your character's Final Smash; depending 
 on who you're playing as, that'll usually result in a one hit knock-out. Collecting a Smash Ball 
 is not as easy as it sounds, however- to obtain one, players must hit the tiny ball several times 
 as it floats around the screen. When four Brawlers are all chasing after a Smash Ball, the chaos 
 and competition that erupts is both exhilarating and hilarious. 
  Gameplay wise, Brawl manages to avoid feeling repetitive and stale thanks to its multiple game 
 modes, all of which bring something unique to the playing field. Classic mode and multi-player 
 return and you can customize your battles as you want; you can tweak things like which items are 
 available to how fast your characters move. Adventure mode also makes a return, but is longer and 
 more dynamic than before- playing though the story mode almost feels like playing through an action/ 
 platform game. Of course, the big incentive to play through all of Brawl's modes lies in the unlockable 
 content but thankfully, the included game modes offer up unique experiences that are fun to play 
 through even on their own.
  
  Outside of the main game modes, there are an amazing amount of options and extra content that adds 
 more depth and player choice. And of course, there is the level editor which allows players to 
 create their own custom stages. At the beginning of the game only a few basic building blocks are 
 available but as you progress through the game, you unlock more pieces to play with. Though it's 
 a nice addition and a welcome diversion from fighting, the editor is just not robust enough to 
 spend too much time in. I had more fun pausing the game during Brawls and positioning an in-game 
 camera to take snapshots no one else will see.
  From a presentation standpoint, Brawl looks amazing. When I played past SSB games, I often found 
 my head spinning because of the sheer amount of action taking place on the screen. Brawl didn't 
 feel that way, at least in part, due to the fact that it runs in 480p. All of the action and animations 
 are smooth and it's easy to follow the mayhem.
  
  Controlling fighters on screen is easy and follows the same control set up of past SSB games. Players 
 can choose to use any controller that's compatible with the Wii, whether it's the Wii Remote, the 
 Classic Controller, or the Nunchuck. All of these work well, but ultimately don't offer the quickest 
 response time. Hardcore players will want to dust off their Gamecube controllers, not just because 
 it feels familiar, but because it works the best.
  
  From the fighting mechanics to roster of players Brawl is a well-rounded game that I just couldn't 
 put down. The only downside to Brawl is that it doesn't do anything to reinvent the series. It 
 takes elements of past SSB games and refines them, which is great, but players expecting an entirely 
 new experience won't find it here. Still, it is a well rounded game that doesn't disappoint and 
 it's a must buy for every Wii owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokedbeef
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  First the good things about this game:
  
  Gameplay: Crazy, amazing, and funny beat each other gameplay, every characters are very unique 
 in their own ways, new characters has been added from melee, many techniques and moves to use, 
 new game modes added, has multiplayer
  
  Sounds: A bit improved from melee
  
  Graphics: GReat and awesome graphics, improved a lot from melee
  
  System: Nothing to say except 
 there is a very small chance of a bit of lag.
  
  NOw the bad things aout this game:
  
  Gameplay: Lots of stuffs from melee was used, gameplay and control feels the same as melee
  
 
  Sounds: Many of the sounds were used from melee
  
  Graphics: Nothing
  
  System: Using the Wii controller could be a bit difficult
  
  Overall: Many of things in melee 
 was used again in brawl, i excepted more but i think they didn't add enough, but that doesnt make 
 it a bad game its still a awesome ass-kicking game! :) Just lot were similar to melee. So its worth 
 buying! and still a greeat game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GioNToji
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. is one of the finest game the Wii console have to offer. Its a must have for 
 those who want the 'fun' of the Wii rather alone or playing with friend or family best. Its nostalgic 
 in a way for those who ever played the characters' game that they represent, and for certain, its 
 kind of addictive to play. See them bashing around with each other, unlock more and more characters 
 and stage as the more you play, play online if you have to. You even may read the FAQ here and 
 learn what to expect and what to do to have a certain thing or character. I haven't played the 
 game too long yet I still enjoy the fun the game brought me while playing with my cousins and family 
 members. Even my mom and dad care to play it since they know of the characters long ago. Go on 
 try it yourself, that is, if you have a working Wii at home that is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vyse-the-Legend
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  This is the only game in my collection that I would used the word constant for time played. That 
 is because SSBB is quite unlike any game on Nintendo in that it will not go away. Brawl takes all 
 of the great things from Melee and adds more, including more characters, more items, and a story 
 mode. Honestly, I think the story mode is stupid, but I did not shell out 50 bucks to play the 
 single player. I bought this game to Brawl! The multiplayer for this game has no equal on Nintendo. 
 The second best option, Mario Kart, looks pathetic compared to Brawl. Also, you can fight up to 
 3 AI's if you are by yourself to strengthen your skills. Until another Smash Bros. is released 
 (probably not untill 2011 or so) , Brawl is here to stay. It will follow Melee right in it's footsteps 
 to glory and this time around the fight is even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doo1235
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  I give this game a ten out of ten because it is awesome. I played it over and over again. I play 
 it with my friends all the time. Sometimes it can be confusing in the story mode but still a great 
 game. A lot of characters to pick from, for example: King Dedede, Fox, Toon Link, Link, Wario, 
 Mr. Game and Watch, Luigi, R. O. B, Donkey Kong, Mario of course. I like playing as Pit and Meta 
 Knight, because of there long rang special attacks. I do not like Princes Peach because she sucks. 
 Do not use short cuts because it gets rid of all the fun of free for all, and if you are trying 
 to unlock new characters and maps. I loved it and my best friend could not believe how good the 
 graphics were for wii. That is only a sample of how fantastic SUPER SMASH BROS. BRAWL is. So have 
 fun and play play play!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hememi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 2:45 am PT
Review:  this is propably the best game ever made its fun alone but terrific with others this game has so 
 many things to do so you will never get bored especially with friends the graphics couldnt be better 
 gameplay rules many songs stages characters modes that offer variety. the only problems are bad 
 online and not that great stage builder otherwise its perfect if you own a wii you must get it. 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . .. . . . .. .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . ................... ....... . . . . . . .. . . . 
 .. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . .. . .. .. . . .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .. . . .. . . . . . .. . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . .. . . . . . . . . . .  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Olimar-GMSS
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  I like this game very much.
  Let's start the review!
  
  Graphics: Very great. Yet, the best nintendo done on wii.
  9/10
  
  Gameplay: Awesome, I play 
 it everyday!
  Addictive too.
  Meteor smash system is better,
  You can move and jump while using ray guns, super scope & fire flowers.
  But some items can be 
 cheap (Fan, timer, etc.)
  You swim now, which is better off than going through water completely.
  The gameplay is 9/10
 
  
  Sound: the music in this game is probably one of the best in the game.
  Most are originals remade, few completely new.
  As for sound effects, not annoying and pretty 
 good, 
  but could have more sounds effects 
  like it did in the last 2 super smash brothers games.
  Music is 9/10
  Sound is 7/10.
  
 
  Value: Worth 50$, I play it a long time long I did in melee.
  
  The Bad: Online lagging 
  and not able to use custom stages online, even with friends.
  Here's 
 my list of flaws in my opinion.
  1. Online: Come on people! It lags alot!
  
  2. Lacks extra activities: Target test and boss battles is not enough...
  
  3. Sound Effects: 
 Needs more (when you hit someone/thing)
  
  4. Cheap Characters: Pit, Lucas, Meta Knight, and Pikachu can be cheap...
  
  And there's a 
 little more...
  
  Overall: Superb game, I recommend this to all wii owners.
  Let Super Smash Bros. series continue! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Longcat2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 3:47 am PT
Review:  Brawl is an epic game, but its not quite what its predecessor Melee was for its time. Still, a 
 nice game. An excellent game. I've spent over 150 hours on this game already and I've only had 
 it for 2 months or so. Endless fun can be had with the multiplayer, which has always been the main 
 premise of the Smash series.
  
  Negatives: Too many items that guarantee you a K. O, laggy online play when vsing people across 
 the world, certain characters nerfed (they screwed up Ganondorf!!! GRRR that makes me angry!! My 
 second favourite character ruined and now he sucks in BRAWL!)
  
  With the negatives out of the way, the game has good graphics, good gameplay and a high fun and 
 replay factor. They addressed some key problems like clone characters. Overall this is a nice package. 
 Buy it if you have a wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariokart64fan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  the fighting and the platform as well as that little arcade game in this game is pretty much the 
 best expeirence in gaming yet . the multiplayer is just fun on or offline, youll spend hours days 
 years playing this game in single player your bound to have a blast as well , the adventure mode 
 alone adds just as much fun into the series as melee did , this time its even better longer actually 
 is a fighting game with platforming action blended in mortal kombat deception had the same type 
 of adventure but not of this calibur the sound track is probably more nastalic then anything but 
 it does have a good one. the only draw back is with wii mote your arms would get tired worth every 
 penny you spent on wii alone ,
  
  
  then there are demos you unlock them to try the for a few minutes that adds a little somthin in 
 to the mix . who knows you might end up liking the game demos and buy the full game via wii shop 
 channel 
  
  theres some lag but still, it is fun to just pick a wii mote nunchuck classic controller or gamecube 
 controller and play the heck out of this title,. mariokart should be next in line 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G-COMCOMCOM
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  The Good- Large Character Roster, Unique Final Smashes, great graphics, Mad long Adventure mode, and 
 amazing gameplay. (and a lot more)
  
  The Bad- You can't use your Mii, Characters are way too easy to unlock, replays can only be 3 minutes 
 long, not a lot of picture taking space, Still some Clone Characters (but they did make them a 
 little more unique) , Fox Falco and Wolf have the same final smash, Olimar sucks, character motion 
 is a little slower than the last game, and they got rid of a couple of characters from the last 
 game.
  
  I know that list looks bad, but the gameplay makes up for all the cons! This is a top-class game, 
 bro! The character list is a beast! Ganondorf is A LOT stronger, which makes up for his slowness. 
 And Luigi has a purple costume!!!! WWOOOOOOOOOOOOOHHHHHH, YEEEEAAAAA!!!!!!!
  
  GET THIS GAME!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: animenerd2000
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl, or just Brawl for short, is one of the greatest multiplayer fighters ever. 
 One reason it is such a good fighter is because of its wide range of playable characters. And an 
 improvement from the prequel, Super Smash Bros. Melee, the characters are a little more unique 
 now. In Melee, Capt. Falcon and Gannondorf were essentially the same character but Gannondorf was 
 just a bit slower. They had all of the same moves and motions. But in Brawl, they couldn't be more 
 different. Capt. Falcon is all speed and quick hits while Gannondorf is slow but powerful and is 
 mainly a "finishing" character.
  Also, the addition of an actual storyline, the Subspace Emissary, you are trying to save the world 
 from a being called Tabuu who is trying to gain complete cotrol over the world. There are still 
 classic and all-star modes in Brawl but they are mainly for trophy purposes. 
  The new way to get trophies is pretty entertaining and can keep you occupied for quite a while. 
 It is much more fun than the lottery machine in Melee.
  The newest, and my favorite, mode is the Boss Battle mode where you pick a difficulty, and a character 
 and battle ten bosses from the Subspace storyline. Personally the intense mode difficulty isn't 
 that tough.
  Now there is also the addition of various things such as replays, photo galleries and a custom 
 stage builder. The stage builder is nothing special though. The only downside to brawl is the two 
 minute loading screen at the very beginning of the game, but if you can get past that it is a truly 
 remarkable game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightchaosX
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  ssbb was set to be released in December but was delayed to make the game better. It was worth the 
 wait because ssbb has everything you can ask for in a action game. The multiplayer is great with 
 a wide variety of characters and stages to chose from. To get all of the characters you must complete 
 several tasks or you can play through the long story mode: the subspace emissary. The subspace emissary 
 is a unique way Nintendo introduced all of the characters into one story line. By the time you finish 
 the subspace emissary you will practically have all the characters. The graphics in ssbb are extremely 
 good considering it is a Wii game. Its no Blue-ray or HD but it is on the same standing ground. There 
 are also many other features that the previous games did not include. First the challenges and the 
 stage builder. The challenges is yet another unique way to distribute trophies by clearing certain 
 conditions in the game. The stage builder is the first in any action games. With the stage builder, you 
 can create stages and play on them during multiplayer. One fault which is why gamespot gave it a 
 9.5 is that the stages that are built can not be used during online play. Even without the Stage 
 builder stages you can still have a great time playing online with your friends. All in all ssbb 
 is a great game and probably the best Wii game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsboyX360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 4:13 am PT
Review:  When I started playing Super Smash Brothers Brawl I thought it was some sort of gay game for 3 
 year olds. I was wroing. It's fun. I love using Samus, Kirby and Link.
  
  The maps are great but it's better to create your own maps. I love playing as Wario and fighting 
 against little people, It's fun when he starts eating them.
  
  One of my favourite maps is Where u're in a racing track. Its freaky how the cars just bump u. 
 Super Smash Brothers Brawl has a lot of subliminal Messaging. There was one where one of the characters 
 special Move when he/she did it, It looked like a devil star.
  
  Also, when u use the explosive box against them, if u pause they look like Satan. And in this mode, 
 these puppet demons are hanging with blood shot eyes, it's freaky. And also when u hear this theme, 
 it's a satanic metal song. Lol, maybe I'm just exaggerating or hallucinating.
  But SSBB is probably the best Wii game and is alot better with multiplayer, it gets boring playing 
 SSBB alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SethiXzon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  I found this a great game from the start. I wouldn't give this game a 10, because there's no perfect 
 game to me, but 9.5 is a definite answer. The music was very original, and the battle system was 
 as well. The stages could be hard at times, but the easy controls made up for that. I did notice 
 that some bosses would be more entertaining to fight if they had a little more HP when you fought 
 them, unless your playing a harder mode. But that's a small bad thing about this game. Everything 
 else was great. Sure, the graphics aren't the best you've ever seen, but they are still great. 
 The physics were very realistic too. I would recommend this game to most gamers, but if you want 
 to see violence, Nintendo probably isn't good for you. I would easily recommend this game to most 
 gamers, as it is one of the best Wii games around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Batsu12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Look like in smash bros melee but have more polygon count still look better than in melee, i 
 just wish the camera when you fight would be close to the characters like it was in melee, also 
 the character models look slightly smaller when i compare them to ssbm. Stage design is better than 
 the previous smash bros games.
  
  Controls: They are exactly like in melee but i hated using the wiimote sideways, using nunchuck 
 and wiimote are ok but it's better when use a classic controller or even better with gamecube controller.
 
  
  Sound: I really like the sounds in this game i love the sounds when meta knight hits people or anyone 
 that uses swords. Sounds are great in this game
  
  Music: I like the music in this game you could also switch music for stages main menu and put a 
 different one. I like them because some soundtracks sound nostalgic to me.
  
  Gameplay: At first i could not stop playing this game it was addicting it played so well and i even 
 thought it was better than any previous smash bros game, Later i went back playing melee and found 
 that game that played a bit faster than brawl did. The modes are same as in melee but has wi fi 
 (which kinda sucked) i don't really care for wi fi. I find that smash bros games are alot of fun 
 when i first play them but then they become a little boring after. The final smashes were really 
 cool and you feel like you are pwning. The game i thought was a bit overrated but i guess everyone 
 has different opinions. I give it a 8.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manocanada
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  This game has it all. If you are a super smash bros fan and don't have this game (then you are 
 prob not a fan) you better pick it up! It has very good graphics for the Nintendo Wii. Brawl also 
 has tons of characters, lvls, great story line, achievements, and its a great multilayer game. 
 You can use either the wii remote with nunchuck, wii remote by itself, classic controller, or the 
 game cube controller. The story line has tons of short movies of your favorite Nintendo characters. 
 Once you beat the story line there are many other things to do. Like unlocking lvls and trophies 
 and playing mini games like smash the targets and homerun. The bad thing about this game is the 
 online game play. It takes forever just to find people to fight against, and when you do its very 
 laggy. Other than that its a must have for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightning_kf
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 12, 2008 8:51 pm PT
Review:  The first Smash Brothers I played was the original on the N64. One that I cherish to this very 
 day, 9 years after its release.
  
  The second one which I never got a chance to play at all, took all of the aspects of the first 
 one and made it into a classic for the defunct GameCube.
  
  Now with the Wii comes the third game of the series: Brawl.
  
  One of the things I love about 
 Brawl is the amount of freedom it gives the user when it comes to making the matches and what not. 
 So many stages from classic Nintendo franchises to brawl forever. The music is TOP NOTCH, I love 
 the music in this game and I love that they brought back some Melee tracks as well. Character wise, 
 it is easily the most stuffed roster out of all 3 (though some might be disappointed in some downgrades 
 to certain favorites of yours, mine being Mario) . Multi-control choices from the Wiimote alone, 
 Wiimote/Nunchuck combination, Classic or GameCube controller (highly recommend the GameCube controller) . 
 Online brawling, the ability to build stages, play an old-fashioned shoot-em-up with coins to obtain 
 new coins and stickers, lengthy storymode, etc...........
  
  While those are my favorite things about Brawl, I still say GameSpot and the rest of users here 
 are going a bit overboard with their grades for this game.
  
  For starters, too many clone characters. Fox, Falco and Wolf each share the same special 'B' attacks 
 yet Wolf's 'A' attack are WAY different. Honestly, if Nintendo wanted to bring Wolf into the game 
 then Falco should have immediately been cut, but I guess fanboys would've complained if that happened, 
 so oh well. They're not the only ones either:
  
  - Ness and Lucas
  - Captain Falcon and Ganondorf
  - Link and Toon Link
  
  Secondly, besides clone characters, 
 the introduction of Solid Snake from the Metal Gear Solid franchise and Sonic The Hedgehog. I may 
 never understand why they added them to Brawl in the first place. It should always be exclusive 
 to Nintendo characters. This move might open the door for more "outsiders" getting in, ruining 
 that aspect of the Smash Brothers series for me. Gotta please the fanboys again I guess.
  
  My other complaint is how unbalanced and cheap the game feels at times. A lot of the characters 
 only require that you rapidly tap a button to inflict damage to an opponent, then finish off with 
 a more powerful blow. Not much skill required there. And it also doesn't help when almost everything 
 in this game can make your damage meter go up in a hurry (especially the main story mode) .
  
  A new addition to the Smash Brothers series is the "Smash Ball." Grab it and you can perform 
 a devastating attack clearing the stage of anyone who gets in your way called the "Final Smash." 
 As cool as they look, you can't help but notice how overpowered the gameplay is once you grab one 
 and most importantly, the utter laziness of the game programmers for not giving characters SEPARATE 
 Final Smashes to differentiate them from the others (I. E: The Starfox characters each have the 
 same Final Smash with minor differences in lengths of time they last, along with Ness and Lucas, 
 Link and Toon Link, Zelda and Sheik) .
  
  Story Mode is well done, but the enemies in this game are VERY overpowered, as well as the final 
 boss of the game who is the epitome of overpowered and extreme cheapness. Master Hand wasn't that 
 cheap. Also, you'll need to go through this in order to obtain all of the characters (which can 
 be accomplished within a week or several days if played non-stop) . Three characters sadly, were 
 never added to the main story, especially Wolf. Who wouldn't love to see Wolf and Fox interact 
 as allies again?
  
  Never played Brawl online but from what I've heard, it lags like hell and the online connection 
 is terrible. No thanks.
  
  Now don't get me wrong, Brawl is still a good game. Just that fans rate it a bit too high and it's 
 not as superb as many make it out to be. By the end of the day, Super Smash Bros Melee would be 
 remembered more than Super Smash Bros Brawl (and considered to be more fun as well) while the original 
 Super Smash Bros will forever be my favorite and an instant classic. It's just Nintendo didn't 
 do enough to warrant this game as a 9.5. 7.5 at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jkeen95
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  This was the best game of the year of 2008. The new characters put the edge that the game needs. 
 It's got Zero Suit Samus, Ike, Snake, Sonic, Lucas, and many others. It lacks in missions having 
 less than melee, but it makes up because it has classic mode, all star, 35 characters (old and 
 new) , adventure mode, 41 missions, you can build your own stages, and plenty more bosses and difficulty 
 levels. This completely masacers Melee with more stages and special attacks. All the bugs have 
 been taken out and the game is better than ever. Now in this you can take pictures and make replays 
 of all your favorite fights. You can get trophies, songs, and short play time of old games for 
 a couple characters. You will need to buy a couple new controllers to play thm all. The only downfall 
 is that some characters have either similar or the same specials. This game can bring fun and excitment 
 to people of all ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dinosonicdude
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  this game includes new characters for players who love old/new Nintendo characters, Solid Snake, 
 and Sonic The Hedgehog. it also includes old modes from Super Smash Bros. Melee, like 15 minute 
 brawl, endless brawl, and cruel brawl, and new modes like The Subspace Emmissary (or what everyone 
 calls it 'story mode') , where you can save the world with old and new character in solo or cooperative 
 gameplay, and WiFi Mode where you can play with 1-3 players around the world in brawl, team brawl, 
 and home-run contest or home-run co-op. not to mentioned to spectate, or bet, your coins to guess 
 which player from around the world will win a match to win twice the coins you bet or to waste 
 you coins to admit defeat, which is pretty cool. the gameplay are amazing with new features which 
 include new items, like assist trophies that include one of my fav charcters, shadow the hedgehog, 
 and final smashes which includes my favs final smashes like aura storm from lucario, the aura pokemon, 
 and super sonic from sonic, and best of all you can hear music from old/new games and give you 
 info on them. i love the music in SSBB, especially Sonic's music. therefore SSBB is the best Wii 
 game in Wii history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D3dr0_0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  This game so far is one the best game for the Wii. This game was made for beginners and pro players 
 the controls are easy to get used to which ever way you choose to play. It comes with a handful 
 of modes both single and multiplayer. This game even lets you play on your own stage that you create. 
 Its story mode took me about 20 hours to beat in normal and that is one of the ways to unlock characters, 
 they still have target practice, multi-man brawl and home run contest along with boss battles. 
 In total there are 35 characters each have there own abilities and disabilities. Its online play 
 is great it dosnt lag. There are also alot of extra collectables in this game such as trophies 
 thats optional. This game is addicting just like the last two with more to do. They tried something 
 new called a smash icon that lets you do your character's ultimate attack, A devastating finisher 
 for each character.
  This game was made for multiplayer action so Nintendo did a great job on this addition of the Smash 
 Bros. series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KronosIII
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong I love this game, got it when it cam out. However this game could be much more 
 if Nintendo had a better online system. Not having ranks online, not being able to know who you 
 are playing, and the lag sometimes. This is a great game to play with friends over, however this 
 game should not only be played with friends over. With things like Xbox live out this game is cut 
 short and is primitive. Still some problems in terms of character balance in how Meta knight and 
 snake can kill mostly everyone. And some issues playing your favorites, mine being bowser which 
 got a good upgrade from Melee. Another issue is the ending of the game. The ending took no creativity 
 at all, its jsut all the levels you played all over again. They could of done allot more with that 
 then what they put. Hands down the best fighter on the wii, not that there is many fighters on 
 the wii. Or non mini game games on the wii. Its a buy if you have friends always coming over. And 
 I think I remember melee having more impact then this game. Melee just felt better in general. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TylerJohn
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2008 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Its a lot of fun, but i feel like they toned down some of the better characters from melee and 
 overpowered some of the weaker characters (pikachu) . also, some of the little details they added, 
 such as slipping and falling, are just plain stupid! i cant even count how many times ive had an 
 oppenent set up for a finishing move, but when i go to run over i slip and fall, giving my opponent 
 time to land and set up. good ideas, but just not fun for a game thats supposed to be fast-paced. 
 and i don know about anyone else, but i feel like they greatly slowed the tempo of the game down 
 from melee. plus my all time favorite character, samus, absolutely blows in this game, a huge letdown 
 in my opinion. but i still have a great time playing this game, im just struggling to find a character 
 i like now, its hard to change after you played with the same character for the past 6 years... 
 maybe when i do find someone i like, ill appreciate this game like i do melee! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boof222
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl is one of the best games i've ever played. Great graphics and lots of characters 
 to choose from. the gameplay is kinda the same as the other games but still it's very fun. It's 
 cool how you can do classic mode and new adventure mode with master hand. The characters have some 
 really great moves and there are alot more items than in the other Super Smash Bros series. There 
 are so many things to do in the game and so many things to unlock A great game to play. I reccomend 
 this to all ages. I give it top marks ten out of ten and probably the best WII game so far
  :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nitroious
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  All those fans out there of our favorite characters will enjoy this spectacular game. I enjoyed 
 it even my brother of 5 years old. You won't get bored of it I a sure you that. If you just bought 
 this game and want to get all the characters as fast as possible then get your cheats at, Super 
 Smash Bros. Brawl (Cheats) and you will get everyone pretty easy if you are good inough. Other 
 wise I rate this game 9.0 you might like it even more but thats my thought of the game. Hope You 
 Keep Fighting. WO HO YEA and if you dont have a Gamespot account I say that you get an account 
 because they send you cool updates about games that are coming out soon or reviews and more so 
 I say sign up now and I a sure you you'll thank me after. If you have any questions just ask me 
 or something and if you like you might also like Mario Kart Wii I liked it too and if you like 
 racing you'l love Mario Kart check it out. PEACE OUT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wsgrizzlies35
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is so much fun it would take me at least an hour to describe all the fun things about 
 this game. Well first off, the online is great. I love the fact that you can send pics and videos. 
 I also like to spectate games and bet on who you thinks goi ng to win. Another thing i like about 
 this game is all the action in this game. I love the new final smash feature. My favorite charcters 
 final smash is snakes. I also think that story is great. One of my favorite game modes in this game 
 is the home run derby I love to hit that pillow. He is such a retard If you want to find out even 
 more fun things about this game BUY IT!!! If you have any questions about my review or abot the 
 game PLEASE send mre a message. I will be looking forward to getting message from super smash bros. 
 gamers. May the smash bros be with you.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kjhorton25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 4:20 pm PT
Review:  All right all right, we all know that Super smash bros. brawl is one of the best wii games ever! 
 It has everything I wished for. the music well... lets just say it is super! you can either play 
 in full screen or wide screen. I love it's options it says that you can make how often different 
 songs play all the time. Some stages have more song then others but they are all good places to 
 fight on & just destroy each other. if you want to be good you have to have fast fingers. some stages 
 are good some places aren't as fun. I really like the final boss taboo. He is very hard to beat but 
 once you have done it you will be proud of yourself. but be careful he has a 1-hit ko. I think you 
 should face him by yourself because if you & your friend both die its like you dieing twice. You 
 should get this game because you play it with your friends & have a blast! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent-83422
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best in the series for Super Smash Bros. This game has a bigger roster to choose 
 from and lots of levels to play on. You can also play online with this game, but the online play 
 wasn't what I expected. Other than that, this game is very fun. What really surprised me about 
 this game is how many characters you can choose from. There's one character I would of never expected 
 to be on the Super Smash Bros. series. That character is Solid Snake from Metal Gear Solid 3. Another 
 cool character (which I personally like to use) is Sonic the Hedgehog. Other than just those two 
 characters there's loads of new charaters like Meta Knight, Ice Climbers, etc. The minigames could 
 of been better but they're still fun. Overall this game is loads of fun and better if played with 
 friends or in tournaments (basically anything but yourself) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thunderhorse55
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  This game has good graphics, exellent control scheme, and just the right level of competitiveness 
 to get the whole family trying to kill in your sleep. The only complaint that I have is that during 
 online play, it sometimes lags badly, and it sometimes takes a long time to find someone to play 
 with. Other than that, online play rocks, and even single-player is pretty awesome with, like, 
 10 million different events and modes. If you were a fan of the first super smash bros., than this 
 is the jump you have been waiting for. Even if you have no idea what this game is, I would highly 
 recommend it to anyone with a wii and people who will play with you. It is good on new players 
 too. My older brother has never played before, and he gets scores as high as me and my other bro! 
 Seriously, this game rocks so hard you will want to play it all day and all night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drumboy96
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  when i first bought brawl i had very high expectations because of hype and reviews but let me tell 
 ya this game sure did deliever. let me start of with charachters, you get  
 etc. but you also get many newcomers like king dedede, meta knight, snake, sonic, pokemon trainer, diddy 
 kong and a few others, so overall there are 35 charachters so the roster does not dissapoint. now 
 let's talk about modes you get the subspace emmisary a. k. a the story mode, brawl the local mlutiplayer 
 mode, classic mode which is a arcade type mode, online wich i will get to in a moment, and many 
 options like coin launcher, photos, stage builder, music, and other mini games like homerun contest, 
 milti-man brawl, and target smash and also a few other secret modes. next is online which in my 
 opinion is mediocre you can barley get online and if you do it is a lag fest except on ocasions, 
 you cannot customize the matches whatsoever all you can dois do team battle and spectaor mode which 
 lets you bet on other players. so overall brawl is a phenomenal game but very slight faults hold 
 it back for being perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hahnasty
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  Brawl is another fantastic step in the Super Smash series. There are some new features and game 
 modes in this game, but the classic game modes that are most well loved still remain and are better 
 than ever.
  The adventure mode in Brawl is an extremely fun challenge. You go through levels similar to an 
 old Mario game, battling generic opponents along the way. However, every so often on your voyage 
 you stop and have a classic Smash battle against a single computer opponent. These opponents are 
 challenging, but fairly easy to defeat as you learn the game. The main adventure mode for Brawl 
 is much more easily completed with a friend. The final boss battle is extremely difficult single 
 player, however with two people, you can deal twice the damage in the same amount of time.
  The classic melee mode for multiplayer is still a hit. With many new levels there are new challenges 
 that everyone can enjoy while they play. In addition to the many levels there are a lot of characters 
 to choose from. Each player obviously has there strengths and weaknesses. Some players can transform 
 from one to another, like Zelda, while others have an additional damage move. Either way, it won't 
 be long before you find a character you love to use and learn to master.
  Unlocking characters in Brawl is very fun as well. You can either complete the adventure mode, 
 unlocking characters throughout the mission, or play game modes that will eventually unlock characters. 
 Some characters become unlocked after you play 10 multiplayer games for example. Although the adventure 
 mode is a much faster way to unlock everyone, the multiplayer way provides a lot of practice on 
 the new levels. Either way, you will never get bored with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vakama_lord52
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  When I played Super Smash Bros. on the N64, I didn't know what to expect for the franchise at first. 
 However, when I first got my hands on Super Smash Bros. Melee on the Gamecube, I was surprised 
 about the improvements; more characters than the last one, the more detailed the characters and 
 stages looked in comparison with the first SSB game, and then I thought to myself; "If there were 
 to be ANOTHER Super Smash Bros. game, I would be blown away." It seemed that simple to me at the 
 time, but then my tastes for games changed from Nintendo with; Super Mario Bros., Legend of Zelda, 
 Metroid etc., to Sony and the Playstation 2 with stuff like Devil May Cry 1+3, Ratchet and Clank, 
 Metal Gear Solid 2+3. However what at first got me back on the Gamecube was when Metal Gear Solid: 
 Twin Snakes came out, seeing that I never got the first MGS on the PS1. Then in 2007, I heard about 
 a NEW Super Smash Bros. on the Wii coming around, I nearly s#$& myself in aw and excitement, I 
 was like, "OH MY GOD! OH MY GOD! OH MY GOD! This is FREAKIN' AWESOME!!!!!!!!!" However, when I 
 kept on hearing delays about it, I was then like, "Come ON!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!" but, I managed to 
 restrain myself from pure rage fro a WHILE. Then, when it finally came out, I PLAYED IT A LOT!!!!!!! 
 So-much-so, that I played it even if my homework wasn't done; after school, even. I thought I'd 
 pop it back in after getting games like; Metroid Prime 3: Corruption, Super Mario Galaxy, Mario 
 Kart Wii, and Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess for my Wii. Overall, my rating is 9.7 out of 10. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoNin360
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  This game was highly anticipated and had high expectations. I'm glad to say that this game has 
 satisfied almost every single fan of it's previous games.
  
  I'll just say there are loads of extra features as well as some mediocre online play. There is 
 a great story to play and plently to do. Unlocking all the characters doesn't take very long, but 
 that doesn't cut the time of playing this game.
  
  You can't just play SSBB all by yourself all the time though, you will surely get lonely and bored 
 soon. The multiplayer would land a 10\10 if I were to chop this game up into catagories. This game 
 is pretty hard for me on higher difficulties, but the controls are OK. Mostly everyone including 
 myself using the GC controler so it's a lot like playing Super Smash Brothers Melee.
  
  Of course the graphics and things to do is widely expanded. 
  
  So overall this game isn't 
 a disapointment, and this would be a great game to get for the Holiday season if for some reason 
 you don't have it already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshishadow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  the things dont like me: here missing dr. mario, pichu, roy and metwo, 20 stages more, and more 
 characters y pokemons from the poke balls. more stages from melee. stages like 75 M?? is a waste 
 of memory in the game, and the final smash of mario and lucario are too weaks, and is too easy 
 unlock the characters so i prefer melee 
  
  the good things are: THE BEST OF THE BEST!!! in music, good graphics, amazing cinematics scenes 
 and all characters are good in gameplay and for this game and the for ways to play!! this make 
 it more fun. and the gameplay in al moments is perfect dont have much glitches, and the new poke 
 balls all are good and the asist trophy too. and the trophy and stickers are good in numbres. and 
 the challenges are hard to complete and you can take photos in any moment and save the fights of 
 3 minutes in vs mode 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karrotjuce
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  First, super smash bros, then super smash bros melee, now, its time to BRAWL! This is the greatest 
 game in the series. 35 characters, 41 or something stages, 40-something items, more than 10 weird 
 (big small, flaming, metal, etc) options. The game has tremedous reply value, and i am notorious 
 for getting bored of games quickly, but i have had this game for five months and played it dedicatedly 
 all of the time. Theres also the subspace emmissary which is a whole game in itself, but I hate 
 the moving levels. Packed with tons of features, do not miss this game.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  
  Graphics: 9.5
  
  Sound: 10
  
  Replay: 10
  
  Controls: 9
  
  Total: 10
  
 
  
  
  AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME 
 AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME 
 AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME 
 AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME 
 AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME 
 AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME 
 AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME 
 AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME 
 AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME 
 AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME 
 AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: runeduck3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  So I bought brawl. Why? Yeah it has some of my favourite characters (samus and snake) but why isn't 
 this number 1? Because it lacks a bit of depth you cannot agree with me but the story mode only 
 takes 8-15 hours (not solid) . the game is played in a world with all Nintendo universes together 
 with to third party characters (snake and sonic) . the online mode isn't just a random people that 
 you will probably never see again, you can also register friend codes, bet on any match that you 
 watch (with "coins" for the coin lancer) and even do a home run contest or a multi-man brawl with 
 another person over the internet if you live with no gamers and don't have an internet connection 
 I would recommend not to get it. Sure it has 35 characters and 41 stages but if you buy it you 
 will think it misses something, just you don't know what 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apoklitty
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sora4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash bros is back and better than ever! You have a bigger roster than ever with some amazing 
 new additions. Some newbs to the game are Sonic, Snake, Ike, Lucario and a lot more. So in this 
 game you are able to choose an actually story mode called "Subspace Emissary" where all the characters 
 end up teaming up to take down the villain. This was an awesome addition to the game because it 
 adds even more playability than the other games. The graphics are very impresive for a wii game. 
 I found playing the game with the wii remote was a little wierd but you can also use the classic 
 controller or the gamecube controller which makes it a lot better. The combat is as good as ever 
 with an addition of the "Final Smash". The final smash is an orb that can pop out of boxes or just 
 out of nowhere. It gives each character their own unique powerful move that is extremely powerful. 
 Another thing cool about it is that you can play online against other people using wi-fi. Overall 
 this is one of the best fighting games I've ever played. A must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UVERproject
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Best game for the Wii right now period. It's perfect for people who don't have friends and just 
 play the single player or with computers, but it especially shines in the co-op and multiplayer 
 aspect of the game. The Subspace Emissary give the option of having you and friend go through the 
 clever story Nintendo has come up with, without using any words. Theres tons of things to collect 
 like all those trophys. Cool unlockable characters except for Sonic, he's not cool. the game has 
 people from video games you would probably never play, so it's great marketing on Nintendo's part. 
 Before Brawl's release I tried a bunch of games from Fire Emblem to Pikmin to Kid Icarus. It can 
 also be a competitive game. It brought me and a bunch of friends together just to play and laugh 
 at the game. If you don't have it go get it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonnymario
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Who doesn't like the idea?: beating the crap out of your opponents by battling them out on a stage 
 and showing who's the boss around here. BRAWL has it all, with so many content in the game, you 
 will never get bored! I remember that before the game came out, everybody went crazy thinking about 
 who would be in the game (characters) and it turns out, the final roster of characters wasn't disappointing. 
 It really doesn't matter who you are because you will get a character that suits your style of 
 fighting guaranteed. What I enjoyed about this game were brawling (duh) , the UN lockable masterpieces 
 (which has a variety of games that changed video game history) , home run contests, the coin launcher, 
 and the stickers and trophies. You sometimes just pause the game while you are brawling, just to 
 stare at the amazing detailed characters. I also love some of the stages that you play in like 
 Delfino Plaza, Final Destination, and The Temple; some of them give you that old schooled feeling 
 such as the Donkey Kong Stage and the Mario Bros. stage. Like I said again, if you own a Wii system, 
 then definitely going to the store right now and buying it, its well worth the price! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocklee_112713
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is a great sequel to Melee. It has improved graphics, more stages, and 
 now each character has a powerful attack they can use, called a Final Smash. 
  
  The gameplay is basically the same, but now you have different items to affect gameplay and Final 
 Smashes, which can be used by breaking a Smash Ball and using the Special Attack button (Often 
 B) . The controls are also the same, easy to learn controls, though there are different controllers 
 with the conversion to Wii. 
  
  The music is good, though most of it is just music from Nintendo (as well as Metal Gear Solid and 
 Sonic) games, in the forms of remixes as well as some music taken completely from its game. 
  
  The graphics are a lot cleaner, and the Final Smashes look wonderful. 
  
  Multiplayer is 
 always fun, and if you have friends, this game won't get old. Even without friends, if you have 
 Wi-Fi, you can spend your time playing against people around the world, testing your skill against 
 some of the best (or the worst) . 
  
  There are 22 characters you start with: Mario, Peach, Bowser, Donkey Kong, Diddy Kong, Link, Zelda 
 (who can transform into Sheik) , Samus (Who now has the ability to become Zero-Suit Samus) , Yoshi, 
 Kirby, Fox, Pikachu, Pokemon Trainer (With Squirtle, Charizard, and Ivysaur) , Kirby, Meta Knight, 
 King Dedede, Ice Climbers, Lucas, Ike, Pit, Wario, and Olimar. 
  
  One notable feature is the Subspace Emissary, a new story mode made for the game. It starts with 
 Mario and Kirby fighting in a Stadium, but a mysterious force plans to take over the world (kinda) . 
 It's surprising how well they show the story without the people talking. 
  
  The Wire Frames of Melee have also been replaced by Alloys. There is also a game to acquire trophies 
 rather than to just insert coins and hope for the best. 
  
  There are a lot more good things about this game, but I can't list them all here. Well the reason 
 I didn't give it a 10 is because the Subspace Emissary gets repetitive quickly and some characters 
 are too overpowered. Still, Brawl is a great game and I really recommend you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doey77
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Brothers Brawl is still my favorite Wii game, and will probably be like that for a 
 LONG time. It is a great party game once people learn the controls, and party games are the Wii's 
 best function.
  
  I would say it is better with friends, or you can play over Nintendo WFC if you have no one to 
 play with at the time and have internet. Now here I'll break it down.
  
  The Good: Great Multiplayer, Great Adventure mode, Wi-Fi, Easy to Learn
  
  The Bad: Lag on 
 Wi-Fi, and a couple Wi-Fi improvements could've been made.
  
  Now go play the game and find out there's nothing else wrong with it.
  
  I suggest you buy 
 it if you like these type of fighters, or rent if you're not sure.
  
  The Overall: This game is the best game on Wii, and still is, maybe new releases will pass it, 
 (like how AC did) but only because of it being new, and because it introduced Wii Speak. You won't 
 regret getting this game, unless you throw it out a window. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariogallaxe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  First, and most importantly, Super Smash Bros. Brawl is without a doubt the best smash bros. to 
 date. The online play is one of it's major advantages, as well the choice of characters. While 
 entertaining for a long time, after the initial two weeks with no sleep, I ran out of things to 
 do. The smaller events and challenges are fun, but lack any real difficulty. This makes them fun, 
 but go by too quickly. The online option is the only real thing that keeps me coming back every 
 once in a while, thats why I wouldn't rate it a 10. If you have at least a few friends with Brawl, 
 than it is pretty easy to pick up a game online when you are bored. The actual story itself is relatively 
 shallow though, so it doesn't take that long to finish. Once you do finish, you are left wanting 
 more (not necessarily a bad thing ;) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DepressionMoon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. first appeared on the N64 way back in the day. Back then it was a great game 
 still is, but compared to this entry boring crap. Super Smash Bros. Brawl as you probably already 
 know is a fighting game where Nintendo's big and smallest characters battle out with each other 
 with over the top attacks.
  Battles are fought with basics combo and chargeable attacks with the A button. Pressing A repeatedly 
 is for a combo While pressing over an A allows for a side smash attack which is chareable. There 
 is also an up smash and a down smash which have the same principle except down smashs hits opponents 
 on both sides of you so it comes in handy if you're being jumped. There is also three special attacks 
 which are carried out with the B button that are usually a bit stronger than regular attacks, but 
 with additonal effects like long-range, teleportation, counter move. There's also a shield that 
 allows you to block a number of attacks, and sidesteps and rolls for evasion. items also change 
 conditions of the battle and allow for special effects to a character I haven't played since the 
 N64 version so the new content in this game blows me away I just can't get over how much stuff 
 is in this game! 
  
  First off let's discuss the new items. The new items in this entry are the Dragoon pieces, assist 
 trophies, rabbit ears, and smash ball. There are three dragoon pieces if you collect all three 
 you go into a first person mode and try to knock out any enemies with a single shot. You can knock 
 pieces out of enemies. Assist trophies are like Poke'balls except that they don't summon Poke'mon. 
 The smash ball is the most exciting item. Players are encouraged to stop fighting briefly to break 
 open this floating item to be rewarded with a special attack that is usually pretty powerful. The 
 game also has a cool cinematic adventure mode that makes you secretly wish that there was a movie 
 based on this game. Another thing that makes this game addictive besides from it's fun battle gameplay 
 is the number of challenges it provides you. You can earn trophies when you accomplish certain 
 tasks and I think there's about a hundred of them so you'll be playing this for a while. There 
 is so much stuff in the game that I don't have enough time to talk about them all, even the little 
 things, but I have to put some negativity in here.
  I think it's a shame that the amount of stuff you have to work with with the level editor is terrible. 
 I wanted to build stages on par with what the developers had made. Also you can't bring them for 
 online fights either and some characters seem like clones of others. All in all Smash bros. is 
 a fantastic game and you should most definetly pick it up.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shyguy1234
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Super smash bros brawl can easily be described as the greatest fighting game on wii!
  Graphics:10/10. The graphics on brawl puts melee and the original to shame in graphics!
  Gameplay:10/10. The 
 game plays extremely well which ever way you play! (There are four ways to play; Gamecube controller, 
 wii remote sideways, wii remote with nunchuck, and the classic controller.)
  Music:10/10. With a variety of composisions from many nintendo, (and non-nintendo) games.
  Replay 
 value:10/10. Everything from classic mode to adventure mode is replayable no matter HOW much time 
 you haave put in to the game.
  (Actual) Difficulty:?/10. It all depends on what difficulty level you set it on. ( They are; very easy, easy, hard, very 
 hard, and intense.)
  Boss/enemy fights: The bosses in adventure mode are incredible! Of course, beating the crap out 
 of computers or your friends is extremely fun, as well.
  Storyline:10/10. Instead of the short, simple adventure from melee, it is a fully extended mode where 
 all the heroes join together to fend off an evil foe. The lack of dialouge is no problem, as the 
 story is explained with hilarious cutscenes.
  That sums up the great multiplayer and single player game that is super smash bros brawl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: done006
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Okay thanks for reading by the way, now This is super smash bros brawls third installment and its 
 better then ever! The graphics are incredible, the story mode and additional 2 player co-op option 
 are a fantastic touch. Smash ball super moves are a great add, and more characters then ever. Pretty 
 much there nuthin wrong on top of the game, But lets go over the things that most hardcore ssb 
 players will find disappointing. 
  
  OKay in this version of brawl almost everyone has received a extreme nerf from the previous titles, 
 noticeable characters who were nerfed include peach, jigglypuff, fox, falco, peach being the most 
 nerfed. her jumping ablities have been nerfed as well as her smash attacks in fact she has a very 
 difficult time k-oing hardcore players because moves that k-o like the mid- air crown ( f-ward air) 
 and up-smash have short range and take to long to perform and the opponent has to be position a 
 certain way. Also short hopping is alot harder to do for characters that relay on it like falco. Alot 
 of the characters grabs have been nerfed like foxs, and falco down after grabbing not allowing 
 u to chain and extra down smash any longer, and jigglypuffs up throw use to throw the opponent 
 all the way in the air but it now does a short distance above her head. IN fact its tough for many 
 characters to get a k-o because there either to light, adding to them being weak, or to strong 
 making thme very slow on one-one matches. also the online is extremely laggy, ssbb should get video-game 
 with the most lagg ever seen award. 
  
  
  BALANCE is pretty much where i feel smash bros feel short on, characters that feel over powered 
 are, olimar, snake, wolf, and zelda ill explain in full starting with zelda. With most characters 
 infact all but zelda there are animation lag before and after a smash attack, but not for the magic 
 using heroin, her attack are extrememly powerful and they only have to lightly tip the hair on 
 your face for u to receive and insane amout of damage and also knock-back in particular her up 
 smash making air fighters like jigglypuff flaco and pit useless against her, zelda isnt even that 
 light, and she moves across the board alot faster as well, her dins fire has been buffed as well. 
 So pretty much u can do a whole bunch of dogding and smash attack spamming and can easly destory 
 every character in the game is that fair? that Zelda received a significant buff while others received 
 a nerf? No its not it creates unbalance. Her up smash kill all even heavy characters at as little 
 as 94% dmg, each time, even if the tip of her non-lagging spamming attacks touchs the tip of u 
 your dead, lets move on. Wolf is also another overly powered character thats not balanced he has 
 no i mean no weakness or flaws while every other character in the game does, wolfs blaster is inpossible 
 to deal with on a small stage, is very easy spammed if the wolf players just shoots one on the 
 ground then jumps and shoots one at the air, making no projectile wields, like jigglypiff metaknight 
 marth donkey kong just want to commit sucide. also wolf is a heavy character, hes very hard to 
 kill by a light character, but can kill u easyly at low percentages because his attacks are so 
 quick, but thankfully have lagg on them a bit. His final smash is extrmemly unbalanced there no 
 weakeness to it unlike every other characters specials in the game, your are guranteed to die if 
 you are target on any stage period! Olimar is over powered though light and easy killed, players 
 that edge guard, meaning stay at the edge of the stage at all times causing you to walk over to 
 them to fight them the edge have insane advantage, and it makes the game cheap and not fun. And 
 finallly snake is very heavy, however is tap a combo is very fast and very veyr powerful when knocking 
 back, also his dashing attack is unstoppable by anything a character can do but a counter move, 
 if your character does not have a counter how can u stop this move from being spammed, if u dogde 
 out the way hes to far for any counter attack to reach before he able t block again. Pretty much 
 super smash bros brawl does have balance in alot of there characters just some of them were given 
 alot of strengths and no weakness, or the weakness didnt balance there strength making it inmpossible 
 to use every character against each other fairly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nokoryous
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  It goes without saying that the Super Smash Brothers series has been fantastic from the start. 
 Melee improved in every way over the original title, and I think we all expected Brawl to do the 
 same. And it did. Almost.
  
  The story mode here is the big win over the last title. A strong 20+ hour side-scrolling brawler 
 with inventive story, dazzling cinematics, and large scale boss battles gave a big shot in the 
 arm to a game whose only one-player mode until now pretty much WAS its multiplayer game. It also 
 introduces the new characters in a fun way, teaching you how to play with every character in the 
 game effectively along the way.
  
  The level builder too was a great addition, though it often feels very limited, there is almost 
 an intriguing challenge in finding a way to make an interesting level to play on with the short 
 list of building blocks that you're offered.
  
  Now like I said, this Smash SHOULD HAVE BEEN a perfect 10, but just a few "oopses" get in the way, 
 and it just leaves you feeling like the problems should have been ironed out before this great 
 title hit the shelf. The biggest complaint here arises when playing a 1 human vs. 3 computer player 
 (non-team) brawl. If you will go ahead and set all the computers to level 9 and play on the huge 
 hyrule level, you will quickly find that the computer opponents never seem to leave your side. 
 Though they were perfectly programmed in Melee to attack one another when it was the most obvious 
 advantage to them, they now clearly have an inclination to gang-bang the human player, and will 
 quietly stroll all the way across the level at one another's sides to personally see to it that 
 you never feel left out... of a beating. Now this is true for all stages, and all difficulty of 
 computers, but a large stage and high level opponents will quickly reveal that it's not all in 
 your head. That would have been an easy programming fix.
  
  Another drawback is in the balance that was lost in adding Smash Balls. Now I'm a huge advocate 
 of the smash ball itself, and there is nothing I like more than going Super-Wario on my friends 
 five smash balls in a row, but when you watch Falco, Fox, or Wolf take about seven lives with one 
 giant tank, then you see Peach put everyone to sleep and regain about 40% health after wandering 
 around the level waiting for them to wake up, you start to wonder how this is really fair. Even 
 great one-kill smashes like Marth, Mario, or Ike just don't really add up to Sonic's or the Star 
 Foxers' massive Smash Balls. This wouldn't be such a huge detractor except for the fact that the 
 great thing about Smash Brothers has always been that all the characters were totally different, 
 and it took a lot to master each of their unique traits, BUT IT WAS ALWAYS BALANCED! Smash balls 
 tend to destroy this wonderful balance when they almost added so much too it. Great idea, but missed 
 the mark again.
  
  The last thing I would like to add is that Peach, my favorite character from Super Smash Bros. 
 Melee has been completely ruined and is almost unusable. Her downward smash has been completely 
 soiled and is now useless. Unfortunately, it was one of her only reliable killing smash moves, 
 leaving her with... turnips. Other characters have trouble getting a quick kill too, like Meta 
 Knight, who I was very excited about until I found him to be crippled in comparison with power-additions 
 like Pit.
  
  It's a shame that these small things become such sore thumbs on a great game like Brawl. There 
 is so much about this game that rises above every other game on the market, and it is by far still 
 the best Wii title. But when you look at the problems now, and how they weren't present in the 
 past renditions, you just have to wonder if the programmers didn't finish all their work because 
 they were too busy playing Melee. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Hurricane89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  Game: Super Smash Brothers Brawl
  Platform (Console) : Nintendo Wii
  Players: Up to 4
  (Console Online Play) = yes.
  
  [b] Story: [/b] 10/10
  The storyline... The storyline... haha 
 this has got to be one of the only Super Smash Brothers games with a storyline. Some outerspace 
 guys come down from the Subspace universe and are trying to destroy the worlds and defeat the heros. 
 Now You fight alot of people throughout this game Ganondorf, Bowser, Ridley, Meta Ridely, those 
 are just a few to name. However the toughest has got to be the final boss. Later on in the game 
 you get bowser to join you though, and ganondorf, due to the fact the final boss was controling 
 the master hand, and that was why Ganondorf and bowser was doing his bidding, for they were loyal 
 to the master hand. so now its up to Mario and the Gang to save the Smash world and put an end 
 to the Tyranny of the Final Boss, Whom I shant give you the name of hehehe.
  
  
  
 
  [u] Graphics [/u] : 10/10
  The graphics, Despite it being nintendo and mostly a childrens company, are pretty good, there 
 is no childish graphics in this game, Link and Mario look like their newer selves and every character 
 has been revamped to look better then in Melee, The stages are pretty kick as as well, I'll put 
 a picture example below.
  
  
  
  [u] GamePlay [/u] : 10/10
 
  The gameplay itself isn't all that bad, its actually pretty fun once you get into it, whether 
 your a RPG player or a Fighter, You'll always have something to do in this game, wether it be to 
 collect trophies, Beat the game, or just plain out play online or train with friends. Theres always 
 something to do.
  
  
 
  
  [u] Sound [/u] : 10/10
  The sound is good, I mean you hear everything from footsteps to the hoo haa haaaaaa! Of Mario when 
 he's fighting his opponent, The feel the game gives you is amazing, And the fact that you can have 
 music not only from Melee, but from The original Super Smash brothers? Thats awesome.
  
  
  
  [u] Multiplayer [/u] : 
 10/10
  Wether your playing online, or your playing with friends upon the couch, this game's multiplayer 
 is all around fun. And pretty awesome as well, You get to control alot of characters, and you get 
 to show off wether you use the wiimote, or the Gamecube controler.
  
  
 
  
  [u] Control Complexity [/u] : 10/10
  The wiimote/Nunchuck combo takes some getting used to, The Wiimote alone is rather simple to use 
 cause it uses the basically same layout as the game cube controler, Now, The Gamecube controler 
 is the easiest to play with unless you don't remember how to play Melee.
  
  
  
  
 [u] ================ [/u]
  Rating: 5/5
  
  Overall Rating: 10/10
  
  Pros: Excellent game, Excellent everything.
  Cons: Last game of the series (Rumored)
  Overall 
 Comments: A Must have for any die hard gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: just_for_kicks
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  Since it's beginning on the N64 back in 1999, the Super Smash Bros series has had a winning formula 
 that has made it such a popular fighter. Its third installment Super Smash Bros. Brawl is no exception. 
 While keeping the formula of previous games it has added new features such as a story mode, more 
 single player modes such as boss battles and endless brawls, and challenges to keep the game fresh 
 and exciting to play.
  
  The story mode (Subspace Emissary) is a story where the 'Ancient Minister' and his subspace army 
 are setting off subspace bombs to take them to alternative dimensions where the subspace army rule. 
 The heroes team up to fight the enemy which have the power to turn them into trophies. Along the 
 way they find out that the Ancient Minister is really a subordinate of someone else. The story 
 mode takes you through a bunch of side scrolling levels and boss battles and even though the storyline 
 is simple, you can appreciate it for what it is. Your able to unlock most characters from playing 
 through the Subspace Emissary as well which is good for when you get around to the multiplayer, 
 the strongest point of the Super Smash series.
  
  Also packed into the single player is classic mode (in case you feel like playing old school smash 
 bros style) where you verse each player in order. There are stadium events where you can do range 
 of activities such as smash the targets (breaking 10 targets in the least amount of time) , endless 
 brawls where you set different limits to verse waves of enemies, home run contest (hitting a sandbag 
 with home run bat to get distance records) and boss battles where you play through all the boss 
 battles from Subspace Emissary. Returning from Melee also is the event matches where you have special 
 objectives to complete. Having so much packed into the single player gives the game many good hours 
 of game play, although the simplicity of some stadium events such as break the targets and home 
 run contest make them boring after a bit you come back to them to complete the challenges so you 
 can unlock different items. The beefed up single player in brawl is definitely a plus.
  
  After you have beaten single player its time to come onto multiplayer, the best part of the Super 
 Smash series. You and up to 3 bots (or up to 3 friends locally) fight it out on different stages 
 and with different weapons. Its obvious that they put good effort into the multiplayer as well. 
 There are 41 stages to be played on Brawl (although only 29 are available at the start) . Most environments 
 are interactive with them changing from day or night, or a character from the game that the level 
 is based on coming out to cause some mayhem. This feature is great, your able to use your surroundings 
 to help in your strategy more then you could in the previous games. The variety of levels is also 
 refreshing and keeps multiplayer interesting. Once you have unlocked all characters you can play 
 with up to 35 in multiplayer. You have the originals returning such as Mario, Kirby, Peach, Captain 
 Falcon and Yoshi and have new comers such as Diddy Kong, Ike and Pit. Some third party characters 
 have also join the party, Sonic the Hedgehog and Snake from Metal Gear Solid. All characters play 
 quite nicely, have decent move sets and are mostly different from each other. There is a nice balance 
 of characters who are slow but powerful, fast and not so powerful and some in between. This makes 
 it more fair as a slow character is unlikely to be outnumbered by 3 fast ones. New weapons have 
 been added to pick up, the most prominent one being the final smash ball. After hitting this the 
 ball to gain its power each you can unleash a power final smash attack to wipe your opponents off 
 the screen. Each character has a different final smash and it makes for a exciting conclusion or 
 come back in a battle.
  
  The graphics used brawl are pretty good, everything looks nice and the models are designed well. 
 The physics engine also has done the game justice with the animations of characters being hit and 
 slamming into things. The music collection is also very impressive, having classic tracks from 
 a range of Nintendo titles as well as new composed ones, they add great atmosphere to the game. 
 
  
  The game also feature online Wifi connection to play against other but my Wii isn't able to connect 
 to the net so I can not express my views on this part.
  
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is a brilliant fighter, carrying the legacy of its previous counterparts. 
 A fuller single player, more characters, stages and levels for multiplayer and challenges make 
 you come back to this game time after time. This is a must owned title for the Wii. Real score= 
 9.7 (Just can't give it a 10 without trying the online play.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebuckeye08
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  Not nearly as good as i expected it to be, everybody was saying how graet is was gamespot gave 
 it a 9.5., and im stuck here with a big ? on my face saying its not that good, well yeah its fun 
 in all but no superb, id give it a 7.8 but cant so rounded it to a 8,
  
  The Good: characters to unlock, fun to play with friends, story mode, unlock trophies, game demos, 
 the classic mode, tournament mode, and fun to brawl it out with othe players., wifi.
  
  The Bad: not anough characters, wifi sucks, wii was supose to be an online system and they totally 
 blew it, you get no record so players are ? blank to see/know how good you are, and what happened 
 to voice chat, no voice chat, no online tournaments?.
  
  50 bucks? no more like 40 or 30 dollars.
  but all in all a good game but only when you have a 
 room full of friends, and single player is fun, untill you beat the game and have unlocked everything, 
 the your sick of singal player, but it is a wii must have at some point in your wii gameing times. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anime_freak22
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 27, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  I was super exited about this game and bought it the first day it came out. At first, the game 
 is awsome. It was my first time playing it since I didn't have a chance to play the one in the 
 gamecube. 
  
  
  I really enjoyed it for a few weeks but after that it got boring. Don't get me wrong I love the 
 graphics, the story, ect. but it's all the same after a while. The online play can be better. There's 
 too much lagging, and I've been a long time waiting for it to find me an opponent. However there 
 is a lot of extra stuff you can do besides the story mode and you can be hours and hours finishing 
 all of it. 
  
  
  Overall, it's better to rent it and re-rent but that's it.
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bryce264
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is worth a lot more than 50 bucks, I'll tell you that outright. But to show you, I'm 
 going to do what every good reviewer does to myself time. (Pros and Cons)
  
  Pros:
  Addictive, unrepitetive, engaging, and hard to master gameplay.
  Includes 35 well-balanced players, 
 any of which you can beat the living crap out of people with, if you good enough. (I guess that's 
 what well'balanced means)
  Can last you forever and still not be bored, or even dulled, really.
  Has tons of characters 
 that each of us probably has a special attachment to, so you get TONS of Nostalgia and good memories.
 
  Has a wealth of modes, including (but excluding to) a story, boss, free-for-all, custom free-for-all, 
 wi-fi, home-run, target smashing, and survival modes.
  Sharp, precise, and unbeliveably accurate controls
  Incredible graphics
  Allows you to take 
 pictues (Big bonus)
  Requires an incredibly intense amount of strategy, control, intelligence, and reflexes if you want 
 to duel someone without items, or play with more than 2 people without items.
  The most unlockables in a Wii game to date.
  Doesn't require you to use motion controls.
  Has 
 soundtracks from vevery character's game, including some you may never had heard of, but are still 
 good.
  great cutscenes in advebture mode
  easter eggs are a blast (look for them in Gamespot)
  
  Cons:
  While there tons of players 
 to choose from, some still argue that they left out some important ones, such as Wolf Link, Tails, 
 Roy, and some poke'mon.
  Aventure mode has some dull, stupid, and downright miserable places in it. (but just a few)
  When 
 you have the Wii remote and nunchuck combination (which is the one I use and is the most popular) 
 it is difficult to distigiush between "strong" and "smash" attacks.
  
  Overall this is a great game for all ages, though I woudn't recommend it for girls. I love this 
 game and I have played this game for close to a year with no other game to play and I still love 
 it. $50.00 isn't much for game like this. if you haven't bought it already, I'm not going to say"Buy 
 it NOW!!" because that's a little rude and the economy is in the process of going down the drain. 
 I would STRONGLY recommend it for a christmas or birthday present though, or if you don't mind 
 spanding $50.00. But, and Gamespot agrees with me on this, it is every bit worth your money. They 
 won't let me, but I would give this a 9.8. Thanks for reading.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sir_jakey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 11:09 am PT
Review:  Super smash bros is an amazing game with over 41 stages to play on (not including creatable stages) 
 and 35 characters, some of which include the classics such as link, donkey kong, mario, luigi, 
 captain falcon, kirby, fox, pickachu, marth, mr game and watch, luigi peach, zelda, yoshi, ice 
 climber, ness, lucas, bowser and jigglypuff. whilst new characters include diddy kong, pit, metaknight, 
 falco, pokemon trainer, ike, snake, ganondorf, king dedede, wolf, lucario, sonic, wario, toon link, 
 rob, olimar and lucas. This time around they have added a story mode wich took me about 20 hours 
 to complete and had an interesting storyline wich kept me coming back to see what happened. other 
 single player modes include classic and all star mode wich are fun but after playing through them 
 a few times i got a little bored. The best part about the game is the multiplayer wich consists 
 of 4 players battling out for the mosts kills ( or coins depending on what mode it is set to) , special 
 brawl is also available in multiplayer and home run contest, 100 man brawl and boss battles can 
 all be played in 2 player. What really lets this game down is the online multiplayer wich takes 
 forever when playing against anyone in basic brawl or team battle and tends to lad if one of the 
 contestants have a slow internet connections but when playing against friends it goes much faster 
 and lags less during a match.
  
  This game is truly amazing and has a ton of replay value to collect hundreds of trophys, stickers 
 or character/stages. Anyone with a wii should get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tigerslayerxxx
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2008 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Brothers Brawl is easily one of the greatest, and most exhilarating experiences I have 
 had my multiplayer encounters. The wide variety of character selection is genius! Who knew Princess 
 Peach could kick so much ass? Conquering the Subspace Emissary is an easy achievement and a long, 
 fun way to acquire the last of the playable characters. This is definitely a game that will have 
 you coming back for more over and over again. So many different ways to battle, so many options 
 in how to battle, loads of different stages all different shapes and sizes, many great songs from 
 Nintendo classics, and an assortment of some of Nintendo's finest legends; maybe next time they 
 can get Bomber Man in there. Overall, this is a must have game. Even for the first-person shooter 
 fans, they threw in Snake just for you, which makes this an even more exceptional game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boomarley
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  The long-awaited follow-up to the mind-bogglingly popular Super Smash Bros. Melee is probably the 
 most hyped Wii game to date. Indeed there is justification for the end result. The game is jam-packed 
 with content, including hundreds of stickers and trophies to collect, and in addition to the modes 
 carried from Melee such as Event and All-Star, there is a new, feature-length adventure game to 
 play. The multiplayer fights are as frentic and action-packed as ever. Despite the slower pace 
 compared to Melee, the new emphasis on precision and racking up damage compared to just killing 
 opponents as quickly as possible certainly requires a different mindset to strategy and reflexes. 
 Older characters have been revamped with move changes ranging from simple improvement or gimping 
 for balance purposes to radical changes in moves, and new characters utilize different approaches 
 to battling. There is even a Stage Builder option that, while limited, is an excellent bonus for 
 the creatively inclined, and playing on well-designed stages adds a personal style to the art of 
 combat. In the theory of many, this should be a perfect game.
  
  So what accounts for the -1 point? The biggest flaw overall is the lack of improvement for the 
 series. Okay, so fighting game franchises in general aren't supposed to be particularly innovative, 
 but the step up from Smash Bros 64 to Melee was huge, and Brawl fails to match that. Melee added 
 new modes, a shipload of content, much better graphics, and of course, the characters and stages. 
 Brawl seems to have refined rather than added, and overall, the new material is no breakthrough 
 for the series. Final Smashes, heavily hyped, are merely a gimmick item that doesn't impact gameplay 
 much. The Adventure Mode, promised to be epic, is enjoyable, though it suffers from a lack of variety 
 and cutscene syndrome. Many new stages rely heavily on gimmick designs and gameplay balance suffers 
 on most of them, so only a few stages are actually fair. The much-vaunted Wi-Fi turned out to suffer 
 horribly from lag, though to be fair, this was one of the first attempts. Nonetheless, it is jarring 
 when Mario Kart Wii's Wi-Fi works spectacularly in comparison.
  
  There are issues with the single-player modes in contrast to Melee. The special point bonuses given 
 out in Classic mode that are a staple of the series have been removed, making it rather shallow. 
 Also, the events aren't quite as memorable, mainly due to some of the recycled material and that 
 there are 41 rather than 51 single-player events. Why the developers couldn't have put more effort 
 into the modes is unknown, and there is a slight feeling of it all being tacked on "because it 
 was all in Melee".
  
  Despite essentially being Melee 2.0 overall, the game is still addicting and fun. The minor nuances 
 do change the feeling of matches quite a bit, and it is still one of the best multiplayer experiences 
 around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlushTen
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  This game included the amazing Super Smash gameplay which we've come to expect. It remains almost 
 untouched from previous game Melee with the exception of stages, weapons, and characters. This 
 game is most entertaining with friends, and will become quite boring played alone... 
  
  The Mutliplayer is what this game is built around, although it does have some single player modes 
 none of then are as enjoyable as the multiplayer experience. This game have multiple modes and 
 will easily give you over 100 hours of entertainment. It's the kind of game you can always come 
 back to and still feel fresh!
  
  This game has some incredible new features that were not included in previous games in the series. 
 With game modes such as Rotation you'll be able to enjoy Super Smash with a lot more people. With 
 modes such as tournament you'll have your friends over in no time to see who is the best Super 
 Smash player! Probably one of the most worth while games available on the Wii!
  
  My two complaints are that the Sub-Space Emissary has a lame story, as well as not as fun gameplay 
 as could be expected and that there isn't even the slightest attempted to introduce motion into 
 the gameplay (you don't even aim your Wii mote to pick your character) and was oviously made with 
 the gamecube controller in mind. Other than that this game is amazing!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioboy333
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  When I first got this game I was exciting so much. I waited so long for this game. Now that I have 
 3 words to say Worth the wait. This game I had since March and I still did not beat it. When I 
 mean beat I mean unlock everything in the game. I almost unlock everything. They have a wide variety 
 of characters. like Olimar, Mario, Link, Donkey Kong, Diddy Kong. and more. I like the single player 
 adventure mode. I beat it on intense and it was very hard. The minigames are cool. Like home-run, and 
 multiman brawl. the boss battle mode is very fun. I beat on intense. It took me so many tries, but 
 I finally did it with Mario. The brawl mode never gets boring. I also liked how they included Sonic 
 and Snake in the game. The graphics are good and has so many modes. Now these are my best 4 characters 
 in order. ( Some are secret) 1. Toon Link 2. Sonic 3. Olimar 4. Mario This game is a must have. If 
 you get it you will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdaManTiuM_X
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 1:09 am PT
Review:  SSBB is a seriously awesome game, it just suffers from being on the Wii. This game offers more 
 of everything: more characters, maps, items, challenges, and even online play! Battles are as frantic 
 as ever, and the inclusion of solid snake and sonic was just like icing on a cake. It was perfect..... until 
 the whole Wii issue kicked in. Like many "hardcore" players have said, there just aren't a lot 
 of reasons to continue playing the Wii, and the biggest reason for me was that the people I used 
 to play this game with have moved on to other games on other systems. With not a lot of friends 
 playing the game anymore, I find myself playing games on other systems as well. But by far the 
 biggest disappointment is the online play. The Wii has an online system that just does not work 
 for gamers who are used to XBL or PSN. Mainly being, there's no voice chat or friends list. When 
 I played matches online, it felt like I was just playing against slightly more difficult bots, 
 and the communal sense was completely lacking. That said, this game is definitely the best in the 
 series, and the characters are pretty well balanced. Some characters are harder to master, but 
 once you get good with a character, its really satisfying to pwn people left and right. This game 
 deserves to be played more, and I'm blaming the Wii, just like the thousands of other Wii owners 
 whose systems are collecting dust out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonberry64
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl is hands down the best game out for the wii. It has flawless gameplay and 
 good controls. Mulipalyer is great. It is full of stickers, music, and trophies to unlock to have 
 you plaing for months. An awsome party game and pretty dang good for solo also. In my opinion, 
 the best game of the year if not ever! Annyone with a wii must have this game! Melee was an awsome 
 game but brawl is 100 times better than melee was! The biggest change probly being the much bigger 
 and better adventure mode, the Subspace Emisary. Also the character roster is alot stronger this 
 time around. Playing with sonic the hedgehog against solid snake is awsome. Even the stages are 
 way better. Also now in brawl you have the ability to create youre own stages to brawl on. Another 
 improvement I like is the soundtrack. The music in this game is some good music. To sum it up it 
 is a great game and you cant pass it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DIEHARD117
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  ok its like this N64 was the first platform smash bros came out on then the game cube wanted to 
 give it a try and for the most part was really good but extremely had. now its here and had so 
 much potenchle and they screwed its all up..... and by that i mean the wii's controls have so many 
 possibility's and yet sooo many games dont take that great gift. like this one same old controls 
 such a waist... but anyways still a great game amazing characters and for the most part a fun and 
 exciting game. the bosses not so much absalutly no strategy and takes the fun outa story mode. 
 then theres the mlti playa which is really what the game is about kicken ur bff's ass in a smack 
 down body slam with mario and all ur fav nintendo ppl so its a great party ame but not so much 
 alone. so hope you enjoyed this and was helpful other wise i just waisted time that could have been 
 used for a game so @_@ \/ bye bye ;)
  @ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kid591
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  This game offers a great multiplayer action and solo action. This game is a lot of fun for people 
 who like fighting games and for those who like Nintendo. If you have not played the game I suggest 
 that you go to a friend who has it and play it. There are 2 special guests Sonic from SEGA and 
 Solid Snake from Konami. There is most of the Nintendo characters like Link, Kirby, Fox from Star 
 Fox. There is also Secret Characters I will only tell you 1 Marth from Fire Emblem { Japan only} . 
 This is a very fun game for who like to kick butt. It gets better because you can make fun of the 
 losers. That is what I do when I go against my brother and his friends. It is a very nice game any 
 of you who have not heard of it well you dont no what you are missing. I will give you 2 more Ness 
 and Falco from Star Fox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgres077
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl is one of the flagship titles for the Nintendo Wii and it delivers everything 
 that Nintendo promised it would. Super Smash Bros Brawl plays similarly to Super Smash Bros Melee, 
 one of the most popular fighting games to ever grace the video game world. If you were a fan of 
 SSBM, you will surely enjoy SSBB even more than you did Melee.
  
  Super Smash Bros Brawl has so much content I've put in well over 100 hours to date and have yet 
 to exhaust even half of the content available. There are a ton of modes to have fun with in Brawl 
 including your standard versus matches, special brawl's (allows you to have fun with a ton of different 
 options which I won't go in depth into here) , single player modes that include the return of Classic 
 Mode, Events, Home Run Contest, and Target Smash. Also new to Brawl is the Subspace Emissary, which 
 will have you battling through various stages and facing bosses along the way. The Subspace Emissary 
 adds a new feature to Brawl, and it will take you about 10-12 hours to complete.
  
  One of the criticisms of Super Smash Bros Brawl has been about it's online capabilities. Many have 
 criticized Brawl's online saying it has too much lag, however whenever I play online I play with 
 absolutely no lag. Much of that criticism came within the first few days after Brawl's release 
 when the servers were overloaded with players eager to battle online. A few weeks after the release 
 of the game however the servers were able to keep up with demand and I have been Brawling online 
 lag-free since.
  
  Brawl's online play allows you to play online either "With Friends" or "With Anyone." If you play 
 with friends you have registered through Friend Codes you have many more options available to you 
 than if you choose to play with random people through the "With Anyone" option. If you play "With 
 Friends" you can change up the options in your matches, however if you play "With Anyone" you will 
 only be able to play in standard 2 minute brawls. If you play with your friends online you can 
 also participate in cooperative Home Run Contests and Multi-Man Brawl's.
  
  One aspect to Brawl that I enjoy is the ability to enter your name and choose your name every time 
 you battle with friends or against a computer. The game then tracks your stats and you can look 
 back to see how many hours you've played, what your hit percentage is, your total KO's, the list 
 goes on and on. It's a nice feature that let you compare how you stack up against your friends.
 
  
  Brawl offers a ton of content under it's "Vault" section. A sampling of the goodies in this section 
 are the abilities to see your stickers and trophies you have collected, view your snapshots and 
 videos you have saved, play short trial versions of old Nintendo games, and use one of my favorite 
 features, the Stage Builder. The Stage Builder allows you to create unique stages that you can 
 play on your console, or send to your friends through Nintendo's Wi-Fi Connection. You can also 
 send your snapshots and videos to your friends via Wi-Fi as well.
  
  I have only begun to scratch the surface of all of the features Brawl offers in this review, however 
 now I will focus on what I like and don't like about the game. Honestly there isn't anything negative 
 I have to say about this game. The gameplay is flawless, there are 35 characters (some you have 
 to unlock) , 41 stages (again, you have to unlock some) , and a ton of options that will keep you 
 entertained for hours at a time. Brawl offers so much content that after 100 hours of gameplay 
 I have still not nearly exhausted all of the features available in this game.
  
  If you can get a group of friends together to play Brawl, no matter their skill level, you will 
 have a blast with Brawl. Brawl allows you to tailor your experience to how you want to play. You 
 can have a ton of items on, or none at all, have handicaps if you are playing with players of different 
 skill levels, and you can go online if you want to test your skills against others around the world. 
 Super Smash Bros Brawl is a must have game for the Nintendo Wii, if you don't yet have it I suggest 
 you go out and purchase it as soon as you can. I can almost guarantee it will be quite some time 
 until you need to purchase another game for the Nintendo Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shyguy75
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  this was better than the others but for some reason they left some of the melee characters out 
 like doctor mario also the target tests were way to easy for all you newbs to smash brothers games 
 and yes that is the right name for the series not bros nintendo just abreviated on the newest one. 
 there were many other characters that people think should be on the roster like shadow who was 
 recently discovered by a young questionable often lying kid says that he was unlock by betting 
 taboo 5 6 or 7 times as sonic only never die and turn into anyone else but sonic so doe not die 
 while trying this well not you I mean the character sonic for those who have not beaten the game 
 or beat it by doing 453 brawls like me taboo is the final boss you meat in the great maze well 
 I guess the rest of you should go wait 4 or 5 more years until the next smash comes out on the 
 wiivolution oops I was not allowed to tell you that last part but you did not here it from me remember!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Negative7000
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  The most successful series Nintendo has had. Third game, the most fun. With a larger character 
 selection, the addition of smash balls and assist trophies, this game couldn't help but have high 
 expectations. The pressure to make it the best didn't effect it though. Each character has their 
 own moves, final smashes, and unique taunts. Adventure and All Star mode have been continued, along 
 with an actual story line. The addition of stickers, the coin launcher, the ability to take pictures 
 and videos, online play, and even create your own stages definitely made this game worth while 
 too. Even guest players appeared, such as Sonic and Solid Snake. This made me very excited. There 
 was nothing to keep this game from getting better in the first place. All the creators had to do 
 was improve. 10/10, just keep it up Nintendo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_OmegaHunter
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Sound: the sound FX in this game are amazing but I've got to say one of my favorite things about 
 this game is the extensive collection of classic and remastered music, anywhere from Star Fox Assault: 
 wolfs theme to Meta Knight's revenge, as well as numerous tracks from Super Smash bros Melee. 
 
  
  Game play: the game play is fun and easy to learn but hard to master. One new thing that has been 
 added are moves called final smashes, where the player has to break open a smash ball by attacking 
 it and then harnessing its power to unleash a powerful final smash attack. Each Character has a 
 unique final smash. 
  
  Graphics: the game also has sweet graphics, Much better then those in melee. Not to mention a ton 
 of beautiful and sometimes humourous cut scene's in the Sub space emissary mode.
  
  Overall: Overall this game is unbelievable the graphics, the fun game play, and music, with its 
 many game play modes, literally hundreds of detailed trophies, stickers to collect and a bunch 
 of cool stages to battle on, Super smash bros brawl will have you coming back again and again.
 
  
  ~The_OmegaHunter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkinnyCord
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  The game is still just as good as before! The game has had its exploited glitches taken out like 
 "Wave Dashing" so its be come easier for anyone to win now. Its balanced so the hardcore gamer 
 can play and the casual. The graphics are much better that the last only with a few contact problems 
 but the characters look great. So many characters to choose from with some special ones like "Solid 
 Snake" & "Sonic The Hedge Hog!"The online play lacking a little but only because of the way Nintendo 
 has it set but this doesn't make you want it any less. You may battle a random person online an 
 decide you wanna play him another day and be his friend but no, thats not and option. Your not 
 able to use your custom taunts or show your name. The brawls are also online to minutes each but 
 thats so anyone can find a match any second. Even tho, the games online lacks just a bit you will 
 love this game none the less. Playing wit your friends is so fun it never gets boring. I was playing 
 "Melee" Ever since i first brought it and i enjoy "Brawl even more so not much more has to be said. 
 A great game to pick up, go get it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidafly
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get 
 it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get 
 it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get 
 it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get 
 it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get 
 it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get 
 it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it NOW Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get 
 it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get 
 it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get 
 it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get 
 it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get 
 it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get 
 it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get 
 it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it Get it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warrior427
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  I love this and I love nintendo this in my opinoun has to be one of the greatest fighting games 
 of all time all of the characters from the nintendo games are so awsome mario bowser link there 
 is such a great roster and they even have there own finishers this time around and there is way 
 more stages the graphics and everything have been upgraded since melee and in this game they have 
 the trophy system and the new sticker system along with this there are tons of new game modes and 
 mini games to play so you'll likely never get bored with it and the creators went as far as putting 
 in acheivment system that I thought was cool because unlike Xbox 360 you dont get points you unlock 
 somthing in the game like a stage or special song but by far one of the coolest things in the whole 
 game is the stage builder Ive wanted this from the very firs smash brother there is alot you can 
 do here but the bad thing is no downloadable content so you cant get any new props or anything 
 that goes for characters to This game also has as a storyline with cut scene and everything I thought 
 it was a big step up from the storyline form in melee but alot of people didnt like it because 
 the game is supposed to be a fighter not a platformer but I just think it is a cool addition to 
 a already great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihatelowfatmilk
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2008 1:52 am PT
Review:  It might have taken what seemed like a long time for this game to come out, but Super Smash Bros. 
 Brawl was definetly worth the wait. From collecting trophys to completing an all new lengthy adventure 
 mode, there is enough stuff to do in Brawl to keep you occupied for a long time. The soundtrack 
 for this game held an impressive amount of music, and you could even choose what music you wanted 
 to play for the stages that you had. The introduction of the new item the Smash Ball only made 
 battleing it out that much more fun. Even if you were playing by your self, you could have a blast 
 playing this game with all of the event matches, target tests, and more that you could do. And 
 if you wanted to fight someone but no one was around, you can go onto the Wi-Fi where there is 
 always someone to fight. In short this game is a must have for anyone with a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam3231
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever heard the saying..
  
  "You can't judge a book by it's cover," ? 
  
  That doesn't apply here. You're gonna love this game from the moment you set your eyes on it in 
 gamestop. You're going to love this game so much that it will have its own spot in your gamer library. 
 I'm talking off the shelf, on the ground, upside down, out of the case, right next your wii when 
 ever in need of immediate gaming satisfaction. None of your friends even think about touching that 
 disc because they remember the last kid that crossed that line hasn't seen anything but your basement 
 walls for the last 6 months.
  
  Alright enough joking around time for the review. For the most part this game rocks my socks. It 
 is the best multiplayer gameplay the wii has to offer to date. I mean there is nothing more satisfying 
 then throwing a bomb at your friends character and blowing them into oblivion. Or finishing them 
 off with the new "Final Smash" move. With tons of characters, levels, and gameplay modes you will 
 be sure to have a blast for hours and hours to come till you are completely smash fried as I like 
 to call it. 
  
  You can even keep your self entertained alone by playing the "Subspace Emissary," Not necessarily 
 my favorite thing but it will satisfy your hunger one time around. There's also classic, and all-star 
 modes from the previous release so you can do some solo comp stomps.
  
  The only thing that stains this smash release is the wifi, its horrible. It is nothing like offline 
 play. The lag ranges from noticeable to unplayable, often you will hit moves but the response will 
 come late.
  
  Aside from the wifi, I would say this game is probably the wii's finest in multiplayer and best 
 wii game of 2008. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic_freak_199
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 7:44 am PT
Review:  amazing graphics mario looks real all around amazing! and sonic was in it  
 m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 
 m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 
 m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m mm 
 m m m m m m m m m m mm m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m mmm m m mm m m m m m m m 
 m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 
 m m m m m m m 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilpilli
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Sure the graphics are great, and all the new mods gives the game a great new look, but when it 
 came to game play i was very disappointed. compared to meele the fighting in the game was nothing. 
 even the first game had better game play. Nintendo cut so many things out from Meele, like: L-canceling, 
 gliding, and easy short jumping. These things is what divides professional players and good players. 
 since this has been cut out in brawl you cannot be a professional player playing brawl. if you 
 want to really compete in a ssb game get meele, it's the only game you can really play professional. 
 
  Brawl has a better story mod than ever before, but it's to short and it makes it to easy to unlock 
 characters, the beauty of the ssb games is to struggle finding the hidden characters.
  Brawl is a fun game to get out if your little cousin is coming for a visit, but not the best game 
 to compete with your friends in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0wn3d_br4wl
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 1:32 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is definitely one of the best games ever and stands as one of the biggest 
 fighting games, ever.
  
  With a huge character list of 35 different characters consisting of Nintendo and third party characters 
 that will last you years. The Subspace Emissary is the adventure mode but it was the only downside. 
 Long boring levels made it the worst part. However, the cut-scenes were excellent and had extremely 
 detailed graphics.
  
  The multiplayer is very addictive and the Final Smashes (special attacks) are so so cool. Items 
 like Pokeballs and Assist Trophies sent out some guy who helps you smash your opponent of the screen 
 are very useful. I personally like Kirby's copy ability which lets you copy another characters 
 special move.
  
  Overall, this is a must have for gamers and non-gamers a like and is a great game to play with 
 friends.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: luxma
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  The time I spend on games are usually fair but if your looking for a great game to sit down and 
 have some meaningless cartoon violence then this is for you. Now the graphics are pretty good for 
 the wii, and the story is all the hipe. But as far as fun goes it gets old FAST, and the puzzle 
 at the end seams to drag on for ever. In the game's story mode you start off in the Pokemon arena 
 and you chose between Curby or Mario, and your fighting for no apparent reason. Then a giant plant 
 with giant teeth comes in and captures Peach and Zelda whom were watching the fight. So Mario and 
 Curby make an alliance to get the princesses. and the story jumps to character to character. eventually 
 they all meat up and save the day. Kids you'll love it. Racing game fans (like me) or war-far lovers 
 you'll hate it. Personally its not the worst. You decide for your self but please rent before buying 
 because, like I said its all on preference. This is a perfect family game especially if you want 
 to take a blast to the past. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: republicftw
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  this game has very good multiplayer and gets very competative playing with friends. And its fun 
 to attempt to get all the stickers, trophies and, CD's unless you use cheap way. The story is fun 
 although its sad to see that every character except three of them are unlocked by just completeing 
 story in any mode. Also online isn't too good but i dont expirence very much lag usely. For me 
 the challenges are very hard because im not "pro" so if your good at these games you will be able 
 to enjoy more of a full experience. Great for parties too just because it gets very competative. 
 So if you own a Wii and haven't picked up a copy i highly suggest you do. Plus with all the added 
 features like save replays, custom courses, and co-op modes IMO it definately beats SSBM. I Hope 
 that i have helped some people decide on getting this game thank you for reading!=D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferron321
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  Summary: With a plethora of both modern and retro Nintendo characters, online play and an excellent 
 single and multiplayer experience, the third addition to the Super Smash Bros series is yet another 
 triumph for Nintendo.
  
  Pros: A fairly lengthy and immersive single player. Somewhat lag-free online play. Heavily customizable 
 stages and multiplayer matches. A large character roster. A relevant and well produced soundtrack. 
 The ability to share your screenshots and replays with friends.
  
  Cons: Custom levels can not be used on the online multiplayer matches. Occasional lag can ruin 
 an online match. Some sections of the single player mode can seem repetitive.
  
  
  Super smash bros returns once again with this triumphant addition to the series. With yet more 
 characters, stages, features and a new story campaign to be completed, theres alot new for those 
 looking for some good multiplayer fun, or a manic fighting game with a hint of nostalgia. Previous 
 fans will not be disappointed, as Brawl brings much of the same to the franchise, whilst improving 
 on previous downsides. Newcomers are also accommodated for with the use of simple controls that 
 give you full control over the action with ease, whether you prefer to stick to the Gamecube controller, 
 use a Wiimote and Nunchuck, or go with the surprisingly easy to use horizontal Wiimote setup.
 
  
  
  
  Gameplay: 9
  
  Super Smash Bros Brawl brings much more of the same manic button-mashing action that the previous 
 2 titles did, beginning with Super Smash Bros for the N64 8 years ago. A lengthy single player 
 campaign named "The Subspace Emmisary" has the full roster of Nintendo characters fighting against 
 a mysterious force attempting to consume the world. Each level of the campaign is separated by 
 a well rendered, and often comedic cut-scene which has well known (and some not-so well known) 
 characters working together to do thier part. The story will keep many entertained for a good 10-15 
 hours of gameplay, which may eventually run dry due to the often feeling of repetitiveness that 
 can come from the same side-scrolling, 2-hit enemies. That said, the single player experience is 
 a definite improvement from past installments, as it seems more thought has been put forward this 
 time.
  
  The gameplay experience is greatly improved by the multiplayer modes that definitely keep you and 
 a group of friends coming back for more action. As well as being able to create your own stages 
 for multiplayer use, there is alot of customization to be done to the basic modes, such as modifying 
 the amount of stamina you begin a level with, how fast your character moves, or what items appear 
 and how often. This results in an abundance of replayability factor that doesn't seem to run dry 
 anytime soon.
  
  The online exprience delivers good, solid and fairly lag-free gameplay, which has you brawl-ing 
 it out against players all over the world as your favorite past and present game characters. The 
 wide variety of stages and characters, along with the notion of never having the same match twice 
 makes the online play a key selling point for Brawl.
  
  Sound: 9
  
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl features a fitting and nostalgic sound track produced by 36 different composers 
 that makes the action all the more fulfilling. Featuring theme tunes from previous games for each 
 character, it can bring a relevant feeling to each stage, whilst making the cutscenes either eerie, 
 or comical. Music during brawls is usually fast paced and goes well with the intense fighting action 
 to give an all around immersive feel. Music is also made interactive in the game with a collectibles 
 system, rewarding you with theme tunes and songs from nintendo games for completing certain stages, 
 secret areas and challenges.
  
  Overall: 9
  
  Nintendo have done an excellent job with the latest addition to the Super Smash Bros series with 
 Brawl. It builds upon what made the past two games great, improving on what was faulty in the past 
 games and including what was absent, whilst including the charm and sheer re-playability of past 
 games. The 35 strong character roster and 41 playable interactive stages truly makes this the best 
 in the series, and a must own for all Wii gamers, both casual and hardcore alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreenFire95
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  ah yes, The Smash era has returned to us. this game is very awesome. it focuses more on the all-around 
 age croud than most Wii games, so many people bought their Wii just for this awesome game. lets 
 take a look at how much of an update smash got, shall we?
  
  The good:
  -Man, characters look more up-to-date than how they did in melee (kirby wasn't quite as round as 
 he is today)
  -lots of fun stages with great detail
  -graphics are a huge update, i dont know how people don't realize them (omg DK actually LOOKS like 
 he has hair! XD)
  -Final Smashes may seem unfair to people, but they feel so good to use if they put you in a lead
 
  -Spikes got a much better update, they were pretty hard to pull off in Melee and Smash 64
  -Wi-Fi is a lot of fun, if not so random
  -Stage builder? GREAT IDEA!
  -glitches make the game 
 fun sometimes :D
  -adventure mode is great and fun
  -better picture angle is more fun
  
  and as with every game, there are some things that just don't seem right.
  -graphics couldve 
 been much better (lots of things on stages are PPAINTED on or whatever its called)
  -many characters are either too light (Meta Knight) or too heavy (Snake)
  -Ike's smash attacks 
 and Super Sonic are wayyyyy too overpowered
  - CPU character's AI are incredibly low
  -random tripping is annoying and can put you in trouble
  -many characters like Pit and Pikachu 
 are too spammy
  -sometimes like in Pikachu and Samus' case, SSE drags on too long and may get boring until the 
 end comes
  -Basic Brawl is very random and lags a lot (sometimes I sit in the training room for 10 minutes 
 with nobody, then I disconnect -_-)
  
  these r just my ideas. if you have different points of view for the game, dont yell at me. only 
 if I say something completely strange about the game like "WHERE IS LOUIE?!" but in summary: SSBB 
 is an incredibly fun game that can last many people a long time. the Single player can now have 
 another person jump in, and Wi-Fi is great althought there may be some errors. no game is completely 
 perfect. they all have at least one error!
  
  Green~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ayhokkuu
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  as it is a great multiplayer, it also has this time somewhat of a decent solo player. THEY EVEN 
 HAVE A STORY MODE THIS TIME (which is also pretty awesome) and if I have to be telling you to get 
 the game now, I am VERY disappointed in you... they have lots of new characters in this game, and 
 even more stages. they also have a pretty awesome thing where you can play on some melee stages 
 AND build your own stage (a little annoying and strict) . They did a lot of cool stuff in this game 
 tho, and lots of stuff you can do when your bored of one thing. Plus, there's always online playing, 
 which is filled with tough crowds. well anyways this game is a classic but at the same time new 
 and primped up. if you didn't think the earlier smash bros. where good, your in for a HUGE change 
 of mind. Well anyways if you looking at games to get, this is no doubt THE one for EVERYBODY i 
 don't care who you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluteboy95
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  When this game was announced, I thought, oh brother. Another copy of the First Super Smash Bros. 
 Then I started to read the previews, and look at the images, and watch the videos.
  
  . . . I thought, OH my god. . . this game looks graphically proficient. . . It has a story mode. 
 . . It has Solid Snake.
  
  AWESOME
  
  The Subspace Emmisary *a. k. a. the adventure mode, up two players. has an awesome story. Even though 
 no one ever speaks, it could keep my five year old brother with the attention span of a new-born 
 puppy hooked.
  
  It kept the classic mode, but that just feels stapled on.
  
  There are plenty of characters, and the only thing that I can complain about is that there are, 
 when you look at them in black and white, about 10 caracters. The exact same moves are used with 
 about 5 different people.
  
  when you add in the torphy system 8 out of 10. All- star mode 9.7 out of 10. multiplayer 15 out 
 of 10, it was beautifully done, completely amazing. online play has its occasional freeze ups, 
 but other than that 9.5 out of 10. custom stages, could of been so much more, but, then again, 
 it was a totally original idea, or at least somewhat, 8.5 out of ten.
  
  All of this fantasic setup for a game plus much, much, much, much, much, much, much, much more. 
 9.5, awesome game!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScarabSwarm
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Boy, getting this 3 days early was the best 3 days of my life but after a week or so it was all 
 no flash but big hype. I find the physics lack and how it's more based off ariel combat that anything. 
 The set-up is so bad that with that big selection of charecters and stages I always choose RANDOM. 
 The game was alot of hype big little re-play value. It's fun when you have friends but if you just 
 liv in your basement playing Dungeons and Dragons than it's a HUGE rent. Sorry it's sooo short 
 but when I have more time I'll make a more detailed one. C ya on Wi-Fi
  
  Scarab Swarm
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zarif99
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Super smash bros is at its peak when it goes multiplayer. Always playing smashbros with no-one 
 else is like having a party all by yourself. I like the part where you can make your one stages 
 at only you know best. The controlls aren't that hard to pick up and you will have a lot of fun 
 with friends once they get the hang of it. You can challenge the game solo or co-operatively. The 
 story is really cool and makes you wonder what will happen next. I especially like the story mode 
 because it introduces all the nintendo characters in a really cool way and how they are linked 
 to the same mission and how they all become a team at the end. You can also customize your team 
 with all your favourite bros. You can even make your dream team and make them strong by putting 
 stickers on them found through out the story mode. It's good that theres a training dojo where you 
 can get the hang of the game. I guess the only bad part is that some characters dont have much 
 attacks as others do. Overall its a great game in which once you start you cant stop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mightychir
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is just another great addition to nintendos library of incredible games. 
 It just shows how crazy and intense a multiplayer game can be in the middle of a brawl. With third 
 party characters ( sonic and snake) and new characters to the mix, there is a big variety of people 
 to choose from. The new stages are great and even better is that u can create your own levels ( 
 although when u finish the editor, it feels a bit simple.) The subspace emissary has a great story 
 to it but the levels get kinda of old once u keep playing. not much of the graphics have improved 
 but it isnt that dated for people saying it to be the same as a gamecube game.
  The music selection is great and old tunes bring u back to the old days. Online is a great feature 
 but it is too private compared to the other nintendo wii online games that u cant even see their 
 names!!!!!!! Brawl is a great game that every wii owner should have and at a great deal of 50$, 
 it is a must especially for a hardcore nintendo fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pikminmaniac
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Just for the local multiplayer alone, this game is more than worth 60 dollars. I'd have paid at 
 least 150 dollars for that alone, but there is WAY more in this package. In fact it would take 
 even more than a 13 page essay in small font to tell you how much is in this game. It kills Melee 
 in the gameplay department. It is Smash in its most perfect form! All the glicthes from before 
 are gone and the gameplay is completely refined. The character additions are amazing and are much 
 more diverse than before. Nothing is better than an excellent fighting game with your favorite 
 video game characters! I get to beat other people up with my favorite gaming character of all time, 
 OLIMAR (from pikmin) . Level editor is another amazing addition and you can save replays. I have 
 clocked in almost 300 hours on my Wii and even more on my friends' Wiis. This game is gonna last 
 me forever, unless the next Smash manages to be better. 
  
  To sum up: BUY THIS GAME AND GET HUNDREDS OF HOURS OUT OF IT!!!
  
  P. S. I cannot state how 
 much better than Melee this game is! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tktomo01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Note: I haven't made a review in while because I'm lazy and I'm still playing MGS4 and hyping Gears 
 of War 2. On my day off of hyping and playing game bliss, I'm writing a review for a game I've 
 had for a while. Enjoy.
  
  
  I thought the Orange Box was packed. While it may seem strange that I'm comparing two opposite 
 franchises, there is a reason for this madness. Both games defy all common logic and stuff their 
 discs with so much I'm blown away as to how the discs don't explode. While I believe the Orange 
 Box still has a bit more, achieving this amount of content on the inferior Wii and still be ultra 
 polished is a feat of modern technology.
  
  Graphics and Sound: Surprising absolutly no one, this game is gorgeous, and stands on my list of 
 the only really good looking Wii games list (remember Prime 3 and Galaxy?) . As for the sound... 
 There simply isn't enough to say. How in the hell does Nintendo find a way to fit nearly 350 songs 
 in a single game still, and then remix more than half of them is beyond me. 
  
  Controls: I'm probobly the only person that isn't practically criplled by the sideways Wiimote 
 (what a stupid pun by the way) , and the Nunchuck/Wiimote (so God d*** stupid!) is unfit for a fighter, 
 to say the least. But the Classic and Gamecube variations work perfect. Super simple, super tight, 
 and thankfully super lacking in motion controls.
  
  Story: I was just amazed at the Subspace Emmisiary. Epic, tight, fun, and co-operative. This is 
 the high water mark for fighters. It also wins best cut-scenes of the year award for being both 
 hilarious and awe-inspiring. 
  
  Multiplayer: I have never, ever played this online, so if the online sucks, fine, but I won't waste 
 my time with Nintendo's online any day. I do know about the awesomness of local play though. Playing 
 the many different types and modifications of the gametypes on Brawl, Melee, or your very own custom 
 maps (more on this later) is superb. The stages are possibly my personal favorite part of Brawl, 
 because their graphically amazing and constantly changing and shifting, be it the weapons and items 
 spawning or the very geometry of the map changing. Theres also a wealth of great co-op modes to 
 spice things up. 
  
  Other: The custom stage builder is brilliant, if just slightly limited as far as the background 
 and scenery. Classic is just as fun as it always was, though I was downright appalled by the end 
 credits. Just a short scroll of pictures and names, and then its gone. Melee's was so epic, how 
 could Ninteno replace it with something as boring as listening to elevator muscic? However, the 
 vast amount of unlockables and gamemodes more than makes up for the s***** credits.
  
  Overall: 9.50/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Y-1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  The game of the century has arrived and I love it! It has all the jazz as the Melle one except 
 better. There are new characters such as old. You can make your own stage too! I love the new stages 
 as I am glad they kept some old. I prefer playing as Mario for new comers to this game cause he 
 is in the exact middle out of all the characters. I believe they could've made less copy characters 
 like Fox, Falco, and Wolf. I also am glad that ganondorf is now a little bit more different than 
 Captian Falcon. i love that they added Sonic and Snake in the mix. I also like the assist trophies. 
 i also like the new charcters in brawl ( Ike , R. O. B, Toon Link) . But I wished they kept some old 
 ones like Roy and Mewtwo. Now there are down sides to this fine game like the slow loading and 
 not having the ability to chat with other WI-FI players ( bummer) This is my favorite game of all 
 time ( so far) . Y-1 over and out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CazmoV
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 4:56 am PT
Review:  Well? Where do I start? 
  The last few months of playing this game have been utter hardcore heaven! 
  I bought this game 
 about 5 days after the release date, gob-smacked that it wasn't sold out (after the massive hypes 
 and casual vs hardcore debates) . I took it home, I started Subspace Emissary... and I felt that 
 I almost HAD to like it. I just wasn't feeling it. Sure, it was okay, but it just didn't seem like 
 anything special to me. Every day I played it, and I gradually got into it a little more, a little 
 more... this was an awesome game.
  But it wasn't until I got 2 of my best friends Matt and Bryn round for a sleep-over, that I realized 
 how incredible this game was. We played it for over 6 hours, until 5:30 in the morning where we 
 only stopped because we fell asleep whilst playing. It was more addicting than GTA IV, a better 
 multiplayer gave than COD 4. This was the ultimate party game...
  
  SUBSPACE EMISSARY 
  
  This is probably my favorite mode of the game, purely because it offers hours of excitement 
 and action whilst playing solo. Ever felt like watching Mario beat the crap out of Princess Peach? 
 Or maybe the other way around? This is your kind of game. Wario is up to no good as usual, turning 
 all of your favorite Nintendo characters into stone and taking them away from you. You control 
 over 30 characters throughout the story to try and put a stop to his ways.
  
  Goods - Brilliant difficulty setting depending on
  your skill, giving you the ultimate experience.
 
  
  Great platform levels as well as speedy brawls 
  and ferocious boss levels.
  
  Something for everyone from hardcore SSB fans to
  brawling beginners.
  
  Bads - Hmm... I 
 honestly can't think of any...
  
  
  CLASSIC 
  
  The mode that you all loved from the previous games. Fight your way through 12 brawls to get to 
 the final boss... THE MASTER HAND! The easiest way to collect trophies of your favorite characters, 
 but incredible fun collecting them all. 
  
  Goods - 12 pure brawls
  
  A great way of practicing
  
  Bads - A little bit TOO easy to collect character trophies (many 
 just use easy mode as an advantage)
  
  
  GROUP - The party mode you've all been waiting for. This mode is one that you should introduce 
 to all of your friends, whether they're hardcore fighters or simulator sops. Offers hours of fun.
 
  
  Goods - A great way of collecting unlockable characters.
  
  Using custom stages is always a laugh.
  
  Tons of ways to change from a regular brawl to 
 
  a wacky wonder brawl.
  
  Bads - Can get slightly repetitive in large 
  quantities.
  
  There are several other modes that I could cover. But they are all so great, and I don't need 
 to bore you with the details. The only proper let down from this game is the WI: FI mode. Brawling 
 against players from Japan to your local town, this mode should have been group mode, but more. 
 But it isn't. The bad lag and lack of brawl varieties causes this game to lose important marks. 
 Sure, WI: FI is still pretty good with Brawl, but it could be better.
  
  Overall, this game is a must have for all you beat 'em up fans, but don't be too disappointed if 
 you can't get your wii online for it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Allaroundfan_-1
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  GameSpot username: Allaroundfan_-1, Total Gaming Network username: randomduded12
  *go to http://www. totalgamingnetwork. com/main/showthread. php? t=179319 because Gamespot might cut 
 my review short*
  go there to see the whole review. Gamespot cuts me off too quickly.
  
  * Please note that all insults are just poor jokes and as such do not deserve to be commented upon 
 if you disagree with them, but please do comment upon anything else you think I missed or disagree 
 with me on (BTW, I only covered the major sections of the game because frankly there are too many 
 parts and the majority of what I didn't cover only disappointed me further (except the music, that 
 pretty much could not have been better) ) *
  
  My information:
  My brawl fc is 0087-1981-1001
  Call me rmdud or rdude
  and my Wii fc is 4835 1667 2054 0547 
 call me saberwolf
  PM me with your code, if you would like to play sometime.
  
  If you are one of the few people left who has never heard of Nintendo's Super Smash Brothers series, 
 you probably need to leave your house right NOW. I would like to start this planned weekly series 
 of reviews by explaining what exactly I am going to do. I am going to review every game I own now 
 or that I have owned/rented recently enough to remember the game more than just, "oh, so I press 
 that button to shoot". 
  
  Rating scale: worst to best
  AAARGH
  F
  D
  C
  B
  A
  YESSS!
  
  Randomduded12 Review #1- Super Smash Brothers 
  If you own a Nintendo Wii, 
 you have no doubt been bugged by your friends or neighborhood kids to purchase this game. Super 
 Smash Brothers is like a religion to some Nintendo fan boys, but to me it is more or less the most 
 casual, yet hardcore fighting game I own. This game revolves around timing, you need to pick attacks 
 that will hit your enemy, but also give you enough time to evade if necessary. There are 4 control 
 modes, but to be honest only three options work really well: the GameCube controller, Classic, 
 and nunchuk wiimote combo. All the controller types can be used throughout the whole experience 
 that is Smash Bros. (keep in mind though how much money could be saved from not using batteries 
 with your gaming experience, so play with the optimal controller: the Gamecube controller!) 
  
  Generic List Time!!1 (IMPROPER GRAMMAR error: Does Not Compute (infinite loop time!!) ) : 
 
  Characters: 35
  Stages: 41 + user created stages
  Stickers: 700
  Trophies: 544
  
  
  Modes: Solo (can also be co op) consists of Stadium minigames (home run contest, target test-5 
 difficulties, boss battles, multi man brawl) , Subspace Emissary, Collection options- stickers, 
 trophies, coin launcher, Masterpieces ( (Note, my friend and I came up with an idea similar to 
 this to be included with Brawl, but it didn't suck. It was essentially a collection of Brawl and 
 a full background game from each character (ex. Mario- Super Mario world) , but it would have cost 
 far more. epic sad ) a poorly thought out idea where they think 40 seconds of Donkey Kong will 
 cause you to salivate all over yourself and purchase a copy from the virtual console. Nintendo 
 you are officially comprised of rtards) , Brawl, Online, Options, and blah blah blah. If you want 
 to see the rest, go look at them yourselves, you lazy bastards.
  
  The main game is called the Subspace Emissary and revolves around an extremely farfetched plot 
 that includes probably the greatest amalgamation of Nintendo characters excluding fan boy rpgs. 
 The main story lasts around 10 hours if you just want to beat it and get all the various characters, 
 but for the hardcore gamers, there are secrets placed throughout every level of the game. The secrets 
 vary from trophies, stickers, new characters, or just another crown meaning you got a little closer 
 to 100% completion. Some new additions are bosses (other than master Hand or Crazy Hand) , so this 
 is a new feature to the franchise. The are well designed, fun to fight, have a set pattern, and 
 just in general great. BTW, they also drop stickers or a trophy every time ou kill them, so they 
 are an easy source for collection. ( the controls work well, but at the same time do not. It doesn't 
 pretend to be a Mario platforming game, but it wants to play like one just with extra fighting 
 tacked on. This kind of weakens the story mode for me, but the controls do work) The story proceeds 
 along pretty well, until you get to about the last 4 levels. These last 4 levels rank among the 
 worst things Smash Bros has ever done to me. They make you essentially play through the whole goddamn 
 game again. Another thing the game did that bugged me, was take away any items I was carrying when 
 I entered a door to another section of a level in the Subspace Emissary. I worked hard to get that 
 silly little trophy stand, but you are going to just take it away? WTH Nintendo, is it really that 
 hard to allow a player to keep their items? The answer, no, Nintendo was just being lazy as hell. 
 Other than this serious blight on the fun factor for adventure mode, the story serves its purpose, 
 never exceeding expectations except for the quality of the cinematics, but never getting in the 
 way either. Don't expect much dialogue (think Zelda without text) . Some cool character and enemy 
 designs remind me vaguely of Kingdom Hearts's heartless, but they are pretty standard enemies with 
 little distinguishing them from other game minions (one weird extra Sora threw in was the enemies 
 will have different facial expressiosn every time you turn your Wii on, so see if you can spot 
 them all!) . The story is enjoyable the first or maybe even second run through if you care to serve 
 as Nintendo's whore just to get a few unecessary alternate cinematics, more stickers/trophies, 
 or just to use your fan boy mouth to please your overlord. I give the story mode and the returning 
 extra single player/co op player features such as home run contest or target smash and the new 
 Boss Battles mode a B- because frankly they just don't retain any sense of fun for me after the 
 first run through and making me play the game twice just to beat it once is a douche move Nintendo. 
 The same applies to the minigames, they last for a while, but eventually most people will abandon 
 it in favor of brawling. (there are people who will dedicate themselves to mastering this mode 
 and it is an interesting skill based platform, but the five levels are the same for every character, 
 so technically the last two Smash Bros. games had more unique stages. Each character had their 
 own set up and best strategy, but Nintendo decided to cut corners here and standardize the levels.) 
 But to collect everything you have to go through with every character in each mode. Nintendo's 
 new slogan- Wii are douchtastic! I only went through trying to get more stickers/trophies because 
 yes, I am a collector (no, I was not going to say Nintendo's whore because if anything, I am the 
 overlord not Nintendo) . 
  
  The extras within Brawl can take freaking forever to unlock, so do not expect immediate completion 
 of the game. This is my most played game on the Wii with around 250 hours put in on online matches, 
 local matches, and story mode, but I am still missing some of the collection. However, Nintendo 
 did include a couple ways to help you, namely golden hammers and coins. You can use hammers to 
 unlock tricky challenges like collect all freaking 700 stickers (please note that Nintendo in their 
 omniscience decided to prevent certain challenges from unlocking with hammers for example Intense 
 boss Battles. Nice going Nintendo, making a perfectly good compromise between hardcore and beginning 
 gamers as useless as **** on a boar hog (lol CaptainKirk) I managed to beat this because I rock, 
 but the majority of my friends who play the game cannot. They want to complete the game too, you 
 self-***ing conglomerate that need to take its head out of its ***. ) . In addition, you can use 
 coins to earn new trophies and stickers for yourself in the revamped coin launcher. The original 
 coin game involved simply putting a coin into a virtual trophy dispenser that would release new 
 trophies based on probability determined by how much money you put into the machine. The new one 
 allows the player to aim at whatever they want, but also puts the probability at freaking way too 
 low, and leaves the player in a quasi arcade style shooter. While this is indeed more fun, the 
 experience quickly becomes more monotonous than previous incarnations because of the extended periods 
 necessary to earn all the trophies and stickers. I have literally gone through thousands of coins 
 trying to find one new trophy or sticker, but when I left the game all I received were another 
 freaking 100 duplicates to trophies and stickers I already had. Same with the possible exploit, 
 where you design a stage to get extra stickers and trophies. I have played battles on those levels 
 for 1 hour just to get stickers, but all I got were repeats. This is a problem Nintendo, FIX. Collection 
 elements get an AAARGH to an A ( this depends on the reader and you do not have to pursue completion 
 of everything to enjoy this game, so try them, but remember I warned you) . In my opinion, they 
 were exceedingly annoying or boring, so only invest time in this if you are willing to deal with 
 the bugs that Nintendo has left in.
  
  Speaking of unnecessary stuff Sora put in, who honestly cares about half of the characters that 
 they added to the roster? I personally do not, because I would rather have had a character creation 
 system that would allow me to create any obscure character I wanted from Pac Man to Master chief 
 or even just a better stage designer. Now, understand this, I am not bashing new characters, but 
 I would prefer characters I am actually interested in instead of ROB, Pit, or a *changed* Ganondorf 
 that still leaves his sword behind *coughs obscenely loud- rtard*. I typically pick characters 
 whose games I have played, so people like Marth, Mario, Link, Fox, Kirby 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiiwillrocku360
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  When I heard of this game, I didn't own a Smash Bros. game so I thought nothing of it, then I heard 
 Sonic might be in it so I was a little excited and got Super Smash Bros. Melee and then I was TOTALLY 
 excited! I almost didn't care if Sonic was gonna be in it (when I found out that he was definitely 
 going to be in it, I screamed and jumped around my house) . So after a series of struggling delays 
 and waiting, I got the game the day it came out. It was everything I expected yet nothing I expected. 
 The controls are smooth and easy to handle, the character roster is larger than I expected, 35 
 characters!!! And 41 stages!!!!! If you're afraid of how difficult it is to unlock all the characters, 
 no need to worry, the story mode Subspace Emissary makes it easy for you to unlock characters, 
 just play through the whole story and go back a few levels and you'll unlock all the characters. 
 Don't like the stages? Just build your own stages using stage creator. Wanna play classics? Go 
 to the classics section to play demos of classic games like F-Zero, Super Mario Bros. or Ice Climber. 
 You will want this game if you like Nintendo or are a die hard Smash Fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oblivionownn
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  The greatest game ever. Excellent music, probably the most responsive controls in video game history.
 
  
  
  The developers outdid themselves this time.
  This is far better then Melee.
  
  An unthinkable amount of characters, all with unique movements, attacks and combos. For example 
 Mario has an attack where he shoots fireballs out from his finger and then falls to the ground, 
 while Luigi has the same move, his fireballs are green, and shoot forward instead of down.
  
  The adventure mode is another great addition to this masterpiece. A crazy amount of CG movie 
 sequences. Very long and fun game play, it will take about 20+ hours to finish it.
  
  Returning features including, Classic mode, Event mode and target/home run contest.
  
  Over 
 30 stages are packed into the disk, making the replay value longer then any game ever made.
  
  There is only one flaw. The Nintendo Wi Fi Connection 
  has some issues. The options to play 
 anyone takes a while to set up a match, which can be very annoying.
  And the server has a lot of lag, making lengthy brawls.
  But if you register friend codes with 
 people close to you're region you shouldn't have any problems.
  
  
  Greatest game ever made. 10 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: david1233
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 9:31 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl is simply the best game available for the wii. It features all of Nintendo's 
 main characters along with an excellent single player campaign and fantastic multiplayer-online 
 and offline.
  The best part of this game is by far the amazing multiplayer.
  You can play it with your mates in the offline in four player brawl mode. The game is definitely 
 best when playing with your mates and one of the best bits is the online mode.
  In online, you can play against mates or anyone from around the world. There are two modes to choose 
 from when in online, normal Brawl or Team Brawl.
  In normal brawl you go one on one with another player and in Team Brawl you team up with another 
 player to face two other players in a four-player mode.
  And last but not least is the magnificent, Subspace Emissary single player campaign mode. 
  It's 
 a lot like one of the old Mario games but with every Nintendo character and fighting elements.
 
  The Subspace Emissary will last you six or seven hours to complete but if you want to get every 
 character, arena, trophy and sticker it could take you up to seventeen hours.
  Overall Smash Bros is the best game on the wii and if you have a wii this is an absolute must-buy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JAK3434
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  This is truely an exalent game. I like it how it is such an old school game but yet it is so so 
 good. Even thou I gave this a 10 there is still lots of inprovment that could have been done, like 
 the adventor mode, that could have been longer and made you face not as many stamina enimys and 
 more charitor enimys. The charictors were difinitaly beter like there was only 1 copy charictor 
 (young link) but the charicors were a lot beter then melee but I still think they should have added 
 more charictors, like charictors that were not nintendo (but im glad they put nintedo charictors 
 in) . The stages, they were not as good as the melee stages its a good thing they put some melee 
 stages. The custom stages were very good but they could have made that better as in putting parts 
 from different stages in and stage hazards. So this game was really the best nintendo game ever!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king23_
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2009 11:55 am PT
Review:  9 years ago Super Smash Bros was released. Now in 2008, the series has returned under the title 
 Super Smash Bros Brawl, and it has been one of the most highly anticipated Wii games. 
  
  For those of you unfamiliar with the Super Smash Bros series, it's a fighting game. Unlike most 
 fighting games that use depleting HP bars, in order to win you try to build up your opponents percentage 
 by performing various attack moves, and then you win by knocking them off of the stage. The higher 
 the percentage, the more likely they are to be knocked off the stage. There are many items you 
 can pick up while fighting to help you defeat your opponent. If you played Melee the gameplay will 
 feel very similar. It's very simple and straight forward, but there's a lot of depth in SSBB. While 
 the gameplay is great, I'll admit it can get a little boring if you play it excessively.
  
  The controls for SSBB are excellent. You can play with a Wiimote and Nunchuck, just a Wiimote, 
 Gamecube controller, or a cIassic controller. You can also assign any move to any button, so you 
 are sure to find a control scheme that works for you. For better or for worse, the Wii's motion 
 sensing is hardly used at all. The only time it's used is if you decide to turn it on to use as 
 your Smash Attack. The reason I say the minimal use of motion sensing could have been good is because 
 it might have came off as gimicky and hurt the experience a little bit.
  
  There are numorous gameplay modes to choose from in Brawl. There are the standard VS. matches, 
 CIassic mode which lets you work your way up stages with a character, Subspace Emissary, and many 
 other mini game type challanges to mess around with. There are a lot of things to do in Brawl, 
 so it should take a while before you get bored.
  
  Subspace Emissary is really a whole new game seperate from the rest of Brawl. Subspace Emissary 
 is a side scrolling game which lets you play as all the different characters in the game through 
 many different levels. While this sounds like a really cool idea, it comes off as feeling very 
 repetitive and tacked on. There's a few levels that are fun, but most of them are just the same 
 old boring thing over and over again. It'll only take about 8-10 hours to get through Subspace 
 Emissary, and while that doesn't sound like a whole lot, I found myself wishing it was shorter 
 because I couldn't force myself to keep playing. The upside to Subspace Emissary is that the presentation 
 is amazing. The story is told through absolutley beautiful cutscenes which come close to being 
 as good as something you'd find on the PS3 or 360. I'm glad they decided to add the Subspace Emisarry, 
 but definitley don't buy Brawl just for this mode. 
  
  Single player is good and fun, but you'll find Brawl most enjoyable with friends. The game is just 
 a lot more fun if you've got some friends over to play with you. Even if you don't have any friends 
 over, you can now play online with Wi-Fi. Playing online is good for the most part. There is hardly 
 any lag and matches are relatively easy to find. The downside is friend codes just make the experience 
 not quite as good. My other complaint with online is that there's no leader boards or anything 
 like that.
  
  There are 35 characters featured in Brawl with the likes of Mario, Link, Solid Snake, Samus, Sonic, 
 and Fox just to name a few. The character roster is terrific, and for the most part the characters 
 are well balanced. There are also over 40 stages in Brawl. All of the stages are inspired by the 
 games of the characters in Brawl, and a lot of them are very fun.
  
  The soundtrack in Brawl is simply one of the best I've ever heard in a game. There's tons of great 
 songs from the games of the characters in Brawl, and also many great songs made exclusively for 
 Brawl. 
  
  As far as graphics go, Brawl looks great. It shows some of the best graphics the Wii has to offer 
 so far. The character models and stages look great, the animations are fluid, and the cutscenes 
 of Subspace Emissary are gorgeous. 
  
  Super Smash Bros Brawl is a great game that is sure to keep you busy for a long time to come.
 
  
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 10
  Value: 9
  Tilt: 9
  Overall: 9.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiirkokonuts
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Brothers Brawl (SSBB) is truly an amazing game. But there also several things holding 
 it back from being perfect.
  
  Gameplay: Awesome, or this game would be horrible if it wasn't. The mixed it up a little bit by 
 adding new items. The most notable is Final Smash, your character's super move, like Pikachu's 
 Volt Tackle. My problem, is that they didn't innovate, and make like a control, to where you punch 
 by thrusting the nuchuck forward, or the Wii remote, instead of the same old button smashing. At 
 least that still is fun.
  
  Graphics: Great, especially since its on the Wii. Not much more to say except for that.
  
  The 
 Rest: Lets start with multiplayer. I think they didn't think it through well enough. There was so 
 much potential, but it was wasted. Stage creator is awesome, but what they should of done is let 
 us create our own blocks, instead of just a set of basic ones, such as in Spore. Music, so much 
 I can't even count how much there is. And the music is pretty good too. Brings in practically everyone's 
 favorite Nintendo songs. Adventure was boring, why was it added?
  
  Conclusion: SSBB is the best in the series. Selection of characters was great, regular VS. play 
 is awesome, etc. But there were so many things holding it back. If you have brothers and sisters, 
 friends, anyone that will play SSBB, you should get it. Best played with friends. If not, only 
 veterans of Super Smash Bros. should get it. Otherwise, its truly outstanding. Can't wait for the 
 next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metallica4mayor
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2008 9:03 pm PT
Review:  ssbb is unarguably the best super smash bros in the series. The game is the ultimate for the wii. the 
 game has intense 4 player gameplay, has a difficulty selection for if your a noob or a veteran, 
 and only has ONE flaw to itself. the one flaw is... yep you guessed it the subspace emissary. now 
 the adventure mode for melee was epic because nothing like that has happened beforethat also applys 
 to brawl but after you play the emissary youll wish you didnt. the gameplay for it gets really repetitve 
 and boring after a few minutes. it would have fitt in perfect for a MEDIOCRE fighting game, but ssbb 
 isnt mediocre its an awesome game. also the emissary makes unlocking all the characters way too 
 easy. remeber how it took about a month to unlock the hidden characters in melee? yeah well in brawl 
 its gonna take you about 2 days at most to unlock all the hidden characters if you just keep playing 
 emissary, so in overall brawl is definitly worth the price, and with only with only one flaw brawl 
 brawl smashes 9 smash balls out of ten... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OICWUTUDIDTHAR
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 2:20 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl has been one of the most hyped games I've seen this year, and it's surely 
 the most popular Wii game to come out yet. Does it live up to the hype? Well.. For the most part 
 it does, but you can't help but feel like they could have done a bit more.
  
  The game has hardly changed from Melee in the gameplay department. It's still the same old try 
 to knock out your opponent by knocking him off the screen. And it's still fun, didn't expect that 
 to change. Although I do wish they just could have changed some of the feel of the game. Like from 
 SSB64 - SSBM. It felt extremely different for whatever reason, but still really satisfying. So 
 as much as I hate to sound like a whiner, if you've already played Melee a to death, don't expect 
 to be entertained for much longer in Brawl, but just like Melee, the solid gameplay and the characters 
 themselves, will keep you coming back every now and then, especially if you have friends over. 
 Yes, the game is only SLIGHTLY slower paced than melee but it has added a few extra moves and quirks 
 to replace that, just like Melee did coming from SSB64. If you haven't played melee to death or 
 at all, well, that's another story, you'll be hooked for months, maybe even years.
  
  The character roster is bigger than ever, SSB64 had 12 characters, Melee had 25, Brawl has a whopping 
 35 characters. Although some of em are "Clones" of each other, (Fox and Falco, Lucas and Ness) 
 for the most part the characters are unique in their own way. I keep hearing people saying the 
 roster is unbalanced, which is sort of true (Metaknight, Snake) . But.. If you play online, you'll 
 fight Metaknight so much that you'll know how to dodge his overly used attacks by second nature (Yeah, 
 it's possible) , Or if you play in tourneys a lot. So really in the end the roster is actually pretty 
 balanced. Takes more skill than stats of course.
  
  The graphics... don't look much better than before. But that's not saying much, cause it still 
 looks great, Melee had some impressive graphics on the Gamecube back in 2001, and now Brawl on 
 the Wii, while not showing the Wii's full potential, still looks notably better.
  
  There are way more stages here in Brawl than in Melee, they look crisp and clean and all give a 
 different feel from the last, they do an extremely good job giving the feeling of the characters' 
 game aswell. Now you can create your own stages or share them online too, although not as deep 
 as I hoped it would be, it's still an accomplishment, and simply fun to edit.
  
  The biggest most noticeable change in the subspace emissionary. It's the replacement for the adventure 
 mode that was in Melee. This one is more like a story mode. Inbetween stages and fights are really 
 great looking cutscenes, although there is no dialogue, I really wasn't expecting any. The stages 
 are basicly like the platforming stages in Melee, while fighting a bunch of minor enemies in your 
 way, only in Brawl some of these stages require a little more puzzle solving to figure out how 
 to progress, although they aren't very complicated at all, it's still nice to see they vamped up 
 the difficulty a bit, also if you complete this mode, you pretty much have unlocked every character 
 along the way by simply meeting them. A great addition to the game to replace adventure mode, although 
 some of the platforming stages feel forced and it is a bit too long, but it's still fun.
  
  Probably my favorite part of the game, is the music. It's all great to listen to, and fit their 
 stages (usually) . Feels like a much greater improvement over Melee although Melee had great music 
 too, this one blows it away. My personal favorite being the new Final Destination theme. There's 
 also the fact that there is just way more music in this game than before, about 300 tracks, about 
 220 of them need to be unlocked whether random CD drops in a fight or having to do something more.
 
  
  Now let's talk about the multi-player factor of this game. Super Smash Bros. is all about this, 
 it's still the strongest point. Four players brawling at the same time and just making absolute 
 chaos is still a blast, especially with some of the new stages and characters. But if you have 
 no one to play with or are just dead bored, you can also play online now. Although you can only 
 do 2 minute brawls if you're playing with random people and not your friends, but if you're playing 
 with friends online, you can set up the rules as you please, so it's still another accomplishment. 
 You still have your stock, timed, and coin matches, no more bonus matches though, not like anyone 
 really did those. They have added a few items like the assist trophy, it's like the poke'ball only 
 instead of a pokemon, you get a character from another series to help you (Shadow the hedgehog, 
 Waluigi, Hammer bro. ect) , but pokeballs are still in the game too. One of the biggest gameplay 
 differences in fights is the Smash Ball. It's an item that appears from no where and floats around, 
 you basicly have to destroy it to receive it's power, whoever is the last person to hit it before 
 it's destroyed gets it, and once you do, you simply press the B button without holding the stick 
 in any direction, and you'll do your characters' "Final Smash". It's an over the top attack that 
 damages your opponent or simply knocks them out. Some avoidable, some aren't. It seems Sonic's 
 Final smash is WAY over powered though. Although you can turn off the Smash Ball in the Item Switch. 
 Another addition to add on to having more than one player, is that the Subspace mode also is two 
 player, which is great because sometimes in some stages going alone can be boring when playing 
 in it for so long.
  
  You can still collect trophies in this game, as well as unlock extra assist trophies which is pretty 
 cool although there aren't too many of those to collect, the more difficult achievements to obtain 
 are the trophies, music and stages, and they'll take a good while to get. So yeah, there's plenty 
 of extra goals for you to reach while just brawling that'll take quite a bit to get, although even 
 when you get them all, Brawling is still fun just cause of the gameplay.
  
  So overall, despite some of my complaints, Brawl is still a solid game on most fronts. And the 
 must have for Multi-player action on the Wii. It's not revolutionary, or as perfect as Super Mario 
 Galaxy, but this multi-player fighter is obviously not trying to be perfect, it's trying to bring 
 value and fun, and there it succeeds in great form. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RingCollector
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is more for newcommers then hardcore fans of the smash bros series. They took out many 
 of the tricks such as wavedashing.
  
  WARNING this review has spoilers.
  
  Characters: 
  Good: Only unimportent characters were ditched, a few new cool characters were 
 added, 2 non nintendo characters were added (sonic, snake) .
  Bad: 2 stupid characters were added wolf and toon link (also they are clones wich makes it even 
 worse) . Also MegaMan wasn't added.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are great and one of the best on the Wii. Especialy the cutscenes in the 
 stoy mode. They are just amazing.
  
  Sound/Music: The sound effects are fitting and this games soundtrack is AWSOME. With almost 300 
 songs from tons of different games.
  
  Stages: Some new good ones and bad ones. But the best part is that you can build your own stages 
 and choose a song to give it. Although they could have added more parts because thier wasn't to 
 many parts to choose from. Also they decided to keep a few melee stages.
  
  Gameplay: Basicily its a fighting game for up to 4 players. There is over 30 characters and 40 
 stages to choose from. Also with tons of new items. The best new item is the smash ball that gives 
 each character a crazy stong special attack. You can do coin matches, tourneys, all star mode, 
 classic mode, boss mode, story mode and many more. I do have one thing to say about story mode 
 and that is the gameplay sucked.
  
  Online: Its pretty cool how they added online mode. The only problem is that it sometimes can be 
 very slow. But I guess slow online is better then no online. 
  
  Also from what ive heared they took many of the techniques (wavedashing) out so hardcore players 
 wouldn't win all the time online. Still I wish they made it so there was rule that could turn those 
 skills on and of.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: redsnake28
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best one i have played in years! what makes it so good? first of all it has a 
 huge cast of characters, even snake and sonic! also, there are many stages, a masterful soundtrack, 
 and a moderately good story mode with cool cutscenes. If that isn't enough for you, you can also 
 create your own stage, it has online play, and you can even use an ultimate move by collecting 
 a smash ball and unleashing a powerful Final Smash!!!
  there are only a couple problems with this game. the stages and characters are to easy to unlock,. 
 some the trophies are impossible to get, there's no voices in the story mode cutscenes so half 
 of the time you don't know what is going on. plus, you cannot be cloud or roxas or sora that is 
 so terrible. many kingdom hearts and ff fans must have been so disappointed by that. Nonetheless, 
 you people should go buy a wii and get super smash bros. brawl  
 RODGER 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersmashgamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 6:54 am PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing, the best in it's series and one of the best graphics on the Wii. Has 
 well balanced characters and animations are smooth. The greatest addition would be the final smash 
 ball, as it can change the tide of battle if used correctly. Stages range from new to retro and 
 some melee stages have been brought back. The new Stage Builder is a great way to take a break from 
 all the fighting and make your very own stage. Online mode is not perfect due to the large amount 
 of lag, but registering a friend will cut most of the lag out. The Subspace Emissary was better than 
 melee's adventure mode, but as the game progresses it loses it's luster from repetitive enemies 
 and stages. The boss battles are awesome addition to the game and very challenging for most players 
 if set on a high enough difficulty. The game could use more polish and definitely a better online, 
 but with a game that has so much unlockables, this game will keep the fans of the series months 
 and months of playing just to get it all. Who knows? Maybe the game will keep you busy for years 
 just like melee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TeabagChampion
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2008 1:22 am PT
Review:  Since first gen with Nintendo, until now, I've played a lot of different types of fighting games 
 with different types of game play options. This is by far the best 2D, 4 player fighting game in 
 its class hands down. The game offers so much, with so many different supers, and specials. The 
 levels can be from small to large and you even have the option to make your own levels as well. 
 You also have a large option of characters that you can chose from. From the older super smash 
 bros. collection to the newer ones that have just joined the fight. A lot of the newer characters 
 are some what like some of the older characters with almost the same moves but not quit. You can 
 also change the colors of the selected characters, and if you are playing against the computer, 
 you can change the difficulty settings for each indivisual characters. So get ready to have a few 
 friends over and smash buttons because this is a game that you wont want to put down. Warning, 
 this game can become very addicting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somgu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 11:56 pm PT
Review:  Best game that's was worth 2 years of waiting.
  When I got this game and played it I was like OMG this is so AWESOME!!!
  
  good things:
  
 - up to 35 playable characters including Solid Snake and Sonic the hedgehog
  - up to 41 stages
  - can make your own custom stages
  - wifi is included vs any one in the 
 world
  - use 4 different controllers
  - especially fun when playing with friends
  - new story mode is included
  - new kick ass items like smash ball unleashes a characters final 
 smash
  
  bad things:
  - depending on your internet connection wifi can be really laggy or disconected
  - custom stages 
 can't be used on wifi
  - people can be really cheap on wifi
  - you can only vs random people on wifi besides friends
  - characters you would want to be in 
 this game would not -.-
  - story mode is a little disappointing be not much
  - no voice chat only messages when taunting
  - vs mode options cant can't be played on wifi
 
  - no way to see who's the best player or tournaments on wifi
  
  On top of that it's worth your time. So if you like 3D fighters up to 4 players and beating the 
 crap out of your friends with your favorite nintendo characters (plus Solid Snake and Sonic) then 
 this is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoofproduction
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  After such a long wait, it's here. Super Smash Bros. Brawl has arrived. The great, Nintendo style 
 fighting has still got it, with an amazing amount of well selected characters, well designed stages, 
 tons of modes both single and multiplayer, and great, fairly solid online play, and you've got 
 the fighting game of the year. Plus all of the great trophies, stickers, and even an all new stage 
 builder can keep you busy. However, there are a couple of times, when the game falls short. The 
 Subspace was a bit of a disappointment, with areas that just fealt like the controls just weren't 
 designed for it. And the story was sort of hard to follow at times. And sometimes the online gets 
 locked so bad it's nearly impossible to play. However, it does make up for it in just good old 
 four player Brawl. With so many items, stages that work great with the controls and game play, 
 and characters that are some of your favorite of Nintendo history, and it's hard to put the controller 
 down. The clever fighting style is back, but you might want to stick to the Gamecube controllers. 
 The new Wii controllers can be frustrating at times, with the right buttons in the wrong places. 
 But don't let that discourage you. This is a game worth buying, not for single player entireley, 
 but for the rock solid four player Brawling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamemanyeah
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2008 10:41 pm PT
Review:  We all knew it was coming. Our cousins across the globe had already told us what it was like. Now 
 the Europeans get the Brawl experience. And it was well worth the wait. I had to do a lot of things 
 for this Brawl review, namely waiting a couple of days for the 'holy freaking pancakes, Brawl is 
 awesome!' factor to wear off so I could take a decent look at the game. I also had to resist the 
 urge to play every time I mentioned a great element, otherwise the review would never be finished. 
 Was it necessary to unlock all the characters in one go? Or was it necessary to play it for 13 
 hours straight (with 2 bathroom breaks of course) ? You tell me. I did it anyway because Brawl is 
 just that good. The single most important thing to assess about Brawl has to be how well it plays, 
 how well the combatants move and strike. If Brawl were a car, it'd handle like a dream. Each character 
 moves just as they should, some feel heavy and slow, others glide and jump around. They're as powerful 
 and fight as you'd imagine. It all makes sense, and feels right. The Smash Bros series has always 
 been famous for its all-star rosters, so much so that there is a game mode named 'All-Star'. It's 
 the gaming equivalent of the Oscars. And I'm not talking C-list celebrities. Certainly not the 
 ones who were on Big Brother once, had the personality of a door knob then milked it for every 
 last penny. Brawl has the Will Smiths, the Michael Caines and the Mariah Careys. The talented, 
 popular ones that you actually care about. For this latest instalment, the big news is the inclusion 
 of non-Nintendo characters, Snake (of Metal Gear Solid) and Sonic (from Sonic the Hedgehog) . Other 
 welcome additions include the infamous Wario fresh from his WarioWare outings, and Captain Olimar 
 of Pikmin fame. Also, the roll call has been given a serious kick in a better direction. In the 
 previous game, Melee, it was loaded with 'clone characters' that were basically copies of other 
 characters with near-identical move sets. This made the roster seem larger than it really was. 
 This time around, HAL have made the selection of characters far more unique and varied than any 
 other fighter out there. Characters that were previously clones now have a lot more individual 
 characteristics to make them worth using, and the new additions have great styles that take Brawl's 
 depth one step further. You'll soon learn that Brawl doesn't do things in half measures. It doesn't 
 like just having one or two of something. That isn't Brawl's way. Brawl likes the number 'squillion'. 
 It is no longer a number used by children in the playground. Brawl put an end to that. Brawl has 
 a squillion characters, a squillion modes and a squillion unlockables. The reason I felt the need 
 for this description is to help you comprehend just how much there is to be found in this game. 
 I actually tried counting how many trophies, stickers, stages and songs there were to be unlocked, 
 in addition to the ones you start off with. In doing so I nearly died. So, for safety's sake, I'm 
 going to make an educated guess of a metric squillion. And each one of these is a nugget of gaming 
 history to savour. You'd be hard pressed to find a game worth mentioning from Nintendo's expansive 
 history that's been missed. It's like a photo album of nostalgia, loaded with a description of 
 each trophy for those unfamiliar with that historic artefact. Game modes are in plentiful supply. 
 Aside from the aforementioned All-Star mode, there are 5 other single player modes, Classic being 
 the simplest of these. Fight through 12 stages, arcade style. It's the very heart of Brawl, a raw 
 experience interspersed with special stages. The Adventure mode has become much meatier, now going 
 by the name 'The Subspace Emissary'. RPG elements have been added, such as the stickers, which 
 you can apply to characters to give them special attributes and you get to pick which members of 
 your team you want to play with. The levels themselves are in the style of a side-scrolling platformer, 
 their design relatively bog-standard, but with some quite brilliant set pieces and boss battles, 
 supplemented by a good variety of enemies. The Subspace Emissary plot is not central to the overall 
 game but does a good job of loosely bringing together all of the characters without being overly 
 complicated and confusing. The highlight is undoubtedly the brief but wonderfully rendered cut 
 scenes that appear after each level. There are other game modes too, some full games in their own 
 right, all combining to add considerably to Brawl's already impressive lifespan. The Stage Builder 
 deserves a special mention as it enables you to create your own multiplayer levels. It's rather 
 basic in terms of visual customisation but structurally you can re-create most ideas from your 
 imagination, adding yet another bag of hours to the pile of lifespan. Eventually, we get to the 
 multiplayer. Readers familiar with Smash Bros will understand if I take a little pause to prepare 
 myself for this. The multiplayer aspect of Brawl is what it's all about. The sheer fun of beating 
 each other senseless is brilliantly captured in gaming form. And you save money on hospital visits. 
 Almost every single thing you can do solo, you can do in co-op with a friend. That includes the 
 Adventure mode as well as the always fun Multi-man brawls and the Home run contest. If you're looking 
 for any kind of offline multiplayer experience, Brawl has something for you. Even if you have a 
 lack of friends, Brawl likes you. If you're feeling glum because you can't fill all 4 player slots 
 for multiplayer matches, you can easily add in CPU opponents. There are plenty of difficulty settings 
 for you to set these bots at, ranging from walk in the park to devilishly fiendish. These keep 
 the game fresh as you can always set up challenging scenarios for yourself. There's also a full 
 online mode offering versus and team battle, complete with a waiting area for you to practice against 
 the training bag while you are allocated opponents. The online performance doesn't match up to 
 the sublime in-game implementation of Mario Kart as it can be sensitive to lag, so ensure your 
 connection is otherwise unused and fingers crossed your opponents will have equally good connections. 
 If conditions are on your side there's a lot of fun to be had. Brawl also utilises the internet 
 in other ways. You can swap screenshots, replays and even your own stage creations with friends, 
 as well as receiving some stages and replays from Nintendo from across the globe. When you get 
 into the match, there's far more options than just your own attacks. The stage is gradually peppered 
 with a vast array of items to be used. From health pickups, to baseball bats and Smash-making weapons 
 like the Final Smash ball. This unleashes your character's Final Smash move, and while this may 
 seem like a game breaking addition at first, it becomes clear that they are not always simple to 
 use. The chase for these can put a spark into any fight no matter what's going on. Assist Trophies 
 are another new addition, basically acting like the pokeballs, unleashing a random character from 
 a hoarde of games to help you take down your foes. Again, these are very sought after and fuel 
 the energy levels. Brawl manages to appeal to and be approachable for all varieties of gamer, a 
 rare trait which is ideal for this big Wii title. Four different control options as well as an 
 as-deep-as-you-want-it combat style mean that whether you're a parent looking forward to seeing 
 Mario and Sonic have a punch-up, or a Nintendo fan wanting the Nintendo Chronicle (of love) , Brawl 
 can offer you an outstanding game. Gather your friends, this is the perfect multiplayer experience.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bogoni
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever had the desire of punching your closest friend, but you won't because he's yer friend? 
 This is yer chance.
  
  OK, you can get very mad when you lose to people who are losers, or to people who are superb in this 
 game. The losers often use the same attack over and over.. And yo cang et very very mad. In th other 
 hand, people who play too much SSBBrawl, will not let you move. Literally.
  
  Adventure mode, The Subspace Emissary is great, really. But it is more difficult than normal Brawls, but 
 is still really cool, and a challenge in Extreme mode. The only problem is that the WFC sucks. We 
 have lags sometimes, it takes too long too connect usually and we often have a Connection Error, but 
 nothing we can't handle.
  
  In this game all characters got a new look, if they haven't changed the clothes, they'll look... renewed. There 
 are many characters for you to choose, but I'll recommend some characters for beginners and for 
 more experienced characters.
  
  Beginners:  Trainer.
  
  Others:  
 Falcon, Jigglypuff.
  
  So, that's it my good folks, hope you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lotrman2
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  I bought this game with large expectations as I loved meelee but for me it was quite a large letdown, 
 although t was fun for a few days and sometimes with freinds it is really easy to get bored of 
 since there is alot to do but it is near impossible to do some things although the gameplay is 
 really easy against A. I. or with a freind because you really need to get used to it as the controls 
 with or without the numchuck are really hard to get used to so I always win against freinds without 
 a WII which gets boring really fast. The music is pretty bad, yes, there are over 250 songs but 
 they all are childish and stupid, its not real music, its just the same g @ y repetitive music 
 although the metal gear solid songs on it are good but there aren't many of them. The suspace emissary 
 was a bad idea, it gets really boring after the third level with a terrible story, the characetsr 
 dont even talk on it which is stupid. Trophys and stickers seem pointless to collect, they dont 
 do anything. The level creater is very simple and plain, theres not much to do to the levels at 
 all and there all tiny. This is just so over-hyped and a big let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerTron0
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 20, 2008 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl, form all the delays i think it should have been called "Super Smash Bros. 
 Forever".
  But from all the hype around it came out a few months ago and now i'll review it. Like many games 
 Nintendo has decided to use the "now loading" engine for when ever it loads, their long and should'nt 
 be like that.
  The story mode in SSBB is lame irritatingly long and has the lamest story ever! The classic mode 
 is back and a few others, you will be given a list of characters depending if you completed the 
 story mode. Gameplay is right where it should be for SSBB, it's fun and you will come back to it 
 even if you don't know why, most games don't really succeed at this. 3 big problems in SSBB is 
 the online play is horrible and it will take a long time to connect. 2nd, clone characters it's 
 just a cheap way to add the character in. 3rd, this is a party game not a single player experince, 
 by-yourself can be very boring. Finally 4th, fight rules are not how a FIGHTING GAME should be. 
 It's like this when playing a fighting game you and your ememy have a life bar, if you or your 
 ememy get attacked it go's down. When theres nothing left in the bar you lose.
  It's not you and your ememy have a percent gage, the more you hit him (or her) the more the percent 
 go's up so you will have better chance of falling off the stage. Overall SSBB is a great party 
 game to play with friends and family, but with clones, bad online, non-proper fighting game rules 
 and not fun being fun to play alone.
  
  Story: 3.1
  Gameplay: 7.6
  Graphics: 8.1
  Re-play Value: 9.0
  Online-Play: 4.7
  Overall: 6.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmaan7000
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  This is like one of the best games in Nintendo EVER. Its so freaking addictive. Ive read most of 
 the ratings and reviews and none of them were bad. This deserves to have a rating 10. The characters 
 are looking better and two more great characters Snake and Sonic. The final smash thing is the most 
 awesome and the strongest attack a character can have. The adventure game is excellent and the cut 
 scenes are cool. The enemies are cool and fun to fight. The stages are the best. The WI-FI is good 
 too. A new thing they put is stickers to go with the trophies. Also a new thing is stage builder. 
 It lets you make your own stage. Also you can take pictures while battling. The whole game is worth 
 buying. If your a big Nintendo fan you should buy it. bdhbd hbfhbdh debhhh hhhhhj bchjsbfbd hbhsdbdn, 
 sndcvh devbfhe hbdhsb dhbsn hbenh behdgbh - ignore the letter sentence 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ganon4Prez
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best the Wii has to offer up to date. I know the graphics aren't HD, but after 
 you dive in2 the gameplay of this game it won't matter. Seriously, I had above 300 hours of gameplay 
 on this in just a month. I knoe the friend codes can be a nuisance just to get the good online 
 gmaeplay, but if u sign up for www. smashboards. com, u can go to friend finder and soon start participating 
 in online tournaments. As for the single player, the SSE lasts about 15 hours and I like the co-op. 
 As for no dialouge issues, imagine Link saying he kicks ass or Ganon saying u wussies can't do 
 crap. Its fun. Not to mention the endless hours perfecting your technique with your characters 
 (Ganondorf, Peach, and still working on POkemon Trainer) . Also with all of the unlockables, u will 
 never get bored. BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: possesed_fox
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  So yeah after replaying the game for a while I kind of changed my mind about it and yeah this time 
 I think I can give it a pretty decent rating...
  
  For once I would like to start with the bad points (yes there are some (don't worry I'm still going 
 to throw in the good points after...)
  
  The bad:
  
  (Before you start reading however I would like to warn you that there is some spoilers in this 
 review (characters stages and even move sets) so if you don't want to be spoiled you might as well 
 check another review...)
  
  Slowed down game play: The creator of the game, Masahiro Sakurai said that to make the melee experience 
 unique, they would slow down the game play of brawl. But is it really the only reason why they 
 did that? They said it was to accommodate new player of super smash to learn just as fast as old 
 time fans of the series. (What a great (sarcastic) idea) (to really notice how much slower the game 
 play is, pick some characters that where there in melee and make them fight in melee stages then 
 play the same matches in melee (the difference is amazing) )
  
  uninspired moves: ok this is only for some specific characters like for example Diddy Kong and 
 his banana toss they could have gave him any other move like his guitar or his charged head-butt 
 (which they completely scrapped as his side b special move...) but instead they give us this... Diddy 
 Kong isn't the only one what is the deal with pit's mirror's shield? I mean if this move doesn't 
 scream legend of Zelda rip-off what does?
  
  Most of the new (characters that hadn't been there in prequels) characters already there from the 
 start: so yeah we get Meta Knight, King Dedede Diddy Kong, Pit ,Wario, Ike, Zero suit Samus, Pokmon 
 trainer, Olimar and Lucas from the start but characters like Luigi Captain falcon, Ness, Jiglypuff 
 are unlockable (all these characters are there since the 1st game and even Ness and Captain Falcon 
 were available from the start in melee so why still put them unlockable?) they could have easily 
 made the surprise more fun by replacing Lucas with Ness (they already have similar move sets) Ike 
 with Marth (they represent the same universe plus Marth was already in melee) and three others 
 for Luigi Jiglypuff and captain falcon I have no problem with game & watch still being unlockable 
 considering he was the last unlockable in melee and Ganondorf and Falco were not sure to return 
 so it doesn't really matter if they are unlockable it adds to the surprise factor but with the 
 starting rooster that only leaves 4 new unlockable characters 2 of which are clones of already 
 existing ones
  
  
  Some characters removed: now, now we complained in melee that there was to many clone character 
 and that it was a bit scrapping the game play so in brawl Nintendo took out almost all of them 
 (Dr. Mario (why couldn't they bring him back as an alternate costume for Mario?) young link (although 
 replaced by toon link) Roy (I wasn't a fan of the guy but still he was cooler than Marth) Pichu 
 (as much as I hate to admit it I still would had like for him to stay) and then the one that was 
 cut for no reason or basically because people didn't like to play as him (why he was one of my 
 favourites) Mewtwo (some say he was replaced by Lucario but that is nonsense considering they 
 don't even have the same move set (I know what they meant there are both legendary psychic Pokmon's 
 and they use similar techniques but still they aren't the same) ) thankfully they kept Mr. Game 
 and Watch and the Ice Climbers, two other characters that people said they didn't like (this is 
 why I hate tiers list) I mean Mewtwo was awesome but he was cut because some people didn't like 
 to play as him, at least Mr. game & watch is still there (yes he can pack quite the punch when 
 you know how to use him) ) this is one of the example that it's not because we complain about something 
 that we want it out no we just don't want the same thing to be repeated which brings us to
  
  clones...: yeah so no matter how we complained about clone characters in melee there are some 
 new ones in brawl and I don't mean characters that have similar moves like Ike's and Marth's counter 
 no that is actually ok for characters to have similar moves but when they have all the same moves 
 even as the basic moves look the same now we have a problem (I'm still glad they brought Falco 
 and Ganondorf back thought) I mean what young link has been scrapped from melee and been replaced 
 with ... toon link (wow what a cool name) to me they are the same character but anyway the point 
 is he's presented to us as a new character but not only is he not but he also has the same moves 
 as link and I mean all of them even the final smash... but toon link isn't the worse no Wolf is 
 (I love the character in the original series but what is the point of adding yet another fox clone?)
 
  
  speaking of clones there are even some final smash clones: like Fox, Falco and Wolf, land master 
 final smash: they all have the same thing except Falco's one is more areal and wolf's one is stronger 
 but last less long... and as I said before link and toon link have the same final smash also (this 
 time they even do the same effect only the art style changes...)
  
  Pok-ball: why are some cool Pokmons like Blastoise or Unown not returning? I understand that 
 Charizard became a playable character and thus they did not wanted to put him as a poke-ball pokmon 
 also (would we really had complained? I mean Charizard is a specie so it wouldn't had bothered 
 us...) however if it was just that it could had passed but the fact that the only good new Pokmons 
 added are Deoxys ,Latias and Latios (but since they are legendary Pokmon it's super rare to get 
 these) as for the normal ones there is Torchic, Gulpin and Piplup but only if your lucky and Bonsly 
 if you know how to use itif you think about it there aren't that many good poke-ball Pokmons 
 it would pass if we could shoot ten poke-balls at the same time like in melee but in this one we 
 are limited to only three. The assist trophies are even worse because there aren't that many and 
 even thought you still most of the time see the same ones and as if that wasn't bad enough you 
 can only summon one of them at a time
  
  I guess that covers the bad points now let's move on to the good ones
  
  The good:
  
  
 New character: although it was one of my bad points it still pretty fun to have this number of 
 new character join the super smash universe (none of them are clones (ok Lucas is close but he 
 still has a lot of difference and even his standards and smash attacks are different then Ness's 
 so I can't say they are clones)
  
  Assist trophies: they might have limited the number of poke-ball Pokmons we have in the game but 
 it still gives the game a fresh new feeling to have some character from random Nintendo games come 
 to help you in the fight and to top it all there are even some unlockable ones
  
  Final smash: well I guess anyone saw this one coming super smash was already a great fighting 
 game series but adding finishing moves makes it even greater.
  
  Boss fights: I'm sad that Petey was turned into a boss instead of a playable character but still 
 he appears none the less and he is not alone adding bosses to this game gives just that much more 
 challenge
  
  Songs: no more only one song per stage no this time the list goes on and you can set the percentage 
 of chances that your favourite song will appear in the game options and you can even unlock more 
 
  
  3rd party characters: some didn't see this as a good point because super smash was suppose to be 
 a Nintendo only fighting game but who can honestly say he wasn't happy when he learned that snake 
 was in brawl (I hadn't even played mgs at the time (now I own mgs 2 3 and 4) and I was still happy 
 because it gave me hope for sonic, Speaking of I was even happier when I learned he was in the 
 game)
  
  Stages: the stages are just insane there are so many that you will never be bored unless you always 
 play on the same one, and if the already insane number of stage wasn't enough you can even create 
 your own ones
  
  Story mode: ok this one isn't the best but still super smash needed a good story line and while 
 it might not be the best it's still pretty good the cinematics the teams the monster Tabuu you 
 can even play this great mode with a friend and this is one of the major good thing of super smash 
 bros brawl you can play almost every mode with a friend: all star, boss battles, home run contest, 
 multi men melee, break the targets etc
  
  Challenge: some might find it frustrating ( I do sometimes) but the new challenge modes is just 
 great even after you unlock all the stages, songs, and characters it challenges you to do even 
 more to unlock trophies stages part stickers etcthis is one of the major reasons why I still play 
 this game
  
  Trophies: this time the trophies takes even more spot there are Nintendo character trophies fighter 
 trophies final smash trophies enemy trophies (which you capture with the trophy base item in the 
 story mode (one of the major challenge of the game and also one of the main reason why you'll probably 
 play the subspace emissary again) and even boss trophies (if you thought capturing enemy trophies 
 where hard wait till you have to catch a boss trophies) and there is even sticker this time (which 
 represent artworks of Nintendo's various games) this can really add up to your collector needs
 
  
  Alternate costumes: ok there aren't that many alternate costumes but Wario has both his biker (Wario 
 ware) costume and his plumber/overall (Wario world/classic costume) however he is the only character 
 that has a real different outfit but still Link as a dark Link recolor Peach has a Daisy recolor 
 Meta knight has a Dark meta knight recolor and so on (still if only they could had put Dr. Mario 
 as an alternate for Mario and come to think of it instead of completely scrapping a character 
 spot for toon link why wasn't he made as an altenate for link? (well what they have the same move 
 set and they are the same character so...) )
  
  
  Well I guess I covered everything there is to know about super smash bros brawl while it's not 
 the best game ever it is still a must if you have a wii (heck it's probably the reason you bought 
 one in the 1st place (at least in my case it's true) ) you must have this game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: griffinboy846
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 19, 2008 6:00 am PT
Review:  Story:7/10: Some darkness things come to take over the world and it's up to all your favorite characters 
 to fight it. It just gives an excuse to beat people up. It's pretty basic for a fighting game.
 
  Gameplay:8.8/10: The core gameplay remains the same form the other 2 SSB games. You pick a character, 
 use an assortment of items to fight them, and smack their percentage totals up the roof. The new 
 thing in fighting is the Final Smash. When you break it, and you gain it's power, you can unleash 
 a devastating attack that will pwn your foes.
  There are a lot of unlockables. I won't get into them, since there are so many. 
  New this time 
 is Wi-Fi battles. Let me get this straight: playing online is awful. First, you connect to Wi-Fi. 
 Pick between Freind Battle or Anyone. When you choose anyone, expect to wait for people to join 
 the lobby. When the game begins, it's basically the same. But, there is LAG!!! Lots. While playing, 
 I waited about 1 minute for 2 seconds to go by. That's messed up.
  Graphics: 7.3/10: Graphics are ok. Besides some new detail and more darker colors on the character 
 costumes, it's basically the same as the GCN one.
  AI:8/10: AI is great. You can choose between 9 different difficulty levels, meaning there is a 
 level for anyone.
  If you want this game really bad, it's up to you. Wi-Fi is a mess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tacoeater831
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  yeah, my reviews are official now. well, where do I start. brawl is at this point, one of the BEST 
 games this gaming generation. right up there with mgs4 and halo 3. anything you can think of to 
 do in this game you can do. you can make your own stages, play online (which is in my opinon getting 
 better lately with lag) with characters ranging from the obvious like mario. to the completely 
 wierd like R. O. B and mr. game and watch. the game also has third party characters sonic and solid 
 snake. there is also 41 stages with the obvious ones like a stage from the mario and zelda games. 
 to the wierder stages like pictochat and the first stage from the original super mario bros. this 
 game has literaly dozens of modes. from the subspace emmisary. which is amazing for a story with 
 no speech at all. to classic and all star modes. plus all the multiplayer options everyone loves. 
 the only reason not to get this game is if you hate nintendo. so go pick up a copy and enjoy the 
 brawlin'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salinas30
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Since its debut, SSB has been something else. The first ever SSB was awesome, it was enjoyable, 
 it was exhilarating, it was a work of genius, it was 3D. I remember playing the game deep into 
 the night (I would literally collapse from malnutrition, it was that awesome) . Then came SSB Melee. 
 It literally bested its predecessor in every way imaginable from sheer content alone. As I eagerly 
 awaited for the game, I was utterly disappointed once I actually got it. Sure it was a jump from 
 the last title as far as graphics and game-play go, but not quite like its predecessor. Brawl was 
 much much more amazing in comparison to the original SSB but Melee still remains strong even in 
 comparison to Brawl, of course most will agree otherwise, but fact is Nintendo is running short 
 on creativity when it comes to these titles.
  Other than that, the game is Great! And as you can see I've spent more than my share of hours playing 
 the game, which in retrospect makes me sound like a hypocrite. Were I Diddy Kong I would give this 
 game four thumbs up! SSB Banzai! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alses
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is a revolution to smash brothers series its a great game. The only flaw is that it gets 
 boring unless you play with friends or online so after the game is finished you will only play 
 it when your friends come over. The final smash feature gave the game a more of dramatic experience, 
 but you cant use it in adventure. Adventure mode is now a cool story unlike the previous smash 
 brothers and has amazing cut scenes that you will probably ignore after seeing them for the first 
 time. One thing that is really awesome is that now there are no more clone characters, in a way 
 all the characters are best it depends on how you use them and that is the thing that really got 
 me to like the game so much! If your thinking about buying this game you should, but it depends 
 on what king of games you like. P. S in this game Nintendo went overboard with Zero Suit Samus. 
 ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit, I was pretty stoked when I learned that Nintendo was bringing back it's fighter 
 franchise to the Wii. I feel that Nintendo is the only company to have a handle on how to make 
 good games for the Wii (go figure) . I was wondering how they were going to take the motion controls 
 and apply them to the Super Smash Bros franchise. Would it be like Zelda, Mario, Metroid, or a 
 combination of both? Then when I read that there were no motion controls I was a bit disapointned. 
 I was looking forward to jumping around with my buddies trying to knock Peach off the screen. Then 
 I did realize that it would probably be a little much. So natrually I was thinking that Nintendo 
 had some kind of game play option that would be different I was wrong. 
  
  Melee is a hard act to follow, and while Brawl does a good job at being a bigger game, I don't 
 think it's better or even a step forward, but rather just standing still. 
  
  So you have for the most part the same line up of characters from Melee, some have been deleted 
 for others, but most come back to make their appearance, I can't say that I actually miss any of 
 the character, but I wish they all had made the transistion over to boast an even bigger line up. 
 Granted there are 2 3rd party characters included (Sonic and Snake) but they play the same as the 
 rest of the Nintendo counterparts. The premise of the game is EXACTLY the same, all the same modes 
 from Melee made it back, there really isn't too much that is new. Your goal is still to knock your 
 opponants off of the sceen in order to win (accept for the countdown mode) . Essentually Brawl just 
 adds a bunch of stuff onto Melee and Nintendo repackaged it and called it a new game. 
  
  Added features are the trophy sling shot. It's a mini game that you shoot coins at items and get 
 a random trophy. You can also add stickers to you trophies for more items. There are classics, 
 which is one level (or so) of an original NES character's game. There are a couple of new things 
 added to the multiplayer options, now called BRAWL. The coolest thing that you can do is play online 
 (if you can get the server to work) . But you can't talk smack to people like xbox live, you can 
 type, a little bit. 
  
  The single players modes are pretty much the same. You have event matches, arcade mode, and story 
 mode. Story mode is a string of CG cut scenes strung together to kind of make a story. You can 
 find extra characers, trophies and levels that way. Much like any other of the single player modes. 
 The story mode is boring, it goes back to the 2-d SMB and Final Fight games. If you can be bored 
 through it for a couple hours you can open most of the stuff up. 
  
  The graphics do look good though, they are a step up from Melee, in fact Brawl is one of the best 
 looking games on the Wii. The music is of course awesome, mixing many of your old favorites tunes 
 around. The sounds are stripped from the games of the character's origins. The play control is 
 pretty tight no matter which controller you use, although I prefer the classic controller. 
  
  All in all Brawl is tried and true to it's prior installments. If you are looking for something 
 new within the series, this game may not be for you. But if you are a die hard Nintendo fan it's 
 worth a look. It's definately the one you want if you are new to the series. Either way it's worth 
 your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetaKirbyfan14
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl is one of the best games of all time. If you have a Wii get this. The gameplay 
 itself is addicting, the graphics are just what you would expect from the Wii, the multiplayer is 
 awesome, you could play hours of this everyday. The story is deep and awesome, and there is so 
 much to do, collect trophies from past nintendo games, collect every sticker, and try to beat all 
 the challenges. The cpu's difficulty ranges from very easy to very hard, perfect new players and 
 seasoned vetrans. Basically this game is a must get. The wi-fi is has lag and is slow but if you 
 overcome that it should be fine. But even if you don't have a internet connection, You still will 
 have a great time. This game also has replay value since the game is so big theres something for 
 everyone. Well I guess thats all for my review, hope I was some help. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamt2828
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is so good!!! 
  I got it for my birthday and as soon as i picked up the Wii remote i loved it!!! This game has 
 so many modes so you will never get bored. The levels and characters are also fantastic so you 
 will always be entertained. This game is great on your own or multiplayer. If you have a Wii you 
 seriously have to get this game its just so good. I rate it 9.5/10!!!
  
  This game is so good!!! 
  I got it for my birthday and as soon as i picked up the Wii remote 
 i loved it!!! This game has so many modes so you will never get bored. The levels and characters 
 are also fantastic so you will always be entertained. This game is great on your own or multiplayer. 
 If you have a Wii you seriously have to get this game its just so good. I rate it 9.5/10!!!
  
  This game is so good!!! 
  I got it for my birthday and as soon as i picked up the Wii remote 
 i loved it!!! This game has so many modes so you will never get bored. The levels and characters 
 are also fantastic so you will always be entertained. This game is great on your own or multiplayer. 
 If you have a Wii you seriously have to get this game its just so good. I rate it 9.5/10!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrashmaster
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2008 2:43 am PT
Review:  This is certainly the best in the series and is great fun, with just a few flaws in it. The wide 
 range of characters is a warm welcome and most can be handled very well if mastered but some are 
 just lacking in abilities. The storyline is fun as long as you play it with a friend but can be 
 very annoying at times, they have a lot more extras you can do and the online play is fun but the 
 game is still lacking a bit in areas. Sometimes it just feels like the content is more about quantity 
 rather than quality.
  
  GRAPHICS: 10
  The graphics are very nice, both in the cutscenes and midgame. You can see the upgrade from its 
 predecessor right away. I really can't find an area to complain in here.
  
  CONTROLS: 9.2
  As solid and smooth to control as ever, but when you will still find yourself 
 messing up occasionally as the slightest mistake is not very forgiving.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 9
  It is sorta difficult to rate the gameplay of Brawl because there are a couple different ways to 
 play it. Classic mode is as good as every time you play it changes a little bit. The subspace emissary 
 is very fun but can be very annoying for the second player most of the time because instead the 
 camera panning out like normal it only follows player 1. It could have done without the homerun 
 derby and the target smash. I would like to have seen more of the co-op challenges.
  
  SOUND: 9.7
  The music is always a pleasure to fight with and listen to in the game. The music 
 they pick for each stage is well suited and never feels out of place. The sounds are also of good 
 quality and put a good emphasis on the devastation some of the items cause.
  
  STORY: 8.7
  The story in here comes from the Subspace emissary which is interesting and fun but 
 can be a little difficult to follow, and a bit to long for comfort. It is fun however seeing your 
 favorite characters develop in the overall story of the game.
  
  MULTIPLAYER: 8.5
  Easily the heart of the game, whether it be with friends around the screen or vsing total strangers. 
 There are a couple of reasons for the 8.5 rating. First of all you cannot team up with a friend 
 online unless you are playing other people on your friends list. So if you and a friend are hanging 
 out and you two want to fight online but you don't have friends online then you will be switching 
 off the controller to fight strangers. You also can only play 3 min matches, leaving my favorite 
 5 stock out of the question. 
  
  FINAL: 9.18 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paperlugi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  I must admit, I was disappointed with Brawl. I followed the hype for two year, TWO YEARS. And what 
 did I get? I got a couple of new characters, more clones (now we have 3 Foxes, thank god) . Yeah 
 there are some cool levels and characters, but the game didn't become what it was built up to be. 
 I had more fun on the boards and speculating possible outcomes. The new story wasn't that special. 
 What else was added?... Final Smashes... a Hammer with flair... oh wait that's the gold hammer... 
 with personal style? I can say the only pluses I got from the game are Snake, Olimar, Toon Link, 
 and Level Builder. Sonic wasn't even that fun to play as, although I do love his level. I guess 
 that's since I knew everything before I got the game the fun was lost...
  Kudos on the Music though...
  and graphics worked out well too...
  Still though, not AMAZING.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KJsmashdude
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Alright, This game is amazing don't look at other reviews that say 7.0 or lower it just rocks with 
 online multiplayer stage creations and an all out Action packed Story mode that any kind of gamer 
 would like.
  
  The good stuff:
  Many popular charactors from nintendo, just plain funny at times (not all the time) , you can take 
 snapshots and memories than you don't want to forget ever, you can create stages, so many game 
 modes you will NEVER get board at any time, story is pretty well done, amazing graphics, many challenges 
 to complete, over 600 or so trophies, awords, music, or stickers to collect, you'll be suprised 
 at some of the things people can do on the internet, stages are very interesting, over 40 items 
 to fight with.
  
  The bad stuff:
  You missing out on a lot if you don't have Wi-Fi, created stages can't be used online, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackGoldX
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  When you first play this game, you probably wont want to put the control down, it's a very addicting 
 game, and trust me you wont mind what so ever, as said in the Gamespot review the single payer 
 mode is VERY GOOD, but at the end of the day this game is a multiplayer game so id better enjoyed 
 with friends.
  
  I mean how can you beat a game which has such a large choice of Nintendo characters (and friends) 
 to play as and to make it even better they put them all together to fight it out to see who's Top 
 Dog, how can you criticise that? You can also create your own stages which makes it even better.
 
  
  I remember playing Super Smash Bros Melee (SSBM) at a friends house years ago, and the memory of 
 that stuck like glue, so when another sequel came out I knew it would be good, and guess what? 
 It lives up to its expectations, so I would definitely recommend getting this game.
  No seriously why are still reading this review, go out and buy it now!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bones3417
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  this game is cool it is like a 2-D fighting style game you can plays as all the classic nintendo 
 characters like Mario, Link, Kirby, Samus, Donkey Kong, and Ike and it has some 3rd party characters 
 like Sonic and Snake it is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun it is 
 fun it is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun it 
 is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun 
 it is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun it is it is fun 
 it is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun it is 
 fun it is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun it 
 is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G6games
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  I usually don't believe games should change that much, I know some people might complain 'aw its 
 the same crap knocking players off the course' ,but thats what Smash brothers brawl is about really. 
 There is more characters in the game, like wolf, toon link, some pokemon Lucario I think which 
 is basically a clone of Mewtwo from Melee, Sonic, Snake and King DeeDee. The adventure mode is 
 huge, its different from the Melee, like this time its not just walking through the adventure mode 
 with one character. On this one you'll star out with Pit whos also a new character, then you'll 
 advance and unlock more as you go. It also has a storyline in adventure to which leads to facing 
 a very hard big bad guy named Tabuu. Theres also bosses such as Raqueaz that green long pokemon, 
 that dragon from Metroid, it just basically has most of the characters bad guys in it. One bad 
 thing about it is online play sucks, to this day I've yet to play online, it just says seeking, 
 then you'll go to this level with the bean bag, and eventually you'll get disconnected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shandyzx
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  OMG!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  this game is the most amazing game i have ever played.
  anyone who has got a wii you have to go out and buy it right at this time.
  first the graphics 
 are so cool for the wii.
  next the gameplay is so mad and cool it is just awsome and fun.
  the replay value of this game is that you could just play it over and over and over and over and 
 over and over again it is that fun!!!!!!!
  the fun bit is that there is loads of nintendo characters which is good like mario, sonic etc
 
  the controles are also very very very simple but very clever.
  i wont say any more exept...............
  GO AND BUY THE MOST AMAZING GAME EVER!!!!!
  THE GAME 
 WITH LOADS OF VALUE AND WORTH THE MONEY!!!!
  BUY IT!! BUY IT !!!! BUT IT!!!! BUY IT !!!!!! BUY !!!!! BUY IT!!!! BUY IT !!!!!!! BUY IT!!!!! BUT 
 IT!!!!! 
  RIGHT NOW!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebelious
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  It's been a long time coming, but finally not only is this game the best super smash brothers game 
 to date, it's also a game where both Sonic and Mario can fight in a long over do fan service match. 
 Back in the day you could'nt convince me that such a battle would come true. Times are definately 
 changing.
  
  But enough of that. This game does the series justice. Fan service galore, impressive gameplay, 
 and the backgrounds are wonderful. And we get to play this online. A feature that was neglected 
 back on smash bros. melee. Solid snake also makes a surprise appearence.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are gorgeous. Lot's of detail is placed on every character and item. The 
 backgrounds are the best seen in any ssb game. Where most of the levels change shape and makes 
 the battle more challenging.
  
  Gameplay: Plays like melee with alot of tweaks. But any veteran should feel right at home. A new 
 item called the smash ball, comes in and floats around during battle. The first to break that ball 
 will have a chance to use a powerful special called final smash. Which can turn the battle to your 
 favor if used properly.
  
  Sound: High quality sound. Nintendo always delivers.
  
  Conclusion: If you have a Wii, than buy this game.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: strider318
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  the reason i bought this game was that i belived the hype, boy was i wrong. if you ask me its just 
 like super smash brothers melee except with online and different playing modes. the new story like 
 "subspace emmisary" is a good idea but its a bit underwelming and you seem to die too much and 
 yes, i was playing on the lowest difficulty possible. if you were to take ssbm, put it on wii controls, 
 add some new characters and stages and put in a new fighting mode thats baisicly what ssbb really 
 is. so if you liked ssbm and want to try it on the wii then go for it but you really shouldnt belive 
 the hype because its not that good.... but then again ive never played online so maybe thats why 
 this game is so famous, but im not sure that it could save the game alone. so i enjoyed ssbb but 
 it just wasnt good enough for me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 5, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  Finally! I get to review Brawl! After the tosh I reviewed within the last week my sanity will return! 
 Yay!
  
  If you don't know about the Super Smash Bros Series I'll fill you in. It's a classic beat um up, 
 featuring Nintendo mascots. Super Smash Bros on the N64 was good but then with a huge amount of 
 characters in Melee, Brawl has got a lot to beat. One of the main criticisms is that while fun 
 in multiplayer there isn't much to do on your own. HAL have sorted that out by putting in a solid 
 10 hour Adventure mode, The Subspace Emissary, in there. The classic mode, where you you brawl 
 continuosly against themed contenders, like Link and Zelda on Bridge of Eldin. 
  
  As you go on in the game you will unlock things called Masterpieces. These are short demos of past 
 games that the battlers have starred in, which you can buy from the VC. The masterpieces are, Kid 
 Icarus NES, Ice Climbers NES, Super Mario Bros NES, Super Marios Bros 2 NES, Donkey Kong NES, Legend 
 of Zelda NES, Super Mario World SNES, F Zero SNES, Super Metroid SNES, Legend of Zelda Ocarina 
 of Time N64 and Lylat Wars N64. This is accessed in the vault. You can also create stages here 
 and share them on wi-fi. Oh W-Fi. I need to tell you something about that...
  
  Probably the main reasons to get Brawl is to battle online. But as it has to send messages really 
 quickly back and forth, it does lag from time to time. The best online play still goes to Mario 
 Kart Wii. There is a whole range of characters from Mario to Pokemon to Zelda to the more unknown 
 like Fire Emblem and Earthbound. Many of the characters are unlocked via the Subspace Emissary. 
 Talking about unlockables, there is a lot to unlock, music, stages, trophies and stickers. And 
 trust me, this will keep you going till you earn enough money for a new game. Even on minimum wage. 
 
  
  Everyone should get this game. Only the lagging wi-fi is bad, and we'd be moaning if it had none. 
 Trust me this game is a must have.
  
  +Brawling is great fun!
  +Multiplayer is brilliant
  +Great Single Player Mode
  +Lots to unlock
  -Wi-Fi lags from time 
 to time.
  
  In Summary
  It could well be the best game on Wii. Get it. 98% 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Javingston
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Listen here, the game rocks until you play it for about 2 hours, then it's just repetitive. All 
 you do is fight. Nothing else, I seriously advice you not to buy it, it's a waste of money. Not 
 all people feel the same way as me, some people might have read the reviews that say "This game 
 never gets old!" Or "Nintendo, you've done it again."
  Well you know what, Nintendo stuffed it up. They made me and plenty of other people, I'm sure, 
 very unhappy with their efforts.
  
  But you know what, Within the long 2 hours that you play it before it gets boring, it is really 
 good. You play story mode, that has bosses, and an actual story, it's much more adventurous than 
 the other game. They have taken a few characters out of the list but don't worry, they have been 
 replaced. I'm sure I'm not the only one who doesn't approve of how they took mutu out, he was pretty 
 strong in Melee.
  
  If you do like it, then good for you but if your like me and hate every bit of it after those special 
 2 hours and if you have any ideas to start a union about how much you hate Super Smash Brothers 
 Brawl, then I'm with you all the way.
  
  All I ask of Nintendo is "please god no, do not make another Super Smash Brothers game," because 
 you have already ruined the first game, Melee by making Brawl. I have nothing against Nintendo, 
 when I'm bored, they make my day, when it's really hot and I can't be bothered getting up off the 
 couch, they give me something to do. They have helped me over the year to kill boredom, but this 
 game is just horrible.
  
  Bye it if you really want to but if you want my advice, don't, please. I can guess that if you 
 have heard that it's a great game and it rocks and all that stuff, I know how tempting it is, but 
 sadly temptation took over me and I bought it. I am warning you, temptation is the devil's friend, 
 don't bye it.
  
  I hope my review helped you to make up your mind whether you enjoy the idea of Brawl or not.
 
  
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: spacepirate555
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is an awesome game and I'd recommend it to anybody!! First off, the regular Brawling 
 was great with the characters and stages. The items also were a good part of the brawling. The 
 final smash was a great item for most characters and was a great idea! Second, the Classic and 
 All-Star modes were nice. I liked all-star better in this game then melee and classic is fun also. 
 The event matches were good and I especially liked how they made co-op different from 1-player 
 events. The stuff in Vault was mostly good with the replays, custom stages, masterpieces, and challenges. 
 The chronicle was almost a waste of space except that it let you see a list of all Nintendo games 
 without going on-line. Yay. The Subspace, though, was a little tedious with some of the levels 
 and could of used a bit of work. The in-game movies were really nice though and was a job done 
 well. And lastly, the on-line mode was a pretty good mix with the With Anyone and With Friends 
 mode. One problem, though, is that seemingly for no reason, in an on-line match, the battle will 
 freeze and it'll say you've been disconnected after about 20 seconds. But all in all, on-line is 
 pretty good. This game, once again, was great and i'd recommend to anybody. If you haven't played 
 it, then you at least need to play it once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lisekill1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 5:11 am PT
Review:  ok this game stinks! wifi lags, soo easy and the only place where it is good is 2 player. i think 
 it is highly overrated i mean 9 and a half? too high. it also has suckish controls (unless u play 
 with g cube controller) . characters? they're ok. but no cloud, no lloyd, no shadow, noknuckles, no megaman 
 and no tails. BUT they do have the people uve been waiting for: lucario, snake and sonic. but sonics' 
 controls suck. they are all the same; spinning. use lucario if u have the game (thats my dude) . snake 
 is cool to but most of his attacks are projectiles so be careful. stage builder is kinda fun but 
 u only use blox n stuff. story mode, too easy. ull win in 4 hours or so. so only get this game if u 
 have alot of friends that live near or lots of siblings. save some money if ur a loner and buy "Legend 
 of Zelda: Twilight Princess". that game is ssoo long and hard and fun. or u could get "Super Mario 
 Galaxy". not so hard but long and fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neji561
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Now i been playin SSB since N64 and i came to the conclusion that it cant get any better! When 
 i first heard this was comin out i flipped out, i waited forever but they were finally comin out 
 with another one. So i got it the first day. I was real happy it finally had a story. (But Mario 
 got messed up throughout the whole thing.) The endless brawl is the funnest thing ever! Just killin 
 them with one good hit. Really did like all the characters. (Ike) I got online with Ike, my first 
 match, won without dieing. I still dont get where people are fetting the "Ike is overrated" thing 
 from. Anyway, the gameplay is a little better same with the game cube controller just don't i repeat 
 DONT use the wiimote, i got tricked with that once before. I also didnt think the wii could deliver 
 such good graphics. Overall in my opinion this is the best Wii game to date. Its gonna take a whole 
 lot to top this!! O yeah somebody please tell y is jigglypuff is still in this game?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seekerfromafar
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 3, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  At first I was so excided to get this game and I even reserved it. not only did I play this I also 
 played the other past two hoping it would be better, but I was sadly disappointed.
  every character has at least one cheap move and it's very unbalanced. For example, the cheapest 
 being MetaKnight. His Mach Tornado move is inescapable and could be used through out the whole 
 battle. Lucario's jump down A move is very similar and unblockable. Pit's arrows are very anoying 
 and they can move too but his shield is much worse it can block EVERYTHING. Picachu down A smash 
 move is much like Peach's move in melee; it just drags you in. R. O. B.'s projectiles can be a pain 
 too because you can't get close, etc... You get my point.
  if you think just the moves are cheap think again. Items make the situation worse. Yes, all the 
 iteams are cheap and I think anyone who uses them wants a cheap way to win. Especially those stupid 
 smash balls because it's an automatic win to who ever gets it. I mean come on... As if the characters 
 aren't cheap enough without the items.
  so in conclusion this game stinks campared to other fighting games. TO ME THIS GAME IS BROKEN! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flightofdragon
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  SSBB is the best game EVER!!! It's worth everything everyone's said about it!!! I played SSBM then 
 switched to SSBB and the difference was HUGE!!! It has stunning graphics, and I can't stop playing 
 it. THIS I MORE THAN A MUST-GET FOR ALL WII FANS! I absolutely love this game! (though you've probably 
 figured that out by now) . Learning period is about a half hour and that includes getting used to 
 the controls. I would suggest reading the Gamespot review just to get a better notion of what this 
 game is really all about. Remember, THIS A MORE THAN A MUST-GET FOR ALL WII FANS! Now if you excuse 
 me I need to have 800 characters so I'm going to type letters overandover again. IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
 LLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLL TTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTT QQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQ GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG LLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLL 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendonoob
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games Ive played in my entire life. This game is the perfect multiplayer also. 
 In this you you just fight it out with the most popular nintendo characters from mario to marth. 
 I think there is like 40 characters which is crazy awesome. I dont know anyboy who does not like 
 variety in a game. THe story mode is really cool too. What is really awesome about story mode is 
 that you can play either one or two player. Also he number of items in the game has increased so 
 much I will probably never use every single item there is in the game! The rewards for reaching 
 certain milestones while fighting is awesome. For a reward I just got Luigis Mansion as a stadium. 
 So far its my favorite stadium. Another cool thing about the game is the many ways you can play 
 the game. From playing it with a gamecube controller to playing with the wii remote holding it 
 sideways. If you get the game try to play in every single way you can. Trust me, itll be really 
 fun. Also if you are familiar to the games youll be surprized to hear there is an all new new attack. It 
 is awesome. Each character has a unique special attack. To get the special attack you have to grab 
 a special shining ball while playing and then press B. My favorite special attack is the special 
 attack is the one of lucario. It is some kind of special hyper beam. So to make a long story short 
 this game is incredible in every way, and if you are looking for a good wii game, Mario Bros Brawl 
 is the number 1 way to go. so plz get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordMaceX
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  The Super Smash Brothers series is a massive collage of the Nintendo franchise formed into a fighting 
 game. It uses many heroes and villains from various series such as Mario, Legend of Zelda, Metroid, 
 F-Zero, Kirby, and many more. The previous two Super Smash Bros games did not have a storyline 
 to play through but Brawl strays from the norm and gives it a new twist.
  
  You begin in a stadium where Mario and Kirby are having a friendly battle together. Suddenly a 
 barrage of mysterious creatures and a very large aircraft assaulted the stadium, these creatures 
 begin attacking everyone and the heroes begin fighting them off. In the heat of battle an emissary 
 from these forces comes and sets down some sort of explosive. They quickly flee but devastation 
 from the blast destroys the entire stadium leaving nothing but those who escaped.
  
  Throughout Super Smash Bros Brawl you fight the Sub Space Emissary and its mysterious forces, which 
 have invaded. You begin as Mario but through the game you play as nearly every character in the 
 game. The storyline provides little back-story and small amounts of actual story but you already 
 know everything there is to know about all these big name characters from everyone's favorites 
 Nintendo games. The story is exactly as it should be one big all out brawl between all your favorite 
 heroes, villains, and this mysterious Sub Space Emissary.
  
  Probably the most important addition to the sries is the larger and more diverse cast of new characters. 
 With some old classics such as Pit and Sonic and newer characters from recent games such as Ike 
 and even Solid Snake from Metal Gear Solid. Unlike the previous games these new characters are 
 mostly very different from the previous ones with very unique play styles. Another big introduction 
 is a wide variety of new items including the infamous "Smash Ball" this item allows the user to 
 unleash a unique and powerful super attack against his foes almost always ending in their death.
 
  
  The combat system is nearly identical to the old games, you can use normal attacks, smash attacks, 
 and your unique character skills to defeat your opponent. Normal attack are mainly used for causing 
 damage to get your opponent to where you can kill the, smash attacks can be used to cause some 
 good damage but also send the character flying increasing your chance to finish them a lot. Every 
 character has 4 special moves which are all good for different things along with these each character 
 also has a grab move with a couple throws. To conquer your opponents you also have other skills 
 to learn such as shielding, rolling, air dodging, and much more all of which are extremely useful 
 in different circumstances.
  
  Air dodging went through a transformation in Brawl now instead of staying in mid-air while doing 
 an air dodge you continue to fall while you do it. The only large change to the game mechanics 
 is the removal of wave dashing, although some may disagree I for one am happy to see this exploit 
 taken out of the game it allowed you to move in ways otherwise impossible which changed the combat 
 system entirely. Before you had to master wave dashing to be truly good at Smash Bros but with 
 it gone it is back to the original game mechanics.
  
  The four-player combat is essential to the Super Smash Bros series it gives a whole new feel to 
 the fighting game and makes it the best multiplayer fighting game hands down in my opinion. With 
 a side scrolling environment and the chaos and excitement of the simple yet complex combat Super 
 Smash Bros Brawl will be a solid icon in the history of fighting games. They also expanded greatly 
 on the trophys from the last game adding much more unlockables to strive for as well as new things 
 called stickers allowing you to customize your characters for single-player.
  
  Yet another large new feature is the ability to make your own stages, although you cannot make 
 them as complex as the Brawl stages or the classic stages it is very fun and adds a new element 
 to the game. The graphics on Brawl have obviously taken a large jump forward on the Wii, many people 
 talk bad of the series for the cartoon graphics but would you really want to play Mario, Link, 
 and Donkey Kong if they looks realistic? No, they are cartooney for a reason and they look flawless 
 that way anyone who wants them to be changed doesn't like them in the first place. The fantastic 
 animations of the various skills and stages among other things add to the great environment of 
 the series as you battle.
  
  The music of Super Smash Bros Brawl like the rest of the games is a collage of music from all the 
 classics and new titles. This allows you to not only hear new music from brand new Nintendo titles 
 but also hear your favorite classics such as the Legend of Zelda theme. Not only is the music utterly 
 fantastic but also the rest of the sound as well, the voices and sound effects of the game are 
 great and add much to the games quality.
  
  Overall Super Smash Bros Brawl is a masterpiece taking the great parts of the series and improving 
 on them is every way possible. If you own a Wii you need this game it is a blast by yourself and 
 it is priceless for multiplayer and in my opinion is the best fighting game there is. I would rate 
 Super Smash Bros Brawl a 10 out of 10 for taking an amazing series and adding great new characters, 
 new items, a storyline, and online play turning it from a great game into a masterpiece that people 
 will play for years and years to come. I couldn't refer this game any more highly it is a must 
 buy for any and all video game plays and Wii owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jesta93
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl is a game that has/will revolutionize the wii franchise. The game was advertised 
 a lot and there was a lot of hype and speculation about the game, and thankfully Nintendo delivered 
 and made every expectation.
  
  The overall game play of this game is sheer excellence. The many methods of control help vary the 
 way you play, so it always keeps it interesting and the styles of play such as Sub Space Emissary 
 (SSE) make the solo player side of the game much more enjoyable.
  
  The general characters in this game are also in a much bigger variety because you get the clear 
 and obvious power houses such as DeDeDe and then the cute but devilish speed attackers like Kirby. 
 The whole range of characters from a massive selection of games also help appeal to every gamers 
 interest, because there is bound to be a character that everyone likes, because Nintendo have taken 
 a few characters from basically every big, well respected game franchises and placed them all in 
 Super Smash Bros Brawl.
  
  The graphics of this game a sublime. The way Nintendo focused on the background detail on every 
 brawling stage is a great achievement for them. Another stunning factor about the graphics is that 
 Nintendo did not skip anything. Each character is designed flawlessly and the stages are also. 
 The detail on many characters clothing is also exquisite even down to the fine stitching on Mario's 
 denim outfit.
  
  Overall i rate this game as perfect, the way Nintendo have composed everything in the game is just 
 astonishing. The game is filled with the "fun factor" so the game can be played for hours on end 
 with no issues of boredom thanks to the many different ways to play the game.
  
  Thanks for reading my review, recommend it if you liked it. 
  
  Sincerely Jesta. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hXcAndy32
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game to fill my fix until Mario Kart Wii came out. The funny thing is I play it more 
 than Mario Kart now. Unlocking everything in the game is just addicting. There are hundreds of 
 things to unlock in it.
  
  This is the first Smash Brothers game that I have ever owned. I have played from the original though. 
 Long nights of multiplayer brings back memories but this one makes them seem distant. This game 
 is amazing and the multiplayer is even more furious that before. At times it makes you hate your 
 friends and vice-versa but that's half the fun. 
  
  Level creator, tons of new characters, new levels, original levels, hundreds of trophies, stickers, 
 and challenges to unlock, original game demos from NES-N64, songs. This game has it all. Part of 
 what makes it so addicting is you get rewarded for the longer you play. I have yet to unlock the 
 100 hour trophy though.
  
  Go buy it and play with your friends, that's the best way to play (although there are many good 
 single player modes) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sexyman123abc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  i love this game it is awesome at parties aand i love the story !!!! !!!! !!!! !!!! !!!! !!!!!!!! 
 !! !!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!! !! !!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!! 
 !!!! !!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! ! !!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!! !!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!! !!!!!!!!!! !!!!!! !! !! !!!! !!! !!!!! !!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!! !!! !!!! !!!! !!!! !!!!! !!! !!!!! !!!!!! !!!!! !!!! !!!! !!!!!!!! !!! !!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!! !!!! !!!!!!! !!!!! !!!! !!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!! !!!!! !!!!!!! !!!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!!! 
 !!!! !!!!! !!!! !!!!! !!!! !!! !!!! !!! !!!! !!! !!!! !!!! !!!! !!! !!! !! !!! !!! !!!! !!!!!! 
 !!!! !!!! !!!!! !!!! !!!! !!! !!! !!!! !!! !!!! !!!! !!!! !!!! !!!! !!!! !!!!! !!!! !! !!!!!! !!!! 
 !!!! !!!! !!!!!! !!!! !!! !!!! ! !! ! !! ! !!! !!! ! ! !! !!! !! !! !!!!! !! ! ! !! ! !! ! !! !! 
 !! !! ! !!! ! !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billybeegood
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 9:16 am PT
Review:  a real thriller but the game is fairly easy and easy to unlock all of the charactors but still 
 amazing
  
  top 10 charactors
  1. Meta knight
  2. Snake
  3. Falco
  4. King Dedede
  5. Mr. game and watch
  6. Diddy kong
  7. R. O. B
  8. Olimar
  9. Marth
  10. Wario
  
  top 
 3 worst charactors
  3rd worst. jiggilypuff
  2nd worst. Ganon
  worst. captain falcon
  
  if your character is on this list than you probably retarded or looking for a REAL challenge.
 
  
  some may think sonic deserves a spot but he is too weak and super sonic is easy to doge for the 
 expert players. r+left/right control stick..... remember that next time you play against sonic using 
 idiots.
  
  
  if your wondering why falcon is the worst character in the game? than your probably still stuck 
 in the SSE on easy XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaMa729
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 29, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is crazy, I love it. first thing, I think they made the computers a bit more harder when 
 I play alone and I put in 3 computers at Nasty mode, its kinda hard to win, but its cool, more 
 challenging it wouldn't get boring. They've added a bunch of new characters like Meta Knight, Pit, 
 and my favorite new character, Sonic. Some of the old characters moves has been changed like Mario's 
 Down + A is now the tornado instead of Down + B, a few modifications to some of the old characters 
 moves which made it better. The Final Smash is a new thing which I thought was genius. Some of 
 the Finals are crazy and help out alot in matches. You can even make your own stages or play some 
 of the stages from Melee. Even the Trophey Lottery thing was improved, you gotta shot the thing 
 for a Trophey, Lol. 
  the Wifi play is great, for some people the Wifi may lag and make the gameplay realllly realllly 
 slow, but if you got a really good internet connection its really good, you can't get bored by 
 playing other people online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyRice
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Plenty of controller options; a ton of characters; more differentiation between said 
 characters, surprisingly; wonderful graphics; huge, orchestrated music that might not have ever 
 been orchestrated before; tons of modes, difficulties and options; Wi-Fi without lag; beautiful 
 cutscenes in Subspace Emissary, plus co-op; you can design levels; the best multiplayer ever.
 
  
  The Bad: Subspace Emissary is a huge improvement, but there are still kinks to iron out in single 
 player; Wi-Fi isn't that great without friend codes.
  
  Super Smash Bros., the original, came out toward the end of the N64's life, so while it garnered 
 some attention, it wasn't quite the hit games like Super Mario 64, GoldenEye or Zelda: Ocarina 
 of Time were.
  
  Super Smash Bros. Melee, the second installment for Gamecube, was a massive improvement with more 
 levels, better graphics, more items, more characters, and the new Adventure mode and Event Matches. 
 It came out right off the bat in the Gamecube era, and was one of the bestselling titles on the 
 system. The multiplayer is famous for being one of the best party experiences video games have 
 ever produced.
  
  Brawl, for that reason, has become one of the most anticipated titles on the system, and has been 
 delayed numerous times. Now that it's finally here, you can rest assured that it is by far the 
 best Smash game, and one of the best multiplayer games, ever created.
  
  Right off the bat you'll learn that you have tons of controller options. The Wii remote held sideways, 
 the Wii remote and nunchuk, the Wii Classic Controller and the Gamecube controller can all be used 
 to take control of whichever character you decide to utilize. Plus, you can switch around the buttons 
 to fit your needs, giving you all the options you like and more. This makes for probably the most 
 customizable control set up a video game has ever had, so you can find what feels good to you. 
 Plus, if you're used to your Gamecube controller from Melee, you won't have to bother getting used 
 to a new control scheme.
  
  Next you have the production values. The graphics are some of the best on the Wii, which again 
 prove that if effort is put into the graphics, the Wii can look very pretty. It's not 360 level, 
 but it's games like this, Mario Galaxy and Kart, Metroid Prime, and the upcoming The Conduit that 
 show it can sure look close. Even though it's sidescrolling, you can clearly see how spectacular 
 it looks.
  
  Meanwhile you have a fantastic music track. You'll hear all the theme songs for every game franchise 
 involved in the series, new work only for the Smash games, and you'll be able to hear it whenever 
 you like if you choose. Some of it, like Mario's classic theme or the original Hyrule Field Theme 
 have never been orchestrated before, making for a great new musical experience that shows off some 
 serious effort.
  
  Everywhere the game shows that it's not just a cash-in on how big the franchise has become by adding 
 in better graphics and a couple characters. Tender loving care was put into every moment of its 
 development, so the delays were well worth it.
  
  You'll hit a total of 35 characters, unheard of, even for Smash. These include the obvious Nintendo 
 franchise characters, like Mario, Link, Samus, Fox, Kirby, Pikachu and Captain Falcon, but there 
 are also a ton of lesser known ones. Olimar from Pikmin makes his first appearance. The Toon Link 
 from Wind Waker is here. R. O. B., the original Nintendo from Japan disguised as a toy, is now a 
 character. Ice Climbers are reappearing, who have been in a total of one game. Pit from Kid Icarus 
 is new to the table, and had two games a long time ago. And you'll have plenty of big characters 
 that just haven't had a crack at the game: Wolf and Wario are notable.
  
  And then you have, for the first time ever, characters from other companies. They stuck with two, 
 since the main focus is still, fortunately, Nintendo. But Sonic, the character people wanted in 
 Smash the most from other companies, is there as the fastest character in the game. And meanwhile, 
 because the devs of Smash and Metal Gear Solid are pals, Solid Snake is in there as one of the 
 toughest but slowest of them all.
  
  Now you have the different modes. Arcade mode, from the first game, is still intact. Adventure 
 mode is now replaced with Subspace Emissary, with an actual story and cutscenes to go with it. 
 Plus, a second player can come in at any time for co-op, and you can go back to past levels to 
 do them better, and playing it the whole way through unlocks tons of characters. Event matches 
 are still around, for zany, random battles. And then, of course, is the multiplayer.
  
  This is where Brawl, obviously, shines out the clearest. You have your straight up battles, timed, 
 or with coins or lives or whatever you like. You have team battles, computer players, tournament 
 mode, custom battles... The list goes on. You can do just about anything in multiplayer and have 
 a blast. You can choose what items you don't want to appear, and you can even make it so when you 
 hit someone, they die no matter what.
  
  Smash Balls, for that matter, are one of the biggest additions in terms of items. There are other 
 new ones, and all the old ones are still there, but Smash Balls, when hit enough, go inside your 
 character, and produce a different effect for each one. Samus will unleash a massive beam of energy, 
 that kills just about anyone, but will then turn into Zero Suit Samus, as her armor runs out of 
 energy, and will need to get another Smash Ball to get the suit back. Kirby, on the other hand, 
 will put everyone nearby into a cooking pot, stir it up, and send everyone flying out of it, on 
 fire, with tons of damage done to them. Plus, food items will pop out along with them. These attacks 
 often kill your opponents and make it well worth hunting down the Smash attacks.
  
  Now you have trophies you can buy and make a big collection of with the coins you'll get through 
 battles, unlocking new characters, stages, and music as you go, and you'll get new blocks to make 
 your own stage. These are tons of fun to make, as you can make it as dangerous, big or small as 
 you like. You can put platforms wherever you choose, which can move up and down, make patterns, 
 everything. You even get to pick a song to go in the background, and you can then show it off to 
 your friends by playing in it in multiplayer.
  
  On the downside, you can't show off those stages in Wi-Fi. It's awesome that the game actually 
 has Wi-Fi, but it suffers from Nintendo's Friend Code system, which no one likes. Friend codes 
 are the kid at the table that has no friends. Without friend codes there's only one mode available, 
 a two minute battle with random people who join in too.
  
  With friend codes, it's a different story, thank God. You have the opportunity to pick what kind 
 of battle you'd like (team or melee, stock or time, tournament) , and customize a whole lot more 
 what kind of battle you want. You can't chat, since the Nintendo Speak deal coming up wasn't released 
 at that time. Still, it's good that it's in there and they did their best with what they had in 
 Nintendo's set up.
  
  Now as for the problems... Subspace Emissary is a massive improvement on what's come before it. 
 There's a legitimate story tying everything together, you'll be using every character by the end 
 of the story (except one) and playing through tons of levels. But there's a lot of unnecessary 
 platforming in there, and straight up battling is a lot more fun than the exploring is, by a long 
 shot. That's what Smash was made for, and it can't seem to overcome it. Still, it again shows effort 
 that everything that's there is there. Maybe sometime soon we'll see some truly wonderful single 
 player from the series.
  
  Some of the higher difficult levels are nearly impossible for all the different stages though, 
 but other than that there really isn't much to complain about otherwise. You'll get hundreds of 
 hours of gameplay from the title, at first tons and tons of it to unlock things, and then a casual 
 play every now and then afterward. The production values and sheer detail in there is through the 
 roof, and despite those minor nuisances, Brawl is probably the best Wii game this year. It's definitely 
 a must buy, as Smash always has been, for it's absolutely spectacular multiplayer experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IcemanBryan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is one of the most revolutionary games of all time. It has amazing graphics, 
 as well as game play. Here are the pros and cons for the game.
  
  Pros: -Amazing game play
  -Get more than you pay for
  -Tons of music
  -Decent graphics
 
  -Good character roster
  -Great sequel
  Cons:
  -Online play is a bust
  -Gets boring after a while
  -Level editor is not as good as i thought.
  
  Besides it's laggy 
 online play and it's lame level editor, overall Super smash Bros. Brawl is a great game. Online 
 play is actually OK if u play someone in the area. Definitely a keeper. I definitely recommend 
 it. What are you waiting for go buy it! GO! GO! GO! (unless your rent it first)
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  ignore this, i just need more words for the review
  
  p. s go buy it XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juliusmysad
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 3:02 am PT
Review:  As game, it's great. However it fails ever so hard as a fighter. Now don't get me wrong, I'm a 
 massive smash bros fan and i must have spent a countless number of hours playing it (140 *cough*) .......
 
  
  The story line isn't really much, however it's quite fun to play and will keep you busy for a while. 
 The nultiplayer is crap, and i'll tell you why later. The events are sort of pointless, but you 
 do them anyway for the sake of it. But lets begin to discuss it's flaws......
  
  Brawl is only a good multiplayer between to experienced player, and even then its boring cause 
 the better player always wins. Multiplayer against an experienced player and a noob, will usually 
 result into a random chase with the noob running away from you, trying not to get hit. 1v1v1v1 
 is usually good although it's never ever fair. Thats another problem with brawl, its not fair. 
 You'll be attacking this guy, and then someone else will get your kill. But in general, multiplayer 
 is not that great, not to say that it isn't fun.
  
  One of the main aspects that will keep you coming back to Brawl, is the fact that you can play 
 as your favourite nintendo characters. The problem being that Brawl is depicted to be a competive 
 game, when really it wasn't designed to be. Why? Because the characters aren't equal, and all attacks 
 are based on unequal timing personal skill. It's like the arguement based on Ike being cheap. He's 
 only cheap when your at teh wrong place at the wrong time and manage to get hit by his incredibly 
 slow sword. In fact, he's one of the worst characters in my opinion......
  
  None-the-less, you probably will have a good time playing this game, however there will be a time 
 when you say enough is enough and never play this game again. It's also not as rewarding as playing 
 a Zelda game, or dare i say: Halo....... 
  
  PS: Halo is awesome, and the multiplayer in Brawl is pretty good, although it's not for everyone 
 | (Mainly the people that suck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamuraiRai
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Wii remote, item, stickers/trophies, stage building.
  Cons: WiFi, move selection, story mode.
  
  All in all, an excellent arcade game. This game 
 will be the one that will keep you entertained when you're bored on rainy Sundays.
  
  Pros, as stated above. The Wii remote was programmed in great. It played a vital part, but not 
 so much that it got in the way of the gaming experience. Very nice, not like Force Unleashed, where 
 one movement can be interpreted as another. Although, the 'grab' move, in my opinion, was pretty 
 bad and annoying-but apart from that, great. Items were excellent, providing a nice mix, and a 
 nice diversity of assist trophies and Pokemon. Stickers and trophies concept was nice, but the 
 way to get trophies was TERRIBLE. An EFFING ping pong game or some crap like that. Stage building 
 is nice and provides an interesting pastime as well as a time to mess around with a stage until 
 it was impossible to die. =P. Minigames are nice as well.
  
  Cons, as stated up. WiFi was TERRIBLE. Shabby, underdeveloped, and with the obvious potential to 
 be a lot more than it was. Moves by the characters and the characters themselves were repeats even 
 within themselves. For example, Samus's and Link's grab moves were the same. Disappointing. Story 
 mode was another disappointment. What a bad way to unlock characters. And a crappy story line to 
 go along with, with a random and pointless intermixing of characters. The trophy system and characters 
 needed a lot of work. They should have stuck with Melee's version. 
  
  Minor flaws but noticeable, and in my opinion, a good example of an arcade game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBaybulz
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 26, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  This game is alright. Not good, just alright. They made some improvements to this game, but for 
 some reason it just doesn't seem as good as the last to. The first one was great, the second was 
 good, and this one is alright. I know a lot of you Super Smash Brothers fans will disagree with 
 me, but what I'm saying is true. The story mode is good and long, but after that's done there's 
 nothing left to do in the game. Your better off just trading it in when your done because your 
 not going to get any more fun out of it unless you have a brother or sister, and even when you 
 play with them three or four times it still gets boring. I know a lot of you people are or were 
 reading this review and your probably think this is a load of crap. Thinks what you want, but i 
 still think this game had to much hype from the start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RECON64bit
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  I'm sorry but this game is just average even for the Wii's standards. I really thought this game 
 would be all I needed for the Wii, boy was I wrong. I loved Melee to death so when I heard of a 
 sequel coming out for the Wii I had to get it. It's probably the only reason I bought a Wii. First 
 off, all Melee needed was online, and it would have been perfect. Brawl's online is mediocre, no 
 worst! It doesnt even work! 
  
  Every single game I've played has been slow, and just plain horrible. There are times where the 
 game plays 1 frame per second. It gets that bad. So pretty much this game has NO online, and a 
 mediocre single player. This game however shines when you bring your friends over to play offline 
 multiplayer. Add some beer, and you've got yourself a great party game! I only play this game once 
 a month when friends come over. Because this game really has nothing much to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garrett_duffman
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 24, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  I obtained this game not too long after it came out, with hopes of being a worthy SSB game, compared 
 to its predecessor, melee. i was not happy with it, to say the least. the game itself is the same 
 old thing, you have battles and see who wins, good game right there. what i did not are for was 
 the Adventure mode, or subspace emissary.
  
  Subspace emissary is Brawls cheap way of giving brawl a not so neededStory ", with no real... 
 story, no dialogs, no skill, no nothing. i blew by it in a matter of hours. 
  
  After beating the SE, i was ready to start unlocking everything- oh wait, i look at my roster, 
 I'm only missing 2 characters, leaving me VERY disappointed. I don't know about you other SSB fans, 
 but i liked to i dunno... complete goals to unlock characters, not complete a ridiculously easy 
 adventure mode once. so i go back into SE, and get the last two characters, in which case i get 
 a trophy for, wow... also, i get to see what i have to do to unlock trophies, songs, demos, anything. 
 once again, my work is cut out for me.
  
  the game play mechanics are about the same. the wii remote is no good for SSB, along with the nunchuk, 
 so i plug in my GC controller to brawl. the game runs a tad slower than melee, which throws me 
 off every time, everything just feels... softer, like somebody cranked down gravity and put you 
 in water, i do not care for it. 
  
  visually it looks pretty good, but once again, i liked the worser graphics of the GC version, they 
 looked like video game characters, not some pseudo realistic warriors. 
  
  the sound is good. thats about all i have to say here, big whoop. theres alot of music to unlock, 
 but its... eh.
  
  stage creator is a fun part of this game, that is the only real upgrade i see in this game, i can 
 spend hours making maps to battle on, and i enjoy it.
  
  overall this game IS good, but in the end, people who REALLY liked melee might not feel the same 
 greatness they felt when playing brawl, because it IS underwhelming 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Volt_Storm_7
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Like its older brothers, Super Smash Bros. and Super Smash Bros. Melee, Brawl has that same distinctive 
 gameplay that all people will love. The first baby of the family, Super Smash Bros., was a great 
 game in its time on Nintendo 64. Then the second baby came, Super Smash Bros. Melee, involved many 
 more standards than its older brother, Super Smash Bros., like; forward charge-up Special (B) move 
 and better graphics on the Nintendo Gamecube. But Then, Super Smash Bros. Brawl, the youngest of 
 the trio, set better and up-to-date standards like new characters, costumes, levels, creating levels, 
 and better graphics. But as far as this review goes, SSBB is the best game on Nintendo Wii for 
 2008. It was worth buying and still, like its older brothers, still irresistably fun!!! :D
  
  - Volt_Storm_7 8:45 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xAngelFuryx
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  The game of the year for me. Everything from the character choices to the stages was amazing. The 
 interactive arenas were a big step up for the entire series. The creators really pulled out all 
 the stops when they made it. When the game first booted up I felt giddy as I did when the original 
 pokemon series came out. All in all the graphics were good, the attacks weren't repetitive, and 
 the fun was infinite. After unlocking all the characters I made it a mission to unlock every single 
 achievement and trophy. All of those were gained while I was enjoying myself through the endless 
 hours of playing. I always lose myself when I boot it up and hear the intro start. Of course, time 
 flies and by then I have no time for homework. However, it's alright since the game itself is just 
 that good. Overall it deserves a 10 out of 10 for being the peak of perfection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathblankmind
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2008 1:51 am PT
Review:  Not much else to say, the game play (?) is insane. Incredibly fun button basher, you can easily 
 finish the story mode without really learning the characters best combos or special moves. With 
 plenty to unlock and to do, it makes it easy to spend hours on the game without realizing. It's 
 a girlfriend-friendly game too which makes spending time on it even easier!
  
  The storyline is quite interesting too, obviously not with the PS3 or 360 graphics but it's fun 
 to see all the best characters from Nintendo, and other developers games in one place.
  
  It's awesome at a drunken party to get everyone in a laughing mood. But not restricted to this, 
 this game is well worth the buy and I'd recommend it to absolutely anyone.
  
  What are you waiting for?! If you have a wii, but not this game then you're cheating yourself and 
 your console! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graberph
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game with friends, family in house or online. Challenging and playable for many 
 age brackets. The game also plays well as a single player game and is enhanced with the level development 
 for those who enjoy that component. The sheer number of characters and the variety in their playing 
 styles adapts to any who might enter a brawl. The level customization is nicely done as well. Stickers 
 allow the player to customizer their "brawler" and th homerun derby it is there for old schoolers 
 who found themselves up at 3am trying to beat their last record. Tylenol may be necessary to ease 
 the pain from several hours of explorationand great gameplay. This is a game which will play for 
 hours and hours and may in and of itself draw many others to the Wii platform. It would be surprising 
 to see a negative review for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolicolo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is an awesome game if you are interested in having playing over 30 (yes 30) characters 
 from past nintendo games (some from other companies) such as Mario (DUH!!) , Link (so awesome) , Pikachu 
 (how can you resist a face like that) and KIrby (why mention him because he's the super tuff pink 
 puff) etc. This game also has some awesome stages to play on  
 Hanenbow, Luigi's Mansion, Spear pillar etc.) all of these place are pretty cool but what is even 
 better is the items you use. The you use vary from an all powerful orb (smash ball) to a curry 
 that causes your person to spew out fireballs (superspicy curry) to the peices to assembling ancient 
 air machine (Dragoon parts) . Another awesome part about this game is the trophy collection which 
 holds 100's of trophies which you can find while brawling or playing adventure mode, also can unlock 
 some. The events are fun as well the events are things such as "Break the targets" and "Home-Run 
 contest". Another fantastic thing that the game developers made was the use of nintendo Wi-Fi connection 
 which lets you ply with distant friends, random people or spectate matches (you can also wager coins 
 while spectating to see who might win and you wager and guess correctly you receive the "jackpot") . 
 Also the music collection of this game is phenomenal, you can unlock music by collecting CD's on 
 stages and listen to them on the sound test, the music is from all of the characters worlds and 
 more! Also the last awesome feature in this game is that if you pause you have tthe option to take 
 a picture wherever you paused (Sweet game feauture if you ask me) . The only flaw in the game is 
 in my opinion that it does not take the nintendo Wi-Fi matches that well (Itried to play a couple 
 and they froze after a minute, but that may just be my internet connection) . So all in all this 
 one of the best games that you can play these days (IT REALLY  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seannyboy357
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  S. S. B. B is the best Wii multiplayer game out there, for right now. Brawl has great graphics, and 
 characters. If your new to the Smash Bros. games don't worry, its easy to pick up the controls. 
 If you also prefer the Gamecube controller that can also be used, as well as the Wii remote and 
 Nunchuck, and or just the Wii Remote. The new characters make this game even better, and also the 
 new worlds to play in. Brawl is the best in the series, for now, and deffinatley will be one of 
 my favorites. The create your own level, part of Brawl is very fun to use. The more levels you 
 make the more items you get to use in the createed levels. This is a deffinate party game and will 
 enjoy people of any age. The single player mode uses some puzzles and very tricky level designs, 
 and sometimes very hard bosses enemy's. The storyline is Brawl single player mode is very exciting 
 and action-packed. Overall I give this game a 9.5, and recommend it to whoever own's a Wii. 
  
  -seannyboy357 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cvskater321
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 12:05 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, and im going to tell you why. This is a good game for your family, after 
 a wile the younger kids (5-10) (depending on there maturity) may get ticked when they die after 
 a wile. Well anyway this is a great game cause the combat and maps/levels. The levels may be a 
 great advantage or a disadvantage but this depends how you play. Some levels you can fall off the 
 edge and die or another one is the screen will move and you have to keep up with the screen if 
 u dont keep up with the screen then you'll die. This game has on-line gaming but sometimes there 
 are not people on but they may depend were you live. This game has a great story line it deals 
 with evil takeing over all that is good and that's were the good guys come in like Link, Zelda, Donky 
 Kong, Diddy Kong EXD.
  As you go through your jerney you gain a team to help you out with takeing back what once was yours. 
 I like that fact of all of this, when doing the campaign you dont have to do it with yourself you 
 and your family or friends can play together through it. If you and your friends or family Brawl 
 or team brawl together you can win new characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerc619
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  My review of this game is pretty nice. There is only one thing that can really describe this game, 
 and that word is awesome. The producers were very smart to bring back the series with a whole new 
 twist to it, and the graphics compared to the others are just perfect. Plus, you can play two-player 
 in adventure mode, making it that much sweeter for the gamers. Also, having new characters like 
 Snake (one of my favorites) and Sonic (also my favorite) and others makes this game probably the 
 best game on the Wii. The new levels and old that they brought back are also sweet. I don't think 
 this game has any flaws at all. Seriously though, for those who think that this game is stupid 
 and doesn't try it out first, you need to go see a therapist and find out what you're problem is. 
 And that is my review of this game. :) :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jack4571
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  i had a lot of fun with this game but I felt that it lost it fun factor when I unlocked al the 
 guys you play as I did that not long after finishing the subspace emissary (about 23 hours) I lost 
 interest but my bothers and I have played this game for over 100 hours had a lot of fun wile it 
 lasted but contrary to what my brothers think, it is not the best game in the world. it is a excellent 
 value and a must have for all Wii owners but I think that it needed some character from other game 
 companies, like if they had the prince of Persia in this game I would have no end of love for this 
 game. I also hate the way link has been done in any of the super smash bros games they just tuned 
 him down to suite the other characters I also felt that it was to similar to the old game I know 
 that that it's a little stupid to say that about a fighter because they are all very similar to 
 one another but sill I would have like it better if it was not as similar to the last game as it 
 is 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicBalla
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl may be one of the Best multiplayer game in history of Video Games. The game 
 will provide you with billions of hours of play and will excel beyond your beliefs in Funitivity. 
 
  
  Ok First Off Is the graphics. I wouldn't say they're the best or the worst but they are a little 
 bit underwhelming compared to Nintendo's other games. The game runs alright, I mean loading times 
 vary in length but that's nothing.
  
  Gameplay is what makes this game "The Game To Have". All controls work great and all are easy to 
 use. You can find yourself using one control scheme and then using another one and you'll feel 
 just right, that's how comfortable the controls are. The game is also filled with numerous modes 
 that you'll enjoy. Online definitely needed improvement, it runs horribly about 85% of the time, 
 chances are you'll find yourself playing more local multiplayer then online.
  
  Sound, The music is outstanding. There are like billions of tunes from past Nintendo games, but 
 to make it sound better, they're the BEST tunes in past Nintendo games.
  
  The game will obviously last you a long time, as stated in the beginning. The subspace will occupy 
 maybe 10-15 hours while the rest is upto you and who you play with, which should be many many many 
 hours.
  
  So in conclusion I say that you should buy this game no matter what, if you don't then..... well....... I 
 don't think your the smartest of people... lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: immortalgamer83
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  There are so many great things about this game from the characters to the different stages and 
 even the graphics. this game is definitely on my top 10 list for many reasons. The game is not 
 too hard and if it is you can change the difficulty (I usually play on hard) . I really like how 
 you can take pictures in battle i already have about 70 funny, strange photos. There is no bad 
 thing about this game that i can think of. you can play with up to 32 people in tourney mode, chose 
 different colors for your characters (i like dark link and dark fox a lot) , there are different 
 minigames like home run contest or boss battle and things like events, all star mode and classic 
 mode. the story line is also very good, which the characters dont speak in campaign mode (called 
 the subspace emessary) but it just shows that you dont need dialoge in a game to make it great. 
 And to top of it all there's the final smashes which are great looking and some characters final 
 smashes are very cool and fun like bowsers giga-bowser transformation or links tri-force or Ikes 
 great aether final smash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soul_alchemist0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  As a successor to the popular and beloved melee, it doesn't fall short of anything you expect at 
 all. While it doesn't bring too much new to the series, it makes plenty of old things better and 
 smoother. The character roster sports 35 different brawlers and some even have alternate forms, 
 such as Samus/Zero Suit Samus and the Pokemon trainer with three different Pokemon. You won't run 
 out of direction in the game for a very long time, the challenge board has hundreds of achievement-ish 
 challenges that give you a specific thing to do such as hit a certain length in Home Run or beat 
 story mode on Very Hard mode. Of course as a Super Smash Bros. game it doesn't fail anyone when 
 playing with your friends. This is where it shines its brightest and gives hours of fun as good, 
 if not better, than Halo can. So if your lonely the game offers plenty of things to do and only 
 gets better if you have some buddies around. With the shortage of 3rd party Wii games worth anything, 
 another Nintendo game is welcome any day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MatzeEdend
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Many people complain that this game is simply an updated version of SSB: Melee... in the short 
 run that may be true, but it is still a major improvement over the older ones.
  
  The main focus of this games is obviously multiplayer, but the rather unique storyline driven single 
 player mode is interesting. It combines aspects of classic Smash Bros brawls with 2D platforming 
 and storytelling without saying a word, as most of the characters you play as have been portrayed 
 in their respective games as "silent protagonists". Depending on the difficulty level you choose 
 the single player campaign can be incredibly easy or painfully difficult, with everything in between.
 
  
  Now to the meat of the game: multiplayer brawl.
  
  As with the previous Smash Bros games, Multiplayer consists of fights between up to four players 
 (or one player and one to three computer controlled bots) , however Brawl has added a new aspect 
 to this: Internet play. This is a great concept for a fighting game such as this, and other than 
 the occasionally bad lag you could spend hours online beating the snot out of people from all over 
 the world. As with other online Wii games the level of communication between players is minimal 
 (basically just the name you choose to identify which player you are) , but communication isn't 
 necessary to have a good time.
  
  With the large cast of characters you can fight as (even the fan service ones such as Solid Snake 
 and Sonic) and the fact that no character is an exact clone of any other, you can have hundreds 
 of hours of fun playing as each character and devising strategies for them all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firemblemlordjr
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 16, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  First off, if you have a Wii, and you don't have this game, get it. Now. In my opinion, it is the 
 greatest game ever made. It completely lived up to its incredible hype. You probably know what 
 it's like, but if you don't, its basically classic Nintendo characters "brawling". With good graphics, 
 the greatest video game soundtrack to date, unlimited replay value, tons of custimation, even down 
 to each individual button command.
  
  However, one thing should be noted. The game can lose a little of its luster if you don't have 
 anyone to play with. The single player mode, while intensely fun, can get repetitive if you lack 
 the ability to play against real humans. But if you have siblings or friends or a wireless router, 
 you will be playing this game until your Wii crumbles into dust.
  
  The bottom line is, if you like video games, this is the reason to own a Wii, and you should buy 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OpratorHunter
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash bros Brawl is hands down one of the greatest games for the Wii. The point of the game 
 is a competition between most of Nintendo's mascots in an all out fight.
  Game play: Controls are beyond great, right to the mark. Every move you make with your controller 
 affects your character in a perfect sync. Every character uses unique fighting styles and abilities 
 which gives you plenty of options to choose a favorite that suits you. You have different fighters 
 from heavy to light, normal to strange. You can have your own name and records added to the game 
 which is awesome to have in writing when you beat a friend. Brawling can have never ending battles, 
 each with different custom rules and game play modes. You can have a fight range from one to four 
 players. Each fight is on a stage, where you fight with the intention of knocking the other player 
 out of the screen. The game play is just never ending.
  Graphics: the game has incredible graphics and I consider the quality among the best for the Wii. 
 All characters are designed wonderfully with much detail. In some of the videos, Mario's visual 
 quality matches that of Mario Galaxy. Stages are awesome looking.
  Sound: Almost every single music sheet available from most Nintendo games can be found and unlocked 
 in SSB. You have a wide selection of music, from classic favorites like the Mario Brothers to The 
 Legend of Zelda or Metroid. Sound is by far great, and can be customized to be listened to in any 
 stage.
  Extras: Unlockable content every where you turn. You can find trophies, stickers, music, hidden 
 characters and more... Other features include a new custom stage builder. This is nice and is used 
 to build your basic stages. Each attainable trophy you collect also offers a detailed description 
 of the award. (A trophy of Kirby will give a description of him.) There is also online play. You 
 can battle friends who own the game from distances or play random people from all over the world.
 
  Super Smash Bros Brawl is more then a fighting game. It's a game that brings a collection of all 
 Nintendo's characters together and makes them shine.
  This is a great multiplayer game and one of my favorites.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quinzark
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  And the award for best multiplayer game of this Gen' of consoles goes too. *drumroll*
  
  Seriously though, i have played a lot of games in my 18+ years as a gamer (Flash back to tetris 
 on old Dos-PC) & the last game i enjoyed this much in multiplayer was Smash Bro's Melee. 
  Each stage is uniquely fun & frantic, each charicter has strengths & weaknesses which can be exploited 
 by the player. Every weapon can be turned on or off to suit your preferences. The create a level 
 allows you to make your own arena to brawl in. One guy I seen on a youtube video used it to propose 
 to his girlfriend! How many games can get you engaged?
  So whats the catch? whats wrong with it? 
  I don't know. Other than some of the charicters being 
 less useful than others I haven't thought of any flaw with this game. The only thing that comes 
 close to a problem is that the story is much easier in single player than multiplayer. But when 
 there's two of you then why aren't you kicking each others a**
  Just writing this makes me want to play it again. I think I'll pick Link again & fight a team of 
 that DAMNED MOUSE! 
  
  Oh & If you see Yoshi around tell him it still creeps me out when he turns me into an egg. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manhunt92
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2009 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is simply one of the best fighting games of all, if not the best.
  
  The good:
  - Multiplayer it's a blast.
  - You can know kick some ass online
  - A LOT 
 of extra things to do
  
  The Bad:
  - Poor Build-Stager
  .
  
  Graphics: Limited to what the Wii can do, but they're just right, cartoon-like, smoother, better 
 in any ways.
  
  Sound: excellent, all the music from nintendo is here.
  
  Gameplay: Same as the previous, but better. Improved, the inclusion of the final smash, new stages. 
 . 
  
  Replay-Value: believe me, Super Smash Bros Brawl will keep you really bussy for a long time, with 
 various game modes, a story, trophies and stickers to collect, characters, wi-fi battles etc, etc, 
 etc.
  
  
  To resume:
  This it's just the next installment, and yes it keeps the same formula as Melee, but that won't 
 stop you from having a great time alone, or with friends. Is games like these that keep the Wii 
 shining, SSBB is a must-own for every Wii owner, really.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  In the game you can play as your favorite Nintendo characters plus Sonic and Solid Snake. There 
 are more characters and more stages with stage builder you can build your own stages to battle 
 on. You get more stages when you accomplish stuff at this thing call the chart. The chart lets 
 you unlock trophies, stickers, and CDS that you can't find on the stages or in Adventure mode. 
 The CDS get you music from the Nintedo Tracks. The stickers are also a new feature you find stickers 
 on the stages and by doing some stuff on the chart. The stickers have a design from Nintendo characters 
 and other figures in games. The trophies are clearer and brighter to look at and you can get more 
 trophies then the first two. 
  
  The games graphics have evovled a bit just like the stages. Like some stages in the game they move 
 in the background. Classic mode is alittle different then in Melee you versus against the same 
 characters or categories as you did for the very first time you played Classic mode. The All-Star 
 mode is just like the one in Melee but you only versus against one characters or character in the 
 series. The line that you see when you do unlock all the characters and do play All-Star mode is 
 when the series was created. The Adventure mode is alot different then in Melee because there is 
 actually a story in it and all the characters are in it. 
  
  Some other new features are playing some classical title demos like the Legend of Zelda Ocarina 
 of Time and F-Zero for the NES. You can only play up to eight of them. The other features are coin 
 blaster and pics the coin blaster you shoot you coins that you have at trophies and you try and 
 get some trophies. The pics are when you choose a background and your trophies are in it and you 
 take a pic with them in it. The last thing is new Pokemon in the stages. There are new pokemon 
 in the game that can help you win.
  
  The good of the game is that the stages and the graphics are amazing. The soundtracks are really 
 fun to listen to. The game has a bunch of new features.
  
  The bad of the game is that Wifi takes forever to find someone.
  
  OVerall this game gets a 
 10 outta 10 and it is a must buy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scootergogo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl (SSBB) is one of the best wii games ever. I love playing it by myself and 
 with friends and family. SSBB is the best game out of the Smash Bros series. I have played this 
 game several hours and I keep playing more and more. I love how there are many characters and many 
 stages. I also like how they brought back some of the old characters and stages. Some of the big 
 improvements is that the graphics are better, the story mode is way way way better, and it is online!!! 
 The graphics arent noticeably different but now they look more trimmed and better kept. There is 
 an actual story! In Super Smash Bros Melee there was no stories. There were just like 8 battles 
 and then you played the same boss over and over. In Super Smash Bros Brawl there is a long story. 
 You can save your story so you dont have to start over everytime. It took me about 16 hours to 
 beat the whole thing. You meet new characters and then you unlock them as players. I thought the 
 whole idea was brilliant! The story was very thought through and it was very clear. I like how 
 you fight many bosses. The story was a huge improvement! The wifi mode made it even better. Now 
 you could play the game forever! You can play people from around the globe and watch and bet on 
 other matches. I played many matches and took part in many tournaments off of wifi mode. I gave 
 this game a 9.5 out of 10 because the wifi was sometimes laggy and that messed you up sometimes. 
 THis is my favorite video game right now. I recommend this game to everyone! THis game is worth 
 every penny! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martingalaxy
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 29, 2008 4:42 am PT
Review:  This game has all new characters like Sonic, meta knight, pit, even solid snake! It has very nice graphics 
 and gameplay. There are 35 playable characters in the game. The controls are just ok. The online gaming 
 is very good with sometimes no lag, even with four players! If you just played the game, you might 
 have a hard time in the story mode even though you choose easy. The characters like Sonic and Ike 
 are the strongest characters (exeption for Tabuu) . Without Sonic this game would have been not that 
 good. The weakest characters are Link and Mr. Game and Watch. The real name of the story mode is 
 subspace emissary. Some of the items are assits tropies and poke balls. This items make a character 
 a teamate for a little while. This game is the best wii game to date! Thats why you also have to 
 buy this game! This game is the best! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravin_rabbids
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2008 12:27 am PT
Review:  the game is awsome i just cant stop playing, check out the tournament of it on gamespot fight or 
 flight you cant miss this game its rad its great and no one can ever prove me wrong. the best players 
 are Ike, Kirby, lucas and ness by far. this game has and will inspire us all in a funny kind of 
 way, if you dont but this game i will be your personal polterghiste until you get it, and if you 
 dont even have a wii shame on you oh yeah would you like my friend code who am i kidding every1 
 wants my friend code here it is 0903-4278-2718 worst characters are snake, king dedede, captain 
 falcon and ganondorf indefinately and why do i have to make this 800 words long its absolutely 
 ridiculus man i hate having to do 800 word reveiws so im just gonna ramble on from here on in hi 
 hi hi hih ih ih ih i hi hi hi hi hi h ihi h ih i hi h ih ih ih ih i hi hi hi h i ih i hi hi hi 
 h i hi hi h ih i hi h oho i hihiihiih hh ih ih ih ih ih ihh ii hghi h ih i ih ih ihih ih ih ihih 
 ih ih ihi hi hi hihi hihi hihi hihihihih ihi hi hi ih hiihhi ih ihhihihihihihihhi h ih ih ih i 
 hi hih iihh ihi h i hih ih ihi h ih i hih ihi h ii hih ih ih i hih ih ihhi hi ihh i hihi hih ih 
 ih ih ih ih i hh ih i hh h h 
::::::

::::::
UserName: real-guitarhero
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 4:39 pm PT
Review:  This, my friends, is a game that is almost known throughout our world. First when I heard about 
 it I thought, "Oh Mario... psh". Well that was wrong. No matter what, Brawl is a game for every 
 age and every difficulty level where you can have hours of fun. It is definitley worth your money. 
 This game is especially good because of all the modes. Single and multiplayer. Both extremely fun! 
 All of the different characters from different series. There's Zelda, Mario series, Pokemon, Kirby, 
 Wario, Yoshi, Metal Gear Solid (Snake) , Sonic, and all of those other fantastic games. In total, 
 there are MANY characters, about 40. I still play this game when my friends come over, but sometimes 
 I also play it on solo, even if I finished the adventure mode, there are many other solo modes 
 you can do. Trust me, this game will keep you occupied for HOURS. There is just so much you can 
 do. The graphics are amazing too! On multiplayer, you can choose from all the characters you've 
 unlocked and you've started with and then you can choose out of he 40 stages (total with unlockables) 
 to play on. 1 - 4 players each time, but you can choose a rotation game. I tell you. Get it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raide890
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Not much to say other then great game... I love the diversity of things to do. The music is wonderful. 
 The stages are gorgeous. The characters are pretty well balanced (Sorry Yoshi) . This game has a 
 wonderful immersing story. The main negative is the laggy online multiplayer. The items are great 
 to experiment with and are all really well used in context to the games New/Old feel. I also think 
 that Custom stages are good although they could be better. Also their could be room for improvement 
 (In the form of DLC) . Also graphics leave room for improvement (but what else do you expect for 
 a Wii game) Also their is a pretty strong need for a better trophy system. Not saying the new one 
 is bad. It just could be better. I also enjoy the stickers in the game. they are very fun to play 
 around with and collect. This game really is what Wii fans have been waiting for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vreshifola
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 11, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl (SSBB) is a game whit many sucess, on the great videogame Wii.
  Have many modes to play Brawl, have the Classic Mode-You combat twelve times, against the most 
 diverse characters, sometimes they come giants, or even a group!
  in the final level of classic, you fight with Master Hand (if you play on hard difficult or more 
 and do not use continuous you fight with Crazy Hand) .
  Adventure Mode (Subspace Emissary) you fight whit the Nintendo characters to save the world of the 
 subspace army, sometimes is many difficult, or easy!
  All Star Mode- This mode someonly open with your have open all characters of Brawl, in this mode 
 you fight with all characters of Brawl.
  Have The Events, Stadium and anothers if you play brawl.
  
  In Another Words, it's the best 
 game of the Wii Console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chessmaster1989
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 4, 2009 8:12 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Brothers Brawl is a great party game, especially because you can have fun with it no 
 matter what your skill level is. With that in mind, for anyone who liked serious combat in Melee, 
 you should probably just stick with Melee.
  
  Of the new characters added in Brawl, some are useless, some are decent, and some are just unfair 
 (Metaknight) . The new stages are bogus for any serious players, as they have an annoying tendency 
 to alter and leave you hanging in mid air, or to just kill you outright. The whole idea of ledge 
 guarding, which was a great way to make sure people died in Melee, is gone. One v. one is not nearly 
 as fun, as much of the tactics has been taken out. Button mashing has become much easier.
  
  If you want a game that you can play without much skill, or that you can keep for parties, 
 Brawl is the game for you. If you want a more serious combat game, just stick with Melee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARMonkey57
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  I bought the first SSB game, and I loved it. I bought the second game, I LOVED it, I bought this 
 game... and I neglect my friends and family to progress in it. I really love that it has a story 
 mode, because while kicking A*s is mad fun, it had no real purpose. Also, there are challenges 
 which you try to beat, such as hitting the sandbag a certain distance to win a trophy or something. 
 This game is one of a kind, because it brings all of the best Nintendo characters all into one 
 game. Unfortunately, some characters will not be reappearing, such as Mewtwo and Roy, but they 
 put in many new characters, such as Diddy Kong, Lucario, and Captain Olimar. Overall, I love this 
 game and I would recommend any and all Wii owners to immediately buy one. Yes, you, go buy it RIGHT 
 NOW. Thank you for reading my review and enjoy the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arbiterspartan
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  This is an amazing game. I will rate it on 5 main points.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Do I even have to ask!? It's awesome! It is probably Nintendo's Best game behind Twilight 
 Princess. The graphics are good considering this is the Wii. (I admit I haven't played Super Mario 
 Galaxy yet, hope to borrow it from my cousin soon)
  
  CONTROLS: Easy to learn. Each character has about 10 different moves including the all new Final 
 Smash! Also, if you don't like the 
  Wii's controller layour, you can use the classic controller, the Wii remote by itself, and Gamecube 
 controllers.
  
  STORY: This game has a story, and it will keep you occupied for several hours. However, there isn't 
 anything special about it.
  
  MULTIPLAYER: Are you kidding? It's the best part about the game! You can play against computers, 
 with up to 3 of your friends and online! And don't even get me started on the characters. There 
 are 35! Including some of your favorutes such as Link, Luigi, Ganondorf, and even Bowser. 
  
  LASTING APPEAL: Definitely. I've finished the story and are still playing.
  
  Bottom line, 
 if oyu have a Wii and are a true gamer you will BUY SUPER SMASH BROTHERS BRAWL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super-Poke-Bros
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is AWESOME! It features about 50 characters, each with different abilities. It also features 
 the new Wi-Fi mode. Which means you can not only play with yourself or with a friend, you can also 
 challenge the world online! The main new characters are Wario, Meta Knight, Sonic, Snake, and Zero-Suit 
 Samus. Because of it's many unlockables, and somewhat hard difficulty. Be warned that you might 
 be addicted to this game for a while. I myself have been addicted to this game for a while. There 
 are so many modes in this game, it's endless! You can make up your on rules, you can battle in 
 unlockable boss mode, or comepete in endless mode by batttling endless little drones. This game 
 puts the rage in outragous in conclution: If you like Nintendo, you'll LOVE this game. I give this 
 game a 9.99. It doesn't deserve that 0.01 point because of bad storyline. The story doesn't make 
 sense. Other then that this game gets an A+! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirbyrox21
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game ever! The characters are awesome! My personal fave is of course Kirby. There 
 are even characters outside the Nintendo Universe! The Subspace Emissary has a great story. It 
 is pretty fun, but not worth playing through again. My fave boss is probably Rayquaza. The stages 
 are awesome. They have melee stages they even have this thing where you can make your own stage. 
 My fave is spear pillar. The music in this game is just spectacular. The best is the Pokemon music. 
 My fave is Team Galactic Battle. Classic Mode is pretty cool. especially when you get to battle 
 Master Hand. The All stars trophies are really cool. All stars its self is really cool. Special 
 Brawl is amazing there are thousands of combinatons. But the tourney is the best in the whole game. 
 And the Wi-fi helps. So if you don't have a wii make it your first game on your shopping list. 
 Make Brawl your second. Anyways, I give this game 100,000,000,000,000,000 stars. And that concludes 
 Kirbyrox21's Brawl review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicdude123
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 7, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  we all loved melee with all the fun stages and awesome characters and controls but lets forget 
 about melee and move on to a better game brawl it has amazing graphics the best the amazing wii 
 can handle such great controls you can choose between the single wii remote (recommended) , the wii 
 remote and nunchuk (not good) , the gamecube controller (recommended) and last the classic controller (never 
 ever use) .
  the gameplay on brawl is slightly similar to melee but nintendo have made it more smoother and 
 better so you will not have as much unfair deaths and they have made up to 35 amazing characters. all 
 the arena's are perfect based on old and new nintendo games.
  im so glad they made this game and my favourite character of all time is in this game. SONIC THE 
 HEDGEHOG!!!!
  Sonic is no doubt the best character in the game.
  this game is worth any price run to the store and get your copy NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fredfredfred22
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  i thought this game would be good but is very easy and gets boring. it's the only thing i play 
 though. the game could be beaten in a few hours and with out another person it gets boring it's 
 also pretty glitchy witch makes it more fun. i wish it had more characters and mor stuff to do 
 other than storie mode. the mini games are fun but chalenges are anoyinng. stickers are power ups 
 which makes the game better. once you beat every thing the only thing to do is brawl of wifi with 
 friends. in wifi play is very limited and you have to pick your chat before the match and you can 
 only do brawls and home run contest with coins you can bet on matches and try to play a coin minigame 
 where you shoot stuff to get coins and stickers. you can also get demos of old games and see when 
 some games come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xander925
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 5, 2008 10:46 pm PT
Review:  This game may be the biggest accomplishment ever. The game has a good substance and if you have 
 a friend who has the game you can play online. The charecters are a good variety and you can`t go 
 wrong by getting this game. Unless you don`t like cartoony fighting games. This is the one of best 
 games of the year. It should have a reward or something. The charecters include but are not limited 
 to: Wario, Pokemon Trainer, Samus (Zero Suit Samus) , Mario, Luigi, and the classic Link. The pokemon 
 include squirtle, ivysaur, and charizard. The stages are pretty cool. If you can, pay attention 
 to the background. They have some pretty cool effects. The game also has a cool stage builder feature 
 where you build your dream stage. I unlocked the charecters all in about 2 days by playing the 
 new story mode. This is by far the best game for the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blockie123
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Does it live up to Melee's awesomeness???... no. Boohoo. This game is great but the razor sharp 
 combat of its predecessor is gone. It seems a bit... slower... and... more... drawn... out... This 
 game has so much content to offer though. If you look at the treasure screen... there must be 500+ 
 unlockables in total. Wow... that is a lot of crap to unlock. 
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Sound: 10/10 (Crapload of music)
  Gameplay: 8/10 (Melee was better)
  Value: 10/10 (SO MUCH 
 STUFF)
  Variety: See above!
  
  Besides having lots of unlockables, there are lots of characters to unlock. All of them play great. 
 Enough so that you might just want to put RANDOM CHARACTER on. The Subspace Emissary is really 
 long but gets dull after repetitive missions. Another major gripe about this game is unlocking 
 characters. The best way is to play through the Subspace Emissary. Now you don't have to look for 
 secret ways to get characters. Only 3 have to be unlocked this way... Toon Link, Jiggly Puff, and 
 Wolf.
  -Blockiereviews 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paalkaaran
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 4:26 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome. You can play brawl, you can train in training, do events, play up to four 
 players, play on wifi, play on a story mode, (known as Subspace emissary) , or create your own levels. 
 You can play old versoins of other Mario, Kirby, Pikachu, Donkey Kong, Samus and all types of other 
 game, create your own levels, change controls, trophies to unlock, coins to get, stickers for subspace, 
 and 35 characters in all. BUY THIS GAME! IF YOU LIKE FIGHTING Brawl is compatible with 4 different 
 controllers. There are not only Nintendo Characters in Brawl, but 2 third party characters have 
 also come into brawl. Brawl is not only one the greatest fighting games created by Nintendo, it 
 is not only the greatest fighting game that was in the Super smash Bros. series, but it is one 
 the greatest games created of Nintendo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xx51LLYR4BB1TxX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  To start off this is the best super smash bros off them all the graphics are just so nice to look 
 at it has a amzaing amount of charcters from nintendo and also sonic and solid snake like the most 
 awsome thing about this game. The game has a very good soundtrack from all the ssb out and a nice 
 selection of songs from each characters series the new ssbb soundtrack is also in the game of course 
 and it it nice. Now the game play of the game is just like all ther ssb only for this one you can 
 use 4 sytles of controllers it is highing recommened to just use the game cube control the wii 
 control is not that great for the game its just too hard to use for this type of game. theres also 
 the new addtion of final smash its really fun to us but the iroing thing is if you set it up in 
 the items when it pops up every body will just start to run for it so it gets really iroing and 
 bascally the winner will be the one who can get the most final smash balls and some final smashes 
 are just too good and powerful. The game also has online which is a great addtion to the ssb series 
 finally a real sonic vs mario battle its very fun. The only thing i can find bad about the game 
 would have to be the story line dont get me wrong the cutsceens for the story mode are just amzing 
 and there are so may too the most cg cutscreens in any nintendo game so far but the story line 
 is just plain and goes way too fast its too fast paced. Over all who ever is a fan of the ssb series 
 will love this game its just amzazing fun has great characters to chosse from music and the 2 characters 
 sonic and solid snake are just awsome to have in the ssb series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ecusoccerdude
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is 100% awesome! Graphics: 9.5/10 The graphics are totally amazing! Although some of 
 the stages have bad graphics they're meant to be that way ( Hanenebow, Mario Bros., and 75 m ) .
 
  Game play: 10/10 This game makes fighting like this actually fun.
  Stages: 10/10 Some of the stages are cool some are not (but that happens in every game) . Whats really 
 cool is you can make your own stages. Although its very limited at first its very fun to play stages 
 you made.
  Characters: 9/10 Its true that most of the characters are cheesy they're all still kinda cool... 
 I guess. But I'm still kinda sad-ok really sad that you cant make your own character! HMPH!! 
 
  
  So over all you cant get better than this. If your looking for a great multiplayer game or just 
 want some fun than Super Smash Bros. is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzyking
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is a buy, practically because there is nothing else really this good on the wii. The 
 game is good with friends, but alone, it really sucks. The target test is different, which i hate. 
 The items are nicer, but get old eventually. Online is cool, except for no freaking voice chat. 
 
  
  Graphics are pretty good. Not as bad as everyone says. Its a much better improvement from the gc 
 version.
  
  Sound: is freaking cool. orchestra just makes everything sound cool.
  
  Gameplay: Nice a fluid. The gamecube controller is so much better than the wiimote. 
  
  Just 
 go buy this game. Its a must buy even with this score. You'll have fun with friends, but that's 
 about it. I would give it a higher score, if i was playing more with my friends, but the singleplayer 
 adventure mode is a boring side scroller with no rewards, other than getting characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aires457
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  i've had this game since it came out and i've been playing it everyday since its so fun it ranks 
 highest on my list of favorite games. i have probably played this game for more than 1000 hours 
 i've beaten the whole story mode gotten all the trophies and soon i will set up a union of gamers 
 that will do brawls every Saturday. trust me if you don't have this game buy it!!! its way better 
 than halo 3, call of duty 4 or any other game. some people think that the game sucks because its 
 2d but the 2d fighting is extremely fun. i would rather get this game than any other game in the 
 world. the game has 1 only flaw some characters are too cheap like wolf and olimar oh and did i 
 forget pit with his annoying side b spamming. besides that the game is great. oh and one last thing. 
 sonic is not cheap!!!!!!!! he may be fast but that balences out cause his attacks are weak 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dcm993
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  Brawl is one of the most fun games that i have enjoyed in along time. With the amount of characters, 
 stages and trophies it will keep you busy for along time to get 100% . The multiplayer is the highlight 
 of the game because now it has wi-fi so you can take the battle online and show off your skill. The 
 main story is great with the option to do it in two player you will be able to unlock everything 
 together. There are many music tracks to collect along with trophies whick you can make your own 
 little play set with your favorite trophies. The stage maker is a nice add on if you can use that 
 is. Have fun with it I sure did and even I havent collected all the characters , stages , trophies 
 and music tracks but I havent finshed with it yet im going back in for round two... then three.... then 
 four... maybe a fifth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K-Brad
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome in almost every way period. It is a great game to get some friends together 
 (Considering you have some) and to kick each others butt, or it can stand alone as a one player 
 game quite nicely as well. I actually was surprised that the single player story was THAT good, 
 this game would have still been awesome if the single player was so-so and the multiplayer was 
 this good. Veteran players should be happy (and a little awestruck) with all the unlockables, music 
 tracks, new players, trophies, stickers and a lot more. Now the only couple of down sides I have 
 with game is that... 1. New players might feel overwhelmed at all the tasks to complete and could 
 possibly turn new players off. 2. The SSE was a little to long IMO. And that's why I gave Super 
 Smash Bro. Brawl 9.5 broken down Wario bikes out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roxol
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  THIS, is the game I've looked froward too since before the wii came out! Some say it's disappointing, 
 some call it Melee 1.5. well i think it's the best thing on the whole Damn planet. This game is 
 easy to get all the characters in one blow, and i like it like that! I got all the characters and 
 stages within 2 days of the games release. I have had it from day 1 and i STILL am missing about 
 20 stickers. This game can keep you busy forever. After all you have the Subspace emissary, Brawling 
 "Nasty" Lv. 9 cpus, playing with friends, online, make your own stage and you can always challenge 
 yourself with Subspace intense, event, hard, 3 lv. 9s on you and so much more!! and if you just 
 failed a test FEAR NOT!! Take out your rage on your least favorite chracter on an un timed, no 
 stock match! If you hate oh say, Yoshi (and you better not!) Chose snake and UNLEASH the explosives! 
 So no matter what the situation, if you're mad, or with friends, or just want a good online match, 
 Brawl has it for ya! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josh_3691
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is the third instalment in Nintendo's highly popular fighting game which 
 allows you to beat the living crap out of Princess Peach with Captain Falcon. So can this game 
 live to the hype it has been given, the answer to that is a resounding yes.
  
  This time Smash Bros. has it's largest character roster ever, with a total of 35 playable characters 
 with only a few clones present this time around. Which is a great improvement from the clone fest 
 that was Smash Bros. Melee. Alongside all of the Nintendo favourites this time we have 3rd Party 
 characters making their first appearance in a Smash Bros. game, we get Solid Snake from the Metal 
 Gear Series and Sonic the Hedgehog. Of course this finally gives us the opportunity to find out 
 who is better Sonic or Mario and this time not at the bloody Olympic games. The thing that really 
 shocked me is how balanced all of these characters are, nobody is ridiculously overpowered which 
 that all the battles seem so much more fair, if I was to have one complaint about them it would 
 be that some characters moves can be too easily spammed and this can be quite frustrating as it 
 removes some of the fun from proceedings. One of the problems surrounding the characters is that 
 14 of them have to be unlocked before you can play as them and while this does extend the life 
 of the single player mode it is very annoying when your friends want to play as Sonic and you still 
 haven't unlocked him in the bore-fest that is the Subspace Emissary mode.
  
  On to the modes and there certainly is a lot to do in Smash Bros. and the thing that most people 
 will go to first is the Subspace Emissary mode. Now some fans will say that there never was an 
 adventure mode in the other Smash Bros. games so this is a bonus but if it is a bonus it's a pretty 
 crappy one as the Subspace Emissary is boring. First off though lets get the praise out of the 
 way, the Cut scenes are beautiful and can be quite funny to watch, it gives you the chance to play 
 as all the characters so you can learn their move sets and the Boss Battles are entertaining. The 
 main problem with the mode is how repetitive it is, and if any of you played Sakurais' early Kirby 
 platformers you'll know they were fairly uninspired games, so why allow him to see over this. All 
 of the levels are pretty much the same with a different backdrops so you just run and jump from 
 door to door until the end of the level that's it, there is never any innovation, no difficult 
 parts and the enemies obviously want to get killed considering how easy they are to beat. On top 
 of that the controls don't lend themselves to platforming and it all feels to fiddly, like it was 
 an afterthought. On top of that when you finally get to the last part of the game after 7 hours 
 of monotony it tells you to do it all again and by this point I was losing the will to live. Re-tracing 
 your steps is never a good idea in Video Games it gives the impression that the Design Team have 
 run out of ideas, it's one of the things that annoys me about Metroid, the reason Devil May Cry 
 4 isn't brilliant and why I can't be arsed to finish Silent Hill 4. This game is no different and 
 the only reason I did it was because I wanted to unlock Sonic the freakin' Hedgehog is that such 
 a crime Sakurai!
  
  Still the game is still chock full of less tedious modes such as Classic, Sandbag, Multi-man Brawl, 
 Boss Battles, Coin Launcher, Regular Brawl and many more that it makes up for the Subspace Emissary.
 
  
  The other great thing about this game is how much there is to collect you have Trophies and Stickers 
 of various Nintendo characters some of which are quite obscure which only die-hard gamers would 
 remember and some of them are taken from the Elite Beat Agents which automatically makes it Epic! 
 As well as that you have music to unlock from all the characters series, including some really 
 great tunes that you may have forgotten along with all the classic stuff, it all adds up to a truly 
 fantastic soundtrack. There are Bonus Stages to unlock as well to fight on, all set in places from 
 characters games that you will remember with unique obstacles and challenges to avoid while you 
 are fighting. So to unlock everything would take 100 hours of gameplay, probably a lot more. 
 
  
  The Gameplay itself is flawless as it has been since the N64 original with pretty much all characters 
 having a unique moveset and style of fighting so you have Strength, speed, All-round, Good Specials, 
 Good Recovery etc. all to take into account to choose a fighter that suits your style of play. 
 One of the smarter ideas was to have 4 ways of controlling the game including Wiimote on it's side 
 NES style, Wiimote and Nunchuck, Classic Controller and Gamecube controller for those of you have 
 become accustomed to it. This been a fighting game means that anybody can jump in and start Button 
 Mashing and have a good time but there is a lot of depth to the controls for more experienced players 
 to get to grips with. One of the new additions to the fights are the Assist trophies which when 
 used summons a character from a past Nintendo game to help you from Excitebike to Nintendogs to 
 Advance Wars pretty much everyone makes an appearance. Add these to the massive amount of items 
 and Pokeballs you can use and the game is filled with Fan Service. The big new addition though 
 is the Final Smash where you break open a Smash Ball and unleash a special attack that will destroy 
 any opponents in your way and these can be real game winners so everyone rushes towards it. 
  
  The main aspect of Smash Bros. has always been it's Multi-Player Brawls and this doesn't disappoint 
 with a regular 4 man Brawl, 32 man Tournaments, a clever rotation mode and the opportunity to change 
 the rules to the way you want them means that the Multi-Player mode is as addictive as ever and 
 a great way to have fun with your friends (and then lose them when you keep spamming Pikachus' 
 Thunder!) Also on the Multi-Player front this is the First Smash Bros. game to include Wi-Fi play 
 and to be honest it is a bit of a disappointment, first off friend codes are still annoying and 
 make it awkward to play with your friends, the whole thing feels a bit basic with none of the depth 
 of Living Room Multi-Player and it can get quite laggy which in a high speed game like Smash Bros. 
 is very annoying. Plus after the Rankings system put in place for Mario Kart Wii it is a huge disappointment 
 as none of that is available giving you little incentive to play.
  
  A quick round-up of the other aspects of the game include some, nice colourful graphics which are 
 very detailed especially on the Stages, a stage Builder that is pretty good although custom stages 
 can't be played online, absolutely tons of challenges to play through and even some VERY short 
 trial demos of some great past games available on the Virtual Console.
  
  So overall I would highly recommend Smash Bros. Brawl just to be able to bask in the Nintendo Glory 
 of it all and kick Marios' head in while your at it. The game all hardcore Nintendo fans should 
 buy.
  
  Pros
  
  + Flawless Gameplay with lots of hidden depth
  + Fantastic Soundtrack to reminisce to 
  + Perfectly Balanced Characters to play as 
  + So 
 much to do and unlock, you'll be playing 100's of hours with friends or alone
  
  Cons
  
  - Boring Single Player Adventure mode
  - Poor Wi-Fi Multiplayer 
  - Minor annoying niggles
 
  
  Overall 
  
  A few problems stop this from been Perfect.
  
  9/10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterinns
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2008 11:46 pm PT
Review:  Alternatively, if you haven't got a Wii buy one and this game together, it will be the best money 
 you will ever have spent on video gaming.
  
  Anyway, so you wait seemingly forever (17 years) for a game to come along that allows you to play 
 with Mario and Sonic at the same time, and then two come along in the same year! While the Olympic 
 Games title featuring the two icons was a decent enough game, Super Smash Bros. Brawl is in a class 
 all of its own.
  
  Since buying it I have so far played it for more than 350 hours, and I have yet to grow bored of 
 even one aspect of it. Every time you play this game it offers something different, with so many 
 characters, stages, arenas, weapons, challenges, unlockables, single-player, two-player and multi-player 
 modes, etc., etc., etc. It seems entirely possible that this might be the first game in history 
 to have infinite replay value!
  
  I have nothing bad to say about this game, it is perfect in every respect. I'm going back to playing 
 it now. Really, nuff said! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bleux33
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  The game has new characters, stages, new stuff like to trip, bump to walls, and jump on people. 
 The best thing about this game is the FINAL SMASH. In this game there are alot of new items like 
 the Final smash ball, the smart bombs, etc. This game improved its grahics. You can see the difference 
 by looking in the movies. The one that i like about this game is the glithces, i just don't know 
 why. I gave this game a ten because i really liked it. The game has alot of stuff to do and make 
 your own stages.
  
  The game has alot of characters. There is a total of 35 characters, but i heard you can get more. 
 This game left 4 characters from melee. Roy, mewtwo, young link, and pichu, but there is alot of 
 new characters that will cover for those 4 charcters.
  
  If you didn't buy this game yet, go and buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickneo111
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is well worth buying, and after such a long wait for us in NZ, we are still playing it 
 and I don't think we plan to stop soon!
  
  With so many options and choices of what to do, it is hard to stop playing. I know that several 
 times I have woken up much earlier than I usually do, just to play this game.
  
  You've got 35 playable characters, 40+ playable stages (and you can even make your own) , it's impossible 
 to say that there is no variety in this game. In fact, you can even go online on Wi-Fi to battle 
 people across the world, whether they're you're friends or not.
  
  If you have a Wii but don't own this game, like many many reviews say, YOU'RE CRAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAZY!
 
  
  I hope I speak for all SSBB owners when I say, this is DEFINITELY a 10/10 game!
  
  p. s: I did all those A's in crazy to increase the character count. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AuraLine
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  Graphics: The graphics are marvelous in this game, everything is very vivid and colorful, even 
 the retro-style stages wherein it looks like everything is 2D look wonderful. The characters are 
 all rendered very well and the cutscenes are as jaw-dropping and as captivating as ever. The stages 
 are beautiful to look at and probably push the Wii at it's limits. What is amazing though is that 
 the framerate is always steady even if you're brawling very chaotically.
  
  Gameplay: (There are actually four ways to play this but I'm sticking with one and it is the setting 
 wherein the Wiimote is tilted sideways to resemble an old NES controller)
  
  Controls are very basic that even a non-experienced person can get the hang of it. There are basically 
 two buttons to attack and you just have to combine those two buttons with directional buttons to 
 do more moves. The block button (which is located at the back of the Wiimote) is surprisingly very 
 accessible. The object of the game is to knock the other player out of the screen. Unlike other 
 fighting games, there is no life bar here. Instead, you get a percentage system. The higher your 
 percentage, the higher the chance you get knocked out of the screen. This game has a lot of game 
 modes. There's Classic which is basically the Story mode of other fighters. There's All-Star wherein 
 you are pitted against all the characters in Brawl. There's Event that are like challenges and 
 are preset matches. There's Target Smash where you need to break the targets. There's Home Run 
 Contest where you try to hit Sandbag as far as you can with a baseball bat. There's Multi-Man Brawl 
 where you are bombarded with enemies. It is also divided into another set of modes. There's Boss 
 Battles where you can relive the battles you had in the Subspace Emissary. There's Tournament in 
 where up to 32 players can play. It's a really neat feature if you plan to host tournaments. There's 
 Rotation if you're more than four people brawling. There's Special Brawl where you can set specific 
 status's on and there's the normal Brawl mode where you and your buddies can have a very fun time 
 at.
  
  There's also a stage editor where you can create your own stages and share them online. Sadly though, 
 you cannot brawl online with your custom stages.
  
  There are three brawl modes in this game namely Survival, KO Fest and Coin Collector. Survival 
 gives you limited lives. The objective of the mode is to be the last player standing. KO Fest is 
 a timed mode wherein you can brawl your heart out and try to knock out your opponents in a limited 
 time. The player with the most KOs at the end of the match wins. Coin Collector is another timed 
 event wherein you collect coins dropped by opponents when you hit them. You get more coins by knocking 
 opponents out. The player with the most coins win.
  
  The Subspace Emissary is the adventure mode in this game, you can play either by yourself or with 
 a buddy. The boss fights here are very nice and interesting and require a bit of strategy and skill 
 to get past. The platforming however can get a bit repetitive and boring. Good thing they put awesome 
 cutscenes in it or you'd be rather bored of it in less than 10 minutes. Playing through SSE is 
 also the quickest way to get all the characters.
  
  Now, to the actual gameplay. It is phenomenal! It's basically a no holds barred brawl. Friends 
 will really come in handy when playing this game because 4-man brawls are just so fun that you 
 and your friends might have a hard time stopping! It's that fun! What's great about it is that 
 it is friendly for everyone to play and that just gives it plus points. As the saying goes, the 
 more the merrier! But that doesn't mean playing alone is meaningless. There is the Classic and 
 All-Star mode for that. You can also go online and battle with your friends or anonymous people.
 
  
  Sound: This game has one of the best soundtracks ever. There's so many songs in the soundtrack 
 that it's just jaw-dropping. Each stage has at least five or so songs in it and the best part is 
 that you can set what plays more often and what doesn't. Some of the songs will give you nostalgia 
 for they are the original 8-bit songs you hear back when you were young. Some of them have been 
 redone and sound great. Sound effects are killer too. They really bring life to the stage and the 
 character. Voices are also killer. It's too bad though that they don't talk in SSE.
  
  Lifespan: The fact is that this game does not get old. Brawling is so addictive that you might 
 have a hard time putting the controller down especially if you're brawling with friends. There 
 are tons of unlockables ranging from trophies to stickers that will keep you occupied for many 
 hours.
  
  Overall: One of the best games out there. This game alone is a reason to buy the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hjk1999
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  This is no doubt a masterpiece and the best game EVER! Oh gosh when I picked up this game at future 
 shop I ran as fast as I could to pay for this masterpiece. When I got home boy I played and I have 
 never played a better game then Super Smash Bros Brawl. Super Smash Bros was a blast. Next comes 
 Super Smash Bros Melee. Now my favourite game and a lot of others favourite. Have a blast with 
 all three! This is a FANTASTIC GAME! Any Nintendo fan should own this game to throw down a bunch 
 of Nintendo character s like Mario, Fox, Kirby and a bunch of other Nintendo characters. Im telling 
 you one more time Smash Bros fans, Super Smash Bros Brawl is a masterpiece! So get Brawling Super 
 Smash Bros fans! Oh one more thing it's the Brawl to end them all! Melee is great, so is Super Smash 
 Bros Brawl! You guys are all Super Smash Pros! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarryTipper86
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 9:27 pm PT
Review:  I don't actually have this game but played it enough to review it. SSBB (Super Smash Bros. Brawl) 
 is a multiplayer fighter game and the third game in the Super Smash Bros. series. The story is 
 not that good. The story is in a mode called the Subspace Emessairy. There's alien invaders that 
 is trying to rule to world by teleporting Earth into their world. Then the fighters good and evil 
 alike must team up to save the world. The side scolling story gameplay doesn't work for me. The 
 graphics are nice. There's a huge inprovement in some characters. The cutscene graphics are just 
 as good as the gameplay graphics. The gameplay is simple. There aren't really combos because you 
 just press a button and move the control stick for direction. There isn't a HP gauge either. Instead, 
 there's a damage percentage meter. As you take more damage, the more knockback you'll get from 
 every hit. To die, you need to be hit out of the screen. The one player isn't good but multiplayer 
 brawl is my favorite mode. It was the one I enjoyed the most. There's thirty-five characters. Every 
 character is unique and have pros and cons. I think this game was designed to be multiplayer. The 
 problem is that it'll get boring eventually.
  
  Story-6
  Graphics-9
  Gameplay-8
  Enjoyment-9
  Final Score- 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samusarmada
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  Right from the off you can see that Super Smash Bros. Brawl is one of the Wii's most worked on 
 games. The amount of effort that has gone into the games music, presentation, bonus content and 
 general game design puts most other games to shame and makes the likes of Mario Kart Wii look like 
 mere side projects in comparison. Brawls attention to detail is unquestionable but whether this 
 can amount to something that truly advances the series has always been the question director Masahiro 
 Sakurai has had to answer. Fans and newcomers can rest assured however; although what Super Smash 
 Bros. Brawl ultimately is will be discussed on the following pages, what it certainly isn't is 
 a mere graphical upgrade to the Gamecube's best selling title.
  
  Brawl certainly seems to be going for the bigger is better approach when it comes to updating its 
 fighting mechanics. While core play style remains unchanged from its 1999 original, combat has 
 been made slightly slower than melee most likely due to the heavy increase in the amount of bombastic 
 items: Assist Trophies, smart bombs, golden hammers, dragoons and the much talked about Smash Ball 
 all bring about a far busier play environment than before. Game-breaking this is not however as 
 the series reliant on skill is still paramount with the aforementioned items all being avoidable 
 if the player can wield their characters positioning correctly.
  
  This ever-changing dynamic of the player's movement extends to the stages themselves. Manic stages 
 have always been staples of the series but here they are truly brought to their forte with features 
 such as stages inverting on themselves, stages progressively moving forward in a perfect replication 
 of the first two levels of Super Mario Bros. stages issuing warnings prompting a mad dash for a 
 single secure platform as a tidal wave of lava encapsulates the entire stage, and even stages with 
 their own active weather systems that affect the fighters speed on certain platforms. The Pictochat 
 and WarioWare stages are particularly ludicrous; somehow managing to make their respective settings 
 work in a fighting game (the WarioWare stage even manages to make its micro games actual challenges 
 that produce rewards if completed rather than just changing sets of environmental hazards) . Those 
 purists who prefer Brawl's fighting mechanics solely can rest easy knowing that both stages Battlefield 
 and Final Destination are available from the start. Franchise favourites have also been updated, 
 Brinstar's reinvention in the form of Norfair has already been mentioned but others such as the 
 Pokmon stadium and flat zone have all been updated where appropriate. Sadly, Melee's horrible 
 Icicle Mountain has found its way into Brawl with Donkey Kong now bearing the sad burden. Some 
 of the series' classics such as Corneria and Hyrule Castle have remained untouched and are accessible 
 in their original melee forms.
  
  One of Brawls most intriguing features was its own level creator. Such a feature seems needless 
 considering it would be nearly impossible to match the creativity of the packaged stages and with 
 the options available it is impossible to do so. It is a welcome effort to try and improve the 
 games longevity and the online service where you can receive a player created stage per day (which 
 replaces that of the one you last downloaded from the system) is a valiant one, but the creator 
 itself is very basic and combined with the lack of options leaves it as one of Brawls most underdeveloped 
 toys.
  
  The final part of the trilogy of features that make up each smash battle is also its most important-Brawls 
 character roster has been bulked up to 39 combatants, the largest and most diverse the series has 
 had so far. Though this isn't the fifty or so some internet screenshots dreamed of the list of 
 characters is so comprehensive that you feel that not many more characters could be added. The 
 diversity of the line up is once more down to the large variety of different character types there 
 are; with the likes of newcomers Diddy Kong and King Dedede producing subtle variants to established 
 fighting types while the likes of the Pokmon Trainer and Captain Olimer have styles unique to 
 themselves. With such a wealth of variety it is still a little disappointing to see character cloning; 
 while the likes of Dr. Mario and Pichu have been removed for this very reason, the decision to 
 add yet another Fox clone as well as Ganondorf's still uneasy affinity to Captain Falcon prove 
 to be slight disappointments. A large number of familiar characters have also been remodelled to 
 allow for further balancing. Samus, for instance, has lost much of the power she had in Melee but 
 compensates for this by the inclusion of speedy Zero Suit Samus. Nice superficial changes are also 
 made with the likes of Marth's move-set now looking aesthetically very different (although functions 
 very much the same) and with the inclusion of highly specialised Ike over former favourite Roy 
 and the gap between the two Fire Emblem veterans is now even wider.
  
  All of this comes together to create one of the most outrageous party fighters of all time and 
 one that has dominated the local multiplayer scene for almost ten years now. In an attempt to branch 
 out this system of play even more globally Nintendo have included online multiplayer. Unfortunately 
 their efforts in doing so have been very half-hearted. Still wrapped around their "Family Friendly/Family 
 Safety" blanket that has dominated their marketing campaign as of late-Nintendo have provided Brawl 
 with an online service that is bare-bones at most. Simple 2 minute matches are all that are available, 
 with no location filtering or player information being available. The lack of league tables or 
 any kind of online tournament feature makes things most disappointing and considering online multiplayer 
 was all that most Smash fans wanted from a sequel, it is disappointing to see this one wish granted 
 to such a poor standard. Fortunately, Nintendo's infamous Friend Codes seem to be the ironic saviour 
 of this system-should you opt for a friend code match then the options swell to what you would 
 normally expect. Lag can persist however-dangerous for a game of this genre and; be it by the lack 
 of headset or any real text chat ability but the feeling of sterility found facing your buddy online 
 without the ability to truly communicate (trash-talk) him or her is very apparent. It is here that 
 you start to realise that online perhaps never would be a big factor in the Smash Bros. equation. 
 Lacking as it is, the most surprising thing about Super Smash Bros. Brawl online mode is not how 
 poor it is-but how indifferent you feel about it being poor.
  
  On the other side of this equation, perhaps in an effort to try and give some rhyme to this mayhem, 
 Nintendo have created a full story mode including all of Brawl's main characters. The mode, entitled 
 the Subspace Emissary feels much like a continuation of Melee's Adventure mode but with added cut 
 scenes, end of level bosses and an overarching storyline. For those unfamiliar, the Emissary takes 
 the form of a side scrolling beat-em-up; with enemies ranging from franchise bad guys to fanciful 
 new creations (boss battles also have such a range) . The mode retains Brawls control scheme and 
 its health system and the shift in genre creates the erroneous problems you would expect. With 
 movement in Brawl more down to agile flips and fakes the switch to a platformer system creates 
 some clunky moments as your character turns and moves with the weight of a fighting character rather 
 than the finesse of a platforming hero. So for example; jumping feels too heavy and slow, while 
 manoeuvring in the air feels comparatively quick. Though clunky the Emissary is relatively fun 
 to play, especially in co-op and the soundtrack and sticker rewards are often enough to keep you 
 playing through some of the Emissary's blander moments. In a nice turn of events the cut scenes 
 of the Subspace Emissary prove to be one of Brawls most endearing moments. Wonderfully animated 
 and told without a word of dialogue Nintendo's and Konami's characters (and Sega's if you can count 
 Sonics rushed injection into the story at the end) truly show their worth by making even the strangest 
 of stories entertaining. While it would be pointless going into it now the Emissary features plenty 
 of funny, sweet and epic moments as Nintendo's baddies face of against the good guys in some ridiculously 
 over the top battles that nicely heat up as you play through. It even manages to keep you interested 
 when you have to laboriously crawl through all of the games environments once more in a final act 
 of padding that is completely unnecessary. The Subspace Emissary is also the chief way you unlock 
 the games characters (you get them as they appear in the story) . Though this is not the only way 
 to unlock these characters it is certainly considerably easier than the myriad of other goals you 
 can be faced with. The Subspace Emissary may not be perfect, but like much in Brawl; it is merely 
 a drop in a sea of single player and multiplayer content. 
  
  Content that continues to appeal, even today. Though all that is new has been talked about above, 
 the enticement of Multiman Brawl, Target Smash, Home Run Contests and the Event Matches continue 
 to lure you away from basic brawling. The series' Classic single player mode returns as well giving 
 Brawl an unprecedented amount of extra-curricular fighting that puts most games-let alone the notoriously 
 single-minded genre of fighting games of which Brawl is a part of-to shame. Indeed, it even seems 
 overbearing to mention features such as the coin launcher and vault system; ideas small in comparison 
 but still deftly innovating established franchise traditions.
  
  What perhaps deserves special mention however, even in the face of the Subspace Emissary and online 
 mode is Brawls phenomenal soundtrack. It really wouldn't be hyperbole to say that Brawl has the 
 greatest licensed soundtrack of all time, even when released in the same window as GTA4. Covering 
 tracks from every series represented in the game, Brawl has a track list that is beyond belief; 
 not just in the number of tracks covered (a total over 200) but in the source material some of 
 them have been selected from. So tracks such as level 3 from Super Mario Land on the Gameboy, Route 
 209 from Pokmon Diamond and Pearl and Tetris Type B all stand proudly alongside such works as 
 the main themes from Zelda, Mario, Kid Icarus Fire Emblem, The Love Theme from MGS4 and Sonics 
 cavalcade of pop/rock songs. However some of the best tracks come from even more unlikely sources. 
 The delight of being able to hear Mona, Ashley and Mike's songs on the WarioWare stage is balanced 
 by the generosity of having the Japanese versions being available as well. An almost shied away 
 Japanese folk song called Ai no Uta beautifully accompanies the Pikmin stage in both its serene 
 tempo and instrumental accompaniment and don't even get me started on the electric guitar solo 
 Shin Onigashima on the Ice Climber Stage. Indeed, it would be ridiculous to keep listing these 
 pieces because the number of five star tracks numbers well into the double digits; least to say 
 the variety of vocal, orchestral, operatic and electronic music extends throughout the countless 
 titles representing their specific series and it's Brawls defining moment as a game that can unify 
 companies and artists. With the 35 composers contributing including: Masato Kouda of Devil May 
 Cry and Monster Hunter, Jun Fukuda of Killer7, Yasunori Mitsuda of Chrono Trigger and Xenogears, 
 Kenji Yamamoto of Metroid Prime, Tomoko Sasaki of NiGHTS and perhaps most famous of all; Nobuo 
 Uematsu of the Final Fantasy series who gives us Brawls famous operatic opener. 
  
  There are even innovations in the way the game deals with its music. More than 50% of the soundtrack 
 is hidden at first with tracks becoming available (not just by completing challenges but also) 
 by the delivery of CD symbols to Brawl matches and at fixed, constant points during the Subspace 
 Emissary. These function like items, only they are far rarer and disappear from the stage much 
 quicker, resulting in a manic scamper by you (CPU's ignore them but human opponents can pick them 
 up for you) through the already hectic battlefield; it's a high price to pay, but it's almost always 
 worth it. Given the breadth of music available, the game allows you to set the likelihood certain 
 tracks will appear each time you play a stage. Given that some feature more than 10 tracks per 
 stage (tracks are kept with their respective franchise stages, though there are miscellaneous exceptions) 
 then this is a vital and grateful addition to a quality vs. quantity problem that exists in all 
 games-even Brawl. 
  
  As a whole Super Smash Bros. Brawl suffers very few major problems; there are however minor irritations 
 that don't make much sense, as a large number of these problems were not present in Melee. Tournament 
 Mode for instance, has had its max player count cut down from 64 to 32. Target Smash, which once 
 had individual mazes for each character now has one set course per difficulty level. The opening 
 cinema, such a favourite in Melee is now a collection of Subspace Emissary cut scenes and gameplay 
 footage. The replay system, where you can save videos of some of your matches or single player 
 exploits (i. e. home run hitting, or 10 man melee) is limited to matches that only last 3 minutes 
 and the snapshot system is still infuriatingly tight when it comes to changing either the horizontal 
 or vertical points of rotation.
  
  What shouldn't disappoint however is the sizable upgrade Brawl's graphics have received. Though 
 not quite as beautiful as say the likes of Super Mario Galaxy Brawls presentation is incredibly 
 clean and equally charismatic. The wide variety of styles here including Wind Wakers cell-shading, 
 Yoshi's Island Crayola canvas and Metal Gear Solid's militaristic future have all been handled 
 with the same amount of care that makes them all shine and-like the music-no franchise feels left 
 out. Most importantly, Brawls frame rate never drops locally; ensuring that Brawl's fighting is 
 perfectly supported by the best the system can put out.
  
  There are few games like Super Smash Bros. Brawl, not just because of its unique fighting style 
 but because it is a game of almost unprecedented value and dare I say it even generosity. Though 
 the online mode and Subspace Emissary suffer from flaws they are simply not great enough to distract 
 from the overall sense of fun Brawl exhibits from every mode it offers. The guest inclusion of 
 Snake and Sonic (and make no mistake, they were guests. Smash Bros. will always be a Nintendo game 
 so the appearance of such "guest" characters will always be small) only make this sense of fun 
 even greater; and it is on this note that I would like to end this review. At the start I said 
 I would explain what Super Smash Bros. Brawl is, and it is exactly this sense of playfulness, this 
 disregard to conventional game rules that defines the game. Brawl really is a party, in both style 
 and spirit-and we are all invited. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatSTERLINkid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  I like many of you have been waiting for this game for YEARS since its been announced and i believe 
 it was worth it. This game has A LOT to offer, and not a single one of those things are bad! However, 
 this game did need a few "Improvements" but they arent major.
  
  The Good:
  - This game has an everlasting replay value, no matter how old, but to some it's better with friends.
 
  
  - The Wifi mode is a great add for the fact that it pairs you up with people worldwide who actually 
 have a decent connection compared to yours.
  
  - The Subspace Emissionary is great as well, and has a pretty decent length to it (8-12 hours) , 
 but its better to play alone.
  
  -The music in the game is AMAZING, i personally think that Brawl has the best soundtrack EVER.
 
  
  - Following the music, are the graphics, which are actually quite stunning for a Wii game.
  
 
  
  Needs Improvement for Future Titles:
  - The Stage Builder is fun to use, but after building the 3rd map or so, it starts to get a bit 
 boring.
  
  - The Subspace Coop can be pretty frustrating at times
  
  - The Wifi is great, but being about to customize the matches a bit more would be great
  
  
 And as for my review, that's about it
  9.5, but only for its minor flaws
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simianjohn
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 24, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Okay so I haven't got much experience with the other games, but seeing as everybody calls it the 
 best in the series I just gotta take that this was the best nintendo and the ever going mario crap 
 could do. So okay I gotta admit me and some of my friends we enjoyed it in the start. Well after 
 the frist three hours we came to realize that this game is really really overated. I'm sorry but 
 all I wanna do, after waisting both money and time, is to piss all over it. 
  
  Okay so we got multiplayer and single player (wow gues nobody expected that from a fighting game) 
 and they are both pretty awefull. 
  The most stupid must be "the subspace hey lets make all the characters run around, in what must 
 be some skizos' dreams, and lets see some god awefull cutscenes while we are at it every five minuts 
 which you for some freaky reason can't click away from even though they are pointless. I won't 
 comment on it more since I was close to killing myself after thirthy minuts and stopped.
  
  The multiplayer well ehm yeah you can justify it and it will keep you entertained for a bit but 
 after that it all ends up in making six different attacks in a random order and hope for the best. 
 
  
  Last thing I gotta mention is the giant amount of characters. Jesus christ why put so many in a 
 game when half of them are more useless at fighting than a piece of wood. 
  
  My advice would be this don't buy it. Rent it and if you are in to the whole fanboy wankfest then 
 go ahead. Anyone else stay away from it, and at least buy a better fighting game and if you only 
 have a wii well then you are pretty bonned since this is like the only one out there for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tenkuchima
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  The super smash brothers series is a fun series of games, there's no doubt about it. One could 
 say it is the best fan service in the history of video games, and super smash bros. brawl isn't 
 any different from the rest in the series. That happens to be its best and worst quality. Other 
 than new characters and stages, the three big new things in brawl are online multiplayer, stage 
 editor, and the new adventure mode. The problem is that all three of these new features are terrible 
 in their execution. When you play you need to know the other player's friend code. If you don't 
 then every single match is a 2 minute KO fest. You cant change the rules at all, and other player 
 just show up as P1, P2 etc. leading to most online matches having about as much personality as 
 a bot match, only with a lot of unreasonable lag.
  
  The adventure mode is repetitive, monotonous, and just plain boring. Playing through it will unlock 
 all of the characters, and that's really the only reason to play through it. all the levels have 
 the same goal, and same enemies, with the only variety being about 3 different themes for the levels.
 
  
  The stage builder is also a huge let down. There are so many unnecessary restrictions that making 
 the course you envisioned is probably impossible. there's only around 25 different pieces to choose 
 from, there's a limit to how many pieces you can use, and you cant put most pieces right next to 
 each other. Most custom made stages just turn out to be different configurations of moving and 
 stationary platforms, with spikes on the bottom, and the premade stages are far more fun to play 
 than any you could make on your own.
  
  Other than those tree things though this is still an incredibly fun game to play with your friends, 
 and one of the best multiplayer games you can buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: persian_knight
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2008 3:34 am PT
Review:  this game is so fun even to play by yourself but its best points are playing with other people
 
  
  i love this game its fun to play and always keeps you coming back for more
  i like this gaes graphics and the special finishes you use always impress you and the levels also 
 have better ideas then the old ones
  
  and whats also fun is that you can create your own levels which adds in more fun
  
  it story 
 node isnt bad either and keeps you busy for 10 hours and its also fun because your always unlocking 
 stuff while plying through it
  
  the characters are all got their own style but there are some characters that are the same
  
 
  but its still fun
  and nothing will make me bored of it cos its just that fun and will definatly keep you interested 
 for a long time
  its online play is also very good but some matches are slow and a bit rubbish but there are some 
 good matches and if your bu yourself then online play will give you the fun of playing with other 
 people 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diddy101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  Super smash brothers Brawl is one of the series of super smash brothers. Super smash brothers for 
 the nintendo 64 was great. with poligon graphics it still struck me as a game above most. Super 
 smash brothers (or Bros) Melee was my favourite game on the gamecube. New graphics new experience 
 and the controls were comfortable. 
  
  Super smash brother Brawl released in the UK at christmas time. Believe it or not it was not really 
 awaited as much as We expected. But when the game promised fun the entertainment brang more fans 
 then ever. New story, New fun. The only play is slightly Laggggy but it still delievers considering 
 it does not cost any money. the game retailed 34.99 is the best graphics out for Wii and will 
 probablly be the best for a long time. But the graphics are not everything. the controls are very 
 easy to get used to and the wii remote alone, Wii remoted with numchuck and gamecube controller 
 can be used aswell as the classic controller. So everyones happy! Many modes include adventure, 
 classic and games like the idea from Melee, Home-run are available. You can collect trophies (as 
 Melee) and stickers to keep you ocupied if you want to get over 500 trophies and stickers! the 
 characters are fun to play with combining the slow and strong the fast and the new characters such 
 as Solid Snake and Sonic the hedgehog.
  
  This game is a new generation of Wii games and a brilliant release. 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperEmpera
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2008 6:38 am PT
Review:  This is truly a masterpiece by Nintendo. First let start with the graphics and sound...
  This graphics in this game are truly amazing for a Wii game, the cutscenes look great and it supports 
 480p. The sound is the best part, this game has over 250 different songs and with My Music in options 
 you can tweak which songs appear in levels to your liking. With Sound Test you can listen to any 
 song, character voices and even sounds that you while moving around the menu! By far the best Nintendo 
 soundtrack to date. Now for the main part the gameplay. Although the gameplay is slower than in 
 Super Smash Bros Melee for Gamecube it is still pretty fast. Brawl with four of your friends with 
 35 characters at your disposal (37 including the alternatives) and with over 40 stages to brawl 
 in this game is going to last a while. Talking about a long time... That brings us to this games 
 best part, the Subspace Emmisary. The levels are imaginative although some can get boring at times 
 but the actual story makes them fun. The plot begins when Mario and Kirby are fighting in a stadium 
 and suddenly they are attacked by the Halberd and Ancient Minister who have plan to turn everything 
 into Subspace by using these special bombs. The story has a few surprises which i won't ruin for 
 you. There is also a classic mode with 12 battles before reaching the Master Hand Boss Battle. 
 Stadium games include break the targets in which you try to break the targets! Home run contest 
 where you try to hit a sandbag as far as you can. Finally Multi Man brawl where you can try to 
 kill 100 enemys. Boss Battle mode and All star ode are unlocked after completing the Subspace Emmisary. 
 All that seems like a lot of stuff but wait theres more! In the Vault where you can arrange your 
 trophys, play virtual consoles trials like Super Mario Bros. Look at your snapshots and replays 
 as well as your stickers. Now some other features which I don't have time to talk about: Compare 
 your scores with other, completly customize your controls, watch cutscenes from Subspace Emmisary. 
 Now onto Nintendo Wi-Fi connection. This game gives you the options to play with Anyone or With 
 Friends. With friends you can many modes but with Anyone you are limited to Basic Brawl and Team 
 Battle. While you are joining a game you are put in to a waiting level where you can practice on 
 a sandbag while waiting. However playing with Anyone is very laggy and this game would be a lot 
 better if it had a ranking system. So now come the end of my review. I have tried to include every 
 single feature of this game but i have missed a few details. Summary: A perfect game that could 
 be even more perfect if it had an online ranking system. This is the best game on Wii by far and 
 is a must have for anyone. (Fastest selling Nintendo game ever in America)
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rottenliver22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game for years and i grabbed my copy the day it became available at 
 Best Buy. I was instantly impressed with the graphics as soon as i started playing. The visuals 
 on this game rival Super Mario Galaxy. Nintendo payed attention to detail on this game. i could 
 see each individual hair on donkey kong and each little strand of cloth in mario's overalls.
  The gameplay is perfect in my opinion: all the character animation is smooth, the characters are 
 very well balanced. The levels are detailed and unique and can help/hurt you during matches-which 
 adds some extra spice.
  The music on this game is absolutely fantastic! Im pretty sure there are at least 200 very good 
 tracks and you can adjust when they will appear on stages.
  This game has many customization options like creating levels, changing the deflicker, and adjusting 
 all the items. 
  The adventure mode has beautiful cutcenes, great bosses, and stickers which help you customize 
 your characters
  There are only 2 things in the game that i don't like (which I have gotten over with ease)
  1: 
 The last level of adventure mode is kind of tedious and long
  2: The online play is limited and takes very long to find someone else to play with
  
  Gameplay: 
 10
  Graphics: 9.5
  Story: 7.5
  Music/sound: 10
  Overall: 9.5
  
  Buy this game, one of the BEST games for Wii and is worth every penny! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowSonic20
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2008 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Nine years after the original Super Smash Bros. and seven years after Melee, Super Smash Bros. 
 Brawl is finally here and is by far the most anticipated game to come out on the Wii. Fans of the 
 series will be happy to hear that Brawl has taken everything from the previous games and has improved 
 on it with all new characters and stages, an Adventure mode, a stage builder and the ability to 
 play online with multiple players from anywhere! With so much to do in this game, players will 
 be busy for months, even years, with Super Smash Bros. Brawl.
  
  For those not familiar with the Smash Bros. Series, the game is very different from traditional 
 fighting games because of its simplified controls and its emphasis on knocking your opponent out 
 of the ring rather than just knocking your opponent out. The combat system is practically the same 
 as the previous games but this time you can choose what kind of controller you want to use. Brawl 
 allows players to choose from four different control schemes: the Wii-remote and Nunchuk combo, 
 the Wii-remote alone, a Classic controller or GameCube controller. The Wii-remote and Nunchuk combo 
 is used as the default control scheme and takes a little getting use to but is a much better option 
 than just the Wii-remote alone, which is a huge disadvantage for any player. The Classic Controller 
 and the GameCube controller seem to be the best options if available and for those who mastered 
 the controls of Melee will be happy to hear that the GameCube controller button layout has not 
 changed at all, so you should feel right at home with Brawl.
  
  Outside of alternate control schemes, the biggest change to the combat is the Final Smash. These 
 floating icons will randomly appear during a match and will get players to stop what they're doing 
 and hurry after it like fiends. The Final Smash will give whichever player that breaks it the ability 
 to unleash a powerful, screen-filling attack that could ultimately help them win the match. The 
 Final Smash doesn't necessarily guarantee victory, but does greatly affect the outcome of a match. 
 Just like any other item in the game, the Final Smash can be turned off in multiplayer matches.
 
  
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl introduces dozen-plus new characters to the fight including Pit from Kid 
 Icarus, Meta Knight from the Kirby games and Wario. And for the first time in the series Nintendo 
 has added two third-party characters to the roster, Solid Snake and Sonic the Hedgehog. With 35 
 total characters, including 14 that have to be unlocked, I can see why they named this game Brawl. 
 All the characters bring their own unique fighting style and are all well balanced with the rest 
 of the roster. It would have been nice to seen a few more classic characters or for a few of the 
 assist trophies to be playable, but with so many characters already to choose from it's tough to 
 complain.
  
  With new clever stage design and interactive environments, you'll find a lot innovation in Brawl's 
 battles. Some of my favorite arenas include the constantly changing environments of WarioWare and 
 Pokmon Stadium. But I really like the stages that are just plain and don't have too much going 
 on so that the match relies more on pure skill, rather than luck. With so many different stages 
 to play on, the matches always seem fresh. And when you're done experimenting with all the stages 
 available, head over to the Vault and enter the Stage Builder to begin building a stage from scratch. 
 You decide the size, scenery and background music for your stage then place random parts on your 
 stage to add some personality. The Stage Builder is just another example of how much there is to 
 do in this game.
  
  While Classic, Event, and Stadium modes return in familiar form, the new addition this time around 
 is the 10-hour plus Adventure Mode: The Subspace Emissary. Essentially a side-scrolling Classic 
 mode, the Subspace Emissary joins together the entire cast of Brawlers for one giant war against 
 an unknown enemy. A number of impressive pre-rendered cutscenes tie everything together and kept 
 me wanting to play just so I would see the ending. The Subspace Emissary is also the best way to 
 unlock most of the hidden characters as well. Once you complete the adventure, most of the hidden 
 characters will be unlocked including Solid Snake and Sonic. After awhile though, the adventure 
 seems to get repetitive with the same enemies and a lot of back tracking. Luckily, there is a co-op 
 option that helps keep things fresh.
  
  My favorite addition to Super Smash Bros. Brawl is online play. Using the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection 
 players can get online and brawl with players from anywhere. Although you have to go through the 
 hassle of getting friend codes to play with buddies, once you get online it's pretty easy to get 
 a match started. Friend battles include basically all the options of the offline mode, though voice 
 chat is disappointingly replaced by customizable phrases mapped to the d-pad. But playing with 
 random players is totally different. You can't see anyone's name, communicate with them in any 
 way, or customize your match outside of item toggling. You really can't even tell that you're playing 
 someone else and almost feels like your fighting against bots. The only match type available is 
 a "2-minute KO-fest." Sadly, no time options or stock matches are available.
  
  Besides the need for online improvements and a more engaging adventure mode, Super Smash Bros. 
 Brawl is still the game I was hoping for. With extremely tight controls and incredibly fun gameplay, 
 the core fighting mechanics and local multiplayer are nearly perfect. With so much to do in Brawl 
 like playing online, building a stage, playing the Subspace Emissary or discovering all the unlockables, 
 I don't see how this game could ever get old. But in the end, the best part of this game is getting 
 a few friends together and brawling late into the night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kansasdude2009
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Brothers Brawl has a history of being Nintendo's greatest local multiplayer game. Luckily, 
 Nintendo doesn't mess with that history in Brawl, but they fail to add anything else of quality 
 to the formula.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The Good:
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
    Added Characters to Roster. 
    Differentiating the Characters.
    A Boat Load of Stuff to Do.
    Excellent Local Multiplayer Game. 
    Cool Extras.
    Good 
 Soundtrack and Great Sound Design.
    Great Character Models.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The Bad:
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
    Subspace Emissary is a dull romp around an uninspired Nintendo universe. 
    Online has few options, it has friend codes, no voice chat, and terrible lag. 
    Load times 
 are everywhere. 
    Tripping is ridiculous and only slows down the game.
    Several character flaws should have been fixed in testing.
    Most new stages do little to 
 add to the experience.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Introduction:
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl was the most anticipated game on every Nintendo gamers' list. The game 
 was having extra development time to sort out the problems and make sure that it was perfect. Sadly, 
 Super Smash Bros. Brawl feels like a rushed product that takes a fantastic formula, adds useless 
 additions to it, and chucks it at its fanbase for all to buy.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Gameplay: 9.0
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Everyone knows that Super Smash Brothers has excellent gameplay, and Brawl is no different. The 
 premace is simple, take 4 Nintendo heroes and place them in a side-scrolling fighting game. Sadly, 
 the game is plagued by balance issues, some that could have easily been prevented through more 
 thorough testing. One interesting new feature, tripping, is probably one of the most useless additions 
 to any game ever. It's an addition that not only annoys any player, but also, it spits in the faces 
 of advanced players.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Game Modes: Subspace Emissary: 6.0
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  If a game developer creates a fighting system and then wants to use that fightng system in a platformer, 
 you get a bad product. The Subspace Emissary is a bad addition to the Smash universe. Adding a 
 singleplayer that doesn't fit with the combat system is useless unless you take the time to create 
 good enemies that fit the system. The SSE is tedious and it repeats itself which adds to the frustration. 
 Though it has beautiful CGI cut-scenes, it doesn't make up for the terrible design of the entire 
 thing.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Game Modes: Melee Modes: 8.0
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  By Melee modes, I mean Classic, All Star, Home Run, and the others. These are basically the same 
 thing as they were in Melee. Few things have changed other than some co-op features.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Game Modes: Trophies and Stickers and Extras: 9.0
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The collection of extras is incredible. If you want to know about the history of Nintendo, this 
 game is your outlet to it. Trophies are everywhere with knowledge about their character. Stickers 
 give you some great art for their respectable games. The coin launcher is a disappointment, but 
 it's a fun distraction.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Game Modes: Local Multiplayer: 10.0
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Local multiplayer is as wonderful as it could possibly get. Options are everywhere for you to 
 mess around with. The frame rate stays at a constant and it is a marvel to watch as characters 
 and items fly everywhere. This is pure gaming perfection and is the reason why you still want to 
 purchase this game.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Game Modes: Online Multiplayer: 6.0
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  When the Smash Team over at Nintendo decided to put in online, I wish I knew what their vision 
 for it was. Functional? I don't understand how this incredibly hyped multiplayer game could fail 
 so much in online. Basic brawl takes sometimes several minutes to connect with anybody and then 
 the game is usually laggy. Even friend code matches are an annoyance to connect with because of 
 the time limit and auto start. Where is the "cut-off" option? Where is the voice chat? Where are 
 the names? Where are the options? Online in Brawl is almost a complete failure if it wasn't for 
 it sometimes working leading to my being happy. No other online title from Nintendo lags like this 
 game lags. It's quite the feat really.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Graphics: 9.0
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Some of the best graphics done on Wii, Smash Bros delivers a satisfying graphical experience. 
 The character models react with some impressive facial distortion and pizazz. The backgrounds are 
 less impressive, but that is understandable because of the fast paced, havok engine mayhem at hand. 
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Sound: 9.0
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The soundtrack is the most comprehensive soundtrack Nintendo has ever put out, but it is not the 
 best. Several of the arrangements are sloppy and anything that is not a direct copy song should 
 have been redone with full orchestra, when only a handful of titles were. 
  
  On the other side, the voice acting for the title is quite good. Grunts and squeals abound as we 
 punch and kick our way to victory. Sound effects are also a joy to hear. Unrealistic thumps explode 
 from small opponents' fists creating a satisfying feeling. It's a joy to listen to. 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Overall: 8.5
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Super Smash Brothers Brawl does everything Melee did well and very few quality additions were 
 made. Single player is a mess as always despite the time spent on the Subspace Emissary mode. Online 
 is a near waste despite the hype it recieved. The character roster and stages hardly make up for 
 anything. But, Smash continues to be the best local multiplayer game Nintendo has. It's a shame 
 that it can't be added to a constant online library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wswedin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  I love this game. I play it over and over just like the previous super smash bros games, but this 
 time it is different...
  
  It actually feels right, melee just felt a little... off.
  
  I only play this game for 20-60 mins at a time, but, I may do that multiple times in one day. This 
 game is not meant for a 7 hour frag-fest, it is meant for short bursts of entertainment. You will 
 easily get your money's worth out of this game, time and time again.
  
  I have to admit however, in a way final smash's make the game better... but they also tend to ruin 
 it a bit, taking some of the skill away for super powerful hits. The only skill is dodging/avoiding 
 those when it happens.
  
  Another problem... the level editor. It's rather bland, and if you place springs, even level 9 
 enemies (nasty) cannot hit you while bouncing around.
  
  Overall it is a great game, got close to a 10 rating, but I do have a few issues. Sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariofan2008
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  This is my 24th review. Hope you like it. Anyway, lets go!
  
  1. Graphics
  Same Grahics from Melee. I guess you could call them good. No, not good, Amazing! Although there 
 animated, there still great. I think if you like games with awsome grahics, then this is the game 
 for you.
  
  2. Fun?
  ACTION! Swords, monsters, extremely harmful little pink puff balls, (Kirby) kicks and punches, 
 and magic. Sick! What kind of game does such a thing..... Super Smash Brothers Brawl!!
  
  3. Things you should know
  You can make your own stages, there more characters in this then in 
 melee, there are better stages, you can play stages in melee, instead of adventure there is the 
 Subspace Mission, and there are better items.
  
  So there you go. (Sorry if that wasn't enough) PM me if you need help. Hope you like my review! 
 Bye! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agent_skittles
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  I was one of those people who really was excited about the release of brawl. I read every DOJO 
 page that there was, and checked back every day for updates. So, i bought it as soon as i could. 
 It was as good as i had hoped for. The controles seemed well balenced and the action well paced. 
 The stage editor was cool, but lacking somthing. I started to play through the campaign as soon 
 as i started, and at about the third level, i realized what this really was. A horribly long adventure 
 mode. The game just got really boring, realloy fast. Technically, it was a great game, but i just 
 found that there was somthing missing, that even though technically, it was a better game than 
 the melee, Brawl is just more of the same thing, and definately NOT worth the money if you allready 
 have melee. That said, if you think that 60$ is reason to buy a few new characters, a cheap new 
 item (who uses items anyway) , a crappy stage builder, and a new sound when you hit someone, then 
 i guess thiss game is for you, but if you have melee, then i dont think that brawl is a good game 
 for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrandpaFohawk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  I know everyone was so hyped about this game and so was I especially when I heard Sonic was in 
 it and I preordered it and played and played until I unlocked Sonic but after that well it wasnt 
 that great
  
  HITS
  Sonics in it!
  Lots and lots of modes
  Lots of characters items and stages
  Yoshis back!
  Tournament mode is the best mode
  Pretty 
 good multiplayer
  Green hill zone is awesome
  Amazin music
  Smash ball!!!
  Little cutscenes between levels look really good 
  Super Sonic!
  I like takin snapshots
  
 
  and thats itttttt
  
  MISSES
  Story mode sucks and is really repeative
  Graphics look almost the same as Melee
  Stage bulder is really lacking COME ON 3 BACKGROUNDS!
 
  Very Very repeative game
  Very dissapointing 2 me and i traded it in within a couple of weeks
  Barely updated from last 
 game
  Lots of clones
  Only Sega character is Sonic
  I hate Ness Lucas and Ice Climbers
  
  So all in all 2 me this is a huge dissapointment and the next Smash Bros. is probably gonna 
 come out years from now but by then they should learn from what they did wrong by makin a better 
 story and everythin else but most importantly add more Sega characters!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nmjkl22
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  One or the best game best game ever made to date. this game is about smashing your target out of 
 the screen instead of hp they have percentage. The higher one's pecentage is the bigger chance 
 of being ko'ed is higher. So the multiplayer is awesome and the story mode is awesome and the graphics 
 are awesome but let me tell you a bit about the game now. The story is abut all these different 
 characters setting out to defeat evil forces that are turning people in to stone and eventualy 
 meeting up so yeah. Now the multiplayer is called brawl and you can battle head to head locoaly 
 or Wi-Fi and you can play with up to 4 players witch I think is the funnest part ! ! ! ! ! And 
 you can change the difficulty on story or multiplayer! ! ! So this is a must for all Wii owners! 
 !!!!!!!!! So if you have a Wii you gotta get it as fast as you can and all those who alredy have 
 it good for you!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: findgo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash bros. Brawl is the first game in the series that I have actually played (having not 
 owned a GameCube or N64) I'll start with the games biggest downfall: The Subspace Emissary. The 
 only reason I endured this tedious, side-scrolling game mode is because it is the easiest way to 
 unlock most of the secret characters. My two main problems with it are the bad enemy design and 
 the fact that it is way too long. There's not much else to say about that, but what more then makes 
 up for the single player is the multiplayer. Super Smash bros. is he kind of game that you can 
 play again and again and again and never get bored. Four Nintendo characters kicking the crap out 
 of each other, how could that possibly by any stretch of the imagination could that get boring 
 (i'm sorry if I sounded sarcastic) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foundthefloor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  random characters bashing the crap out of eachother on strange levels with tons of bad-for-your-health 
 items... if you don't like it: check your pulse. i've no complaints, i bought brawl straight out 
 and haven't regretted it. i don't have much to say about the game, i have to admit, because it's 
 the same tried and true system of mayhem. that doesn't mean its boring though. i'll instead list 
 my few complaints... the combo's in practice... where do i find out what these are? also the final 
 smash balls (no comment) seem to show up a little too often. in a 2 minute match you can expect 
 to see one, always, and often times 2 floating around. while this is a very cool feature i think 
 that smash bro's is at the point where i need a way to change the chance of an item showing up, 
 instead of just turning it on or off because... too much man... too much. i've only played for about 
 12 hours and i've seen everyone's final smash soo much that i'm sick of them... moderation is often 
 the key, this is a fine example of it. other than that i love playing this game w/the wii remote 
 nunchuck combo... something i had a problem with my first few matches, but once used to relaxing 
 anyway i felt, while smashing luigi's b***h a** off screen i'm sold, someone should've seperated 
 controller's into 2 pieces long ago. w00t. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VelociBlade
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl is good. That's a fact. However, it is not as good as it's predeseccor, 
 Super Smash Bros Melee. For starters, they left out Roy and Mewtwo, two very good fighters. Also, 
 they left out 
  the Brinstar Dephs, Poke Floats, and Mute City stages, which should have been included in the melee 
 section. Also, while the custom levels were a novel idea, there wasn't that much you could do with 
 them, wit hthe space and placement restrictions. The subspace characters weren't thout out that 
 much either, and the AIs suck (I was able to beat my cruel melee record with ease) . Other than 
 this though, it was a step in the right direction for the series, with adventure mode, the unique 
 trophy collecting processes, online play, and graphics. Adding some third-party characters was 
 a good move, but they shouldn't overdo it. The game overall, was something worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heather12072
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  game is tight man now i know some of u ppl say cupple of upsets but im gonna tell u y. every single 
 dang character was in the same game as melee. but if u watch the movies ull see the graphics were 
 improved tremendously. I did not like dis all my friends wer like o i wanna unlok sonic then we 
 all got mad hes like the worst guy in the game. Y in the world would u put a stinkin metal gear 
 solid map in a super smash bros game.
  i thought it was easier to use game cube controllers so all my friends could play. characters of 
 the game are fun. I like how they advertised the characters with new moves and the special power 
 ball wich is tight, ull know wat im talkin about wen u get the game. overall the game is bast out 
 of all the super smash bros. this game can also make u play all night so dont start playin at like 
 10 o clok at night cause ull look at the clock and it sais like 3 in the mornin.
  i am heathers son
  look for more reviews of me bye o and send me a message for questions ill 
 get back to u in the next 3 day 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nedical
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 10:21 pm PT
Review:  I preordered this game with high expectations. As soon as I got the game at the midnight release, 
 I popped it in and was instantly awed. There is too much to do in this game! The online multiplayer 
 makes the Wii Online feature somewhat existant and puts it on the radar. The character modeling 
 is far better than the first two games and the action is nonstop and super addicting! The only 
 thing that I could see as a con is that some of the characters are super easy to play as and kinda 
 cheap when it comes to online battles (Pit, Meta Knight, Marth) . I was constantly put up against 
 these characters and they are highly annoying due to the fact that they have super powerful and/or 
 fast moves and Pit and Meta Knight cannot be hit off the stage unless they are rocketed off by 
 a powerful blow. My friends and I constantly play this game and it is by far the best game to come 
 out on Wii so far. Other than that, I highly recommend this game and it is an instant classic! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jak_two_ratchet
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2008 5:14 am PT
Review:  I'm barely reviewing this game now but I've had it since release date. I was one of the people 
 camping ouside Gamecrazy...  .  Well , I bought it at midnight but even though I was Hella tired 
 i went home and played untill my eyes bled (i'm serious... D:) The second I unlocked Wolf I passed 
 out. I WAS OBSSESD WITH THIS GAME! Me and my friends have been fans of the first two and played 
 melle everyday till brawl's release date. Now every time they come over we play. That's the only 
 reason I use my wii. o wait... I'm supposed to be reviewing this game... WELL IT's AWESOME K? 
 
  
  
  
  lol olo lol olol ollol olololol olol olol ololololo lolololo lo loloo  
 lulz lawl LAWL aheh heh... lawl? ('.') 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NemesisOwnz
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2008 7:42 pm PT
Review:  I have to say : this is one of my favorite games. And the Nintendo guys did an excellent job on 
 this one! It has everything you would like to have in a fighting game plus the fun of playing with 
 Nintendo most famous characters! And of course, there are tons of things do unlock, so the replay 
 is very VERY good. The controls are real easy to learn ( especially those veterans who use the 
 Game Cube controller like myself... those are going to have the must fun time here! ) , so even 
 an inexperienced player could learn who to battle really fast. This game also lets you create your 
 own stages, which is in my opinion, one of the coolest things ever! Now, imagine trading this stages 
 with your friends? AWESOME! Add this to the Wi-Fi option, where you can play online with your friend 
 and people you don't know, and you have an amazing game play with lots hours of fun. Really, one 
 of the Wii most incredible games, recommended to buy one if you don't have it. Already a classic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ABRABOY
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  best game i ever played on the wii. i'm relieved my favorite characters are still on brawl. i usually 
 play with falco, samus, fox and mr. game and watch. only thing i don't like ishow some of the stages 
 changelike the bridge of eldin. wats the point of blowing up the bridge? but in some stages i like 
 when i changes like the new flatzone. but over all i like the game. just can't wait to play it for 
 a long time period. i only played it in gamesopt stores. i just need to get a wii.....
  
  (p. s.) too bad they took out mewtwo, roy, and dr. mario. they were fun characters even though i wasn't 
 too good with mewtwo but i had a easy two hit combo with him. just confuse your enemy and hit them 
 with the shadow ball. should have put every character on brawl.
  
  (p. s. #2) if they were making another super smash brothers, i would try to get them to put megaman 
 or naruto characters in. haha. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spideyeiteyman
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl is a fantastic game and easily the best in the series. The new characters 
 which include well known heros Solid Snake and Sonic are a great addition to brawl. There is a 
 variety of different unlockable music. Also, a new story mode has been created called the Subspace 
 Emissionary. This mode can be fun and allows you to unlock all the characters but takes much too 
 long to complete. It is mostly the same levels and bad guys over and over again. But the real fun 
 in Brawl is the multiplayer. Haveing friends over and playing is the ultimate gameing experience. 
 Also, a new item, the smash ball, was introduced and is probably the best addition in Brawl. It 
 allows the person who breaks it open to unleash that characters ultimate move which devastates 
 the other players. The A. I. is very intelligent and is fun to play with, too. To top it all off 
 there are minigames like boss battle, target smash, and home run derby. This is the best game on 
 the Wii and will bring hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link9n17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is a game that everyone has to at least give a chance. It's playing style 
 is set up to where it almost seems natural and 2nd nature.
  
  The main part of the game, "Brawl" mode is where you "Brawl" against friends or CPU's on a variety 
 of stadiums as you try to push them off the stadium. You can change the rules like change "items" 
 or you can change what stadiums you wish to have "on" for "random". It's something that you would 
 want to do if you had just a little time on your hands. There are a variety of characters from 
 past Nintendo games to play as and some other non Nintendo games. There is someone for everyone 
 it's a thing like, "Hey I've played a game with this character in it, I think I'll try him out!"
 
  
  Another part of the game is "solo" mode. In this mode you can do a variety of things from an intuitive, 
 grasping, side scrolling story mode entitled "the subspace emissary" to a mini-game where you hit 
 10 targets without dying called "target smash" (appropriate) . And Classic mode where you destroy 
 opponents to get to the end so you can get a trophy of the character you are. 
  
  You can even have sticker's, trophies, and challenges in "Vault". It's something that you would 
 use if you had a lot of time on your hands because it gives you little challenges like you want 
 a certain trophy or a certain sticker. You can even save videos and pictures from previous Brawls 
 here too! In "challenges" you can do things in other modes, they're easy and hard. Last you can 
 make stadiums to Brawl in. Its nice to have these things so you can keep coming back and trying 
 to get these things. There's some thing for everyone! 
  
  You also have wi-fi connectivity so you can always have someone to play against! Or you can see 
 videos, pictures and stadiums from other people!
  
  Closing comments
  It doesn't get much better than this with fun around every corner and the best soundtrack of all 
 the greatest Nintendo games of all time! If you are 10 or 26 you can still enjoy it to the fullest 
 extent. Lastly the graphics, they are great but it's just like what my brother says, "Intuitive, 
 yes, breathtaking, not really". 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostofluigi
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Brawl was delayed over and over again and I always kept saying to myself,"This wait 
 better be worth it." Let me tell you something, it was more then worth it. Graphics were great with 
 the characters because it made them look so real. Speaking of characters, the roster was just mind-blowing 
 with more than 20 characters to choose from. Music was very well composed with new and old songs 
 and the theme song they just outdid! Stages were great with some of them having fun gimmicks and 
 some just fun to battle on. You might be surprised but the day after I got the game, I was just 
 obsessed with beating the Subspace Emissary and collecting all the characters that I spent a full 
 15 hours on the game in one day and I beat the SSE in that time. You are probably wondering why 
 I gave it a 9.0 becuase I'm saying all these positive things. Well, here is where my problem with 
 the game was.
  
  The Subspace Emissary.
  This was so frustrating because the levels were so long and the story was somewhat confusing at 
 times and the last level. I'm sorry but there is no reason you have to fight every single character 
 that you see in the SSE. 
  
  To conclude, Brawl is a mind-blowing game even with the frustrating SSE. Just Simply mind-blowing! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nillod
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  The game that I have been waiting for since SSBM came out is finally in my grasp and it does not 
 disappoint. Brawl is one of the most addicting and fun games that I have played in a long time 
 even outdoing games like Goldeneye, Halo and Street Fighter. The downside to the game is the single 
 player group setting because fighting CPU's just gets old after a while. When in groups though, 
 this is a seriously amazing game. Even after all the years and recent last few months of waiting, 
 I am not at all unhappy with the finished product. The Subspace Emissary is a fun and engaging 
 addition to the original adventure mode and the fact that it can be played with two people just 
 add to the fun. The roster is also top notch especially having Solid Snake in the mix. He is one 
 bada** motherf***** and he is also really fun to use if you want to lay mines everywhere and send 
 out missiles to screw around with someone. Online play is fun but can be incredibly frustrating 
 if there is a lag included in the fight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metabeau
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2008 1:38 am PT
Review:  After many delays, Brawl as finally arrived. When it arrived it was clear that it was worth the 
 wait. Brawl is excellent and very addictive. The music is extremely good and the Subspace Emissary 
 is one of the best story modes I have ever seen in a Nintendo game.
  There are many unlockables which will keep you playing after you have completed the story mode. 
 These unlockables include: stages, characters, options and games.
  One of the new features of Brawl is the introduction of the 'Final Smash'. This is a brilliant 
 new feature as it forces all the players to do whatever it takes to get the smash ball. 
  For all it's achievements it has some problems. The biggest problem is the online multiplayer. 
 For some reason I can never find anyone online anymore. The main reason is that often online matches 
 have a lot of lag and this is very annoying. Another problem is the classic mode. One of the reasons 
 Melee was praised by critics was that it had a classic mode where your opponents were chosen at 
 random and you could play any character. Brawl has completely ignored this and the classic mode 
 has barely any variety in opponents at all.
  Once you get used to these irritations you will begin to realize that actually Brawl is one of 
 the best games on sale today and definitely the best game you can currently buy on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackiepackie
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  It's the same ssb but with different characters.....
  They could have done better but its still a great multiplayer game that you should definitely pick 
 up because it's one of the best games on the wii Though the single player storymode is very lengthy, 
 it gets boring after you beat it once. Only if you are super committed to gaining every sticker 
 and trophy then would the storymode be exciting for the player. As for the online multiplayer, 
 the connection is pretty bad and should only be played if you want to face a friend. The stage 
 builder is pretty cool although it could use some more parts to mess around with and more than 
 three background stages. One of the best items in the game is probably the newest item the smash 
 ball. It adds so much more chaos to the fight because as soon as its onscreen everyone makes a 
 dash to grab it. If the SSB series should come out with another game it would be interesting to 
 add a create your own character feature like using various body parts from the nintendo unlockables 
 and meshing it into a sweet character or even using your mii character would be cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbkkristian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl the sequel to Super Smash Bros Melee, was a great game. Brawl has 35 characters 
 to choose from like the returning veteran brawlers Link, Mario, Donkey Kong, and new characters 
 like Sonic and Snake with a total of 35 Characters compared to a total of 223 or 25 (correct me 
 if I'm wrong by sending me a PM) . Brawl has lot of new features like the new story mode called 
 the Subspace Emissary. You pummel through levels like a classic Mario Game (Except more smash, 
 more enemies, etc.) And for the first time ever, Super Smash Bros. goes online!!! Brawl people 
 online as a team or Free for All. Or register a friend and play some Home-Run Contests or Multi-Man 
 Brawls! 
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl could of been better especially when it comes to online features. Super 
 Smash Bros. should of had Custom Stages or Target Practice! And They should of Put more space and 
 parts in custom stages. And when you play online, be aware a lot of people are really cheap online! 
 Here are the cheapest characters: Ike, Snake, Wolf and Pikachu. 
  So to summarize this up, Super Smash Bros. Brawl was worth the money but not worth the wait. But 
 when it comes to online, find a way to exterminate cheap people! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo-Master12
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  Super smash bros. Brawl is a Amazing game. It has great graphics and easy game play. With over 
 20 characters this game will last for months if not years! You can even play story mode which lasts 
 20-40 hours it's a story mode where you play all the charachters as you defeat interesting monsters 
 as you defeat all the evil charachters. (Bowser, Wario and Ganondorf) you have a fun time till 
 the end. Definetly nominee if not winner of game of the year. I can't tell you enough about how 
 good this game is. I can't wait until the next game comes out that will also be a blast. This is 
 a game to buy. If you have the wii you have to get this game no matter how old you are. This is 
 the game to get. Also the multiplayer is really fun too. You need to try it on multiplayer and 
 you will be amazed. Great Graphics, Great Sound just a great game! Get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mavs_dirk41
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2008 3:18 am PT
Review:  Words cannot sum up the game, rather actions. I spent 10 hours straight finishign subspace, desperate 
 to unlock all characters. The addition of the new characters is golden and the fighting is much 
 better. Being a veteran of the smash brawl series, this game left me breathless.
  The game's new character's don't disappoint as the ybrign their own arsenal of weapons.
  The 
 game continually draws you in. I'm sure i'm gonna fail a ton of assesment tasks playing this but 
 its so great. A must buy for all wii owners and it's so easy to pick up and play.
  GET A COPY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! AND DONT GIVE ME THE BS THAT ITS SOLD OUT
  But the heart of the game, 
 subspace emissary is the best way to fight using your characters. it presents you with enough challenge 
 that you can adjust to your liking.
  In fact, im going to play it right now. stuff homework, go metaknight!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Half-Doom
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Hello to anyone wasting time reading this near worthless piece of text (I kid, I kid)
  
  Wow..... Just wow....
  In my opinion somewhat educated (if somewhat biased) opinion this game 
 was worth the wait. It has loads of characters (many returning) , fun gameplay, and new (and some 
 old) stages. This game would make a great addition to any gamer's collection, and it's a great 
 party game (better than mario party?) . It's a real joy to play this game and in short it's just 
 plain fun. If you own a Wii, but you don't own this game..... GO OUT AND BUY IT! *breathes deeply* 
 Ok well anyways you should get this game if you don't already.
  Oh and did I mention it has online gameplay?
  
  This is Half-Doom signing off.
  
  P. S
 
  It's really, super, ultra fun to play as Snake. WOOH FOR TEH SNAKE! *ahem* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dafoose
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Brothers Brawl is the mega-god of all games. Everything you could possibly need in 
 a video game. Make room on your shelves, get rid of your mortal kombat, your Soul Caliber, for 
 the quickest, most intense smack down game.
  
  Not to be confused with a button masher, SSBB is a test of agility, tactics, and strategy, using 
 the maps from the game, as well as various combos to set your opponent up for a quick KO. Choose 
 from 35 different characters, more than ever before. It's a great variety, and you're bound to 
 find plenty of favorites, or the right character for you. Going head to head with your friends 
 has never been so much fun with this game. 
  
  Of all nintendo games, this one surpasses mario party easily. With tournaments, up to 32 people 
 can play, with cheering and parties. The ultimate setup for laughs and smackdowns!
  
  If you haven't played super smash brothers brawl, you are definetly missing a great part of our 
 gaming world and society. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m1i6a
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is finally here, and with a great online multiplayer added.
  
  This time there's a thin story in a Smash Bros. game, but still it's not much to get excited about 
 and sole purpose of it is to introduce the different playable characters. Adventure mode is played 
 as a 2D side-scroller and in small doses it's somewhat fun.
  
  Graphics especially in cutscenes are pretty much the best what Wii has to offer and the color palette 
 of a Nintendo rainbow is in all its glory at full use. Actual gameplay is little more humble in 
 its appearance, but that's forgivable since there's so much stuff happening on screen at once. 
 Luckily the frame rate stays solid all the time.
  
  Music is that familiar, over the top orchestrated Smash Bros. style, which works fine, but also 
 doesn't deliver anything new to the table. Sound effects are varied, because in Brawl environment 
 is also making noises in the heat of battle. Usually you're just too busy focusing on fighting 
 rather than enjoying the nice scenery or listening that awesome music.
  
  Controls are simple and responsive. Losing happens if you don't know what you're doing. Brawl is 
 clearly a skill based game and in order to succeed you need to know your environment, enemies and 
 of course your own abilities.
  
  Basic gameplay in a Smash Bros. game is a 2D arena, where 4 fighters beat the snot out of each 
 other. Everyone has their own numeric meter and when that number rises too high it's easy for other 
 players to knock that contender out of the screen and score points that way.
  
  Arenas are much more interesting than other fighting games, because these arenas live and change 
 as the fight goes on. This means that one crucial thing to master is to pay close attention to 
 one's environment. Both characters and arenas are heavily inspired by Nintendo franchises, with 
 some Sega's Sonic and Konami's Metal Gear added to the mix. If you have played Nintendo for a long 
 time chances are that you'll enjoy these different references a lot more than someone who is new 
 to Nintendo games.
  
  Even though the basic concept of Brawl is simple, there are lots of different things to unlock. 
 I'll guarantee that it'll take quite some time to get them all.
  
  Multiplayer is of course THE reason why people play a Smash Bros. game and this time there's a 
 very functional Wi-Fi play added and this alone makes Brawl the best game in this franchise. Fights 
 are fast, furious and unpredictable. All this is done with a light mood which Nintendo is known 
 for.
  
  Brawl is a polished game with very few flaws and it can be recommended to fans of previous games. 
 On the other hand if you didn't enjoy those previous installments this new Brawl is not going to 
 change your mind. I personally have never liked Smash Bros. games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MeowMixReviewer
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  35 Characters, 41 stages, nintendo characters such as Mario, Bowser, Link and even Sonic?! Yes 
 Please. If you have played the whole series of Smash Bros., then you will know that it's all just 
 battling and what not, but in Brawl, there is the Subspace Emissary mode which allows you to go 
 on a brilliant nintendo journey to destroy Subspace from the hand's of Tabuu, i need not say anymore. 
 With your attack moves depending on your character, it's always a never-ending array of attack's 
 to destroy your opponent. Great single player, brilliant multi-player and exhilirating "Minigames" 
 make this game so fun with your mates or even on your own. Plus, there is over at least 30 unlockables 
 including characters, stages, events and even minigames so you are sure to be enjoying this game 
 until your hands are bleeding from senceless button pressing. Awesome! So please, do Nintendo a 
 favour and buy this game, you won't be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariosonic14
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  It might have taken what seemed like a long time for this game to come out, but Super Smash Bros. 
 Brawl was definetly worth the wait. From collecting trophys to completing an all new lengthy adventure 
 mode, there is enough stuff to do in Brawl to keep you occupied for a long time. The soundtrack 
 for this game held an impressive amount of music, and you could even choose what music you wanted 
 to play for the stages that you had. The introduction of the new item the Smash Ball only made 
 battleing it out that much more fun. Even if you were playing by your self, you could have a blast 
 playing this game with all of the event matches, target tests, and more that you could do. And 
 if you wanted to fight someone but no one was around, you can go onto the Wi-Fi where there is 
 always someone to fight. In short this game is a must have for anyone with a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cayner
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2008 1:49 am PT
Review:  it is a great game full of adventure and seems like it never ends i would suggest getting this 
 game cause it will be one game you will play for a long time. It ha every character you need and 
 more .. it is so good... i wish they cold make these games in series cause i will buy every single 
 one.. and thank god it is on the wii XD ... i love the Wii so thanks to this game the wii has gone 
 to a higher level.. you shold think of getting it.. it is complete and is more then what it is 
 taught to be... im guessing its going to be a on the charts of the wii's top games for a long time.... 
 
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: USS-Voyager
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is a game where you hit your opponent with a handful of different moves 
 until he falls of the screen. Luckily it is a lot more fun than that might make it sound. There 
 are a bunch of characters to choose from including solid snake (metal gear solid) and sonic. There 
 is actualy a campaign in this game! The campaign is pretty solid. The story is told by 1 minute 
 cut scened inbetween 10-20 minutes of gameplay. You can face this campaign alone or with a buddy. 
 In fact the only mode you can't do with a friend is the classic mode. Everything else is co-op 
 enabled. Also there are tournaments, special brawls, and plain ol' brawls. All are best played 
 with other people even though the computer is challenging in the 7 8 and 9 settings nothing can 
 top the unpredictability of another human being! You can also create your own maps but that isn't 
 as exciting as it may sound. You can place several objects in your maps but they will never be 
 as complex as the maps that ship with the game. There is a ton of music to unlock as well. All 
 of witch is top notch... 'nuff said. So if you are considering buing this game STOP considering 
 and just go and get it. You won't regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JPSmonkey111
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 11, 2008 9:01 pm PT
Review:  If you own a Wii, then you need this game. A winner of a game, for a winner of a console. Get ready 
 to be blown away by the awesomeness of fighting.
  
  I rate a game in 5 sections....
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Well, what can you say? Its Super Smash Bros. Its all about the gameplay. And 
 it succeeds. It is a beast of a fighting game. Every character feels fairly unique when compared 
 to each other. The game is very fun.
  
  STORY:
  
  Well, you can't really rate this game for its story... But the Sub Space Emissionary is a great 
 experience, and a fresh new way to enjoy Brawl. Though you would not buy this game just for the 
 story. 
  
  CONTROLS:
  
  Since the game runs at a crisp 60 fps, and the remote reacts almost immediately. You can not blame 
 the controls when you lose a Brawl.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Well, admit it, the Wii isn't the most powerful system in the planet. Nonetheless, this is one 
 of the prettiest Wii games ever. Right there behind Super Mario Galaxy. Don't let anyone tell you 
 this looks like Super Smash Bros. Melee, or a last generation game. It is very nice looking.
  
  LASTING APPEAL:
  
  You WILL play this game for a long long long long long long time. It 
 is the best party game on Wii, and maybe of all time. Buy this game. Now. Rock on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samus_user
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 11, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Brawl was in my opinion one of the greatest games on the wii. It is a game that everybody can play. 
 It is family friendly (no blood, bad language, sexual themes) and great at parties. It is a beautiful 
 game just looking at it. The graphics aren't choppy. And the cutscenes are glorious within themselves. 
 Story mode is very compelling and interesting. It just draws you in. Story mode aside, all of it; s 
 other features are great as well. Multiplayer brawl mode is fun with friends or even by yourself. 
 And things like multi-man brawl and home run contest are great side games that let you try something 
 new instead of smashing up an opponent. The characters have there own personalities and although 
 there are some characters we could have done without they were all good. And there were enough 
 characters with their own fighting style, that let you pick one that suited you to a T. I am pretty 
 good with ice climbers, lucas, and Zelda (not sheik though) . This game is wonderfull! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: William6058
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  The next in series is out. Super Smash Bros. Brawl. Melee itself was good enough, but Nintendo 
 had the ambitiousness and the creativity to take it even more farther. And some additions are also 
 hilarious.
  
  I got this game not a long time ago, but right away I started playing it, as I was a old time gamer 
 of Melee. I used a nunchuck and remote. At first I didn't know what's going on, and I didn't get 
 used to the controls, so that's why I didn't act fast enough to use my midair jump to recover..... 
 But oh well, everyone does that at the start.
  
  So I continued playing, and personally I think the best improvement from its predecessors is the 
 adventure single player mode. Melee had going side scrolling action the random places, without 
 too much cut scenes. But SSBB has taken it 5 times further. I like the lengthy storyline and the 
 gameplay. It all fits into the story. But one thing I personally find as a flaw is that everything 
 is happening all at once. One time you're at a laboratory with Pikachu and Samus, and then next 
 we find the Pokemon Trainer with Lucas. I find that keeps me from getting the storyline at some 
 parts. But it doesn't annoy me that much, so nothing more to say here.
  
  I liked the classic mode also, just dueling old-school. Event matches are also nicely put together 
 with a variety of objectives to do. One thing I find that is not better from Melee is the target 
 test. I didn't like the 5 levels you do that is the SAME for each character. In melee there was 
 like 20 different levels, a unique one for each character. So in Brawl it's like having only 5 
 levels to do. So I don't play that a lot. I sometimes do the Multi Man and the Home Run Contest, 
 but I'm not too interested in it.
  
  But then here's where the real action comes in. Mulitplayer. Duke it out with your favorite characters 
 against other Nintendo characters. I thought some characters didn't fit very well in Brawl (like 
 Olimar and Diddy Kong) but others (Snake and Sonic) are welcomed to the character selections (Or 
 so as I think) . Like the first 2 games, choose a character, choose a CPU or another human friend, 
 choose a stage, and you're all set.
  
  Online mode I'm not familiar with or I'm never going to do that unless my friend comes over. I 
 have no siblings, that's why. I also heard from a couple people that it lags.
  
  The gameplay is great. Every character comes with their own weapons and attacks, including the 
 final smash. But I thought the final smash was to cheap, so i turned the smash ball item OFF. Some 
 clone characters would be familiar if you have played the other character. Much more to say, but 
 I'm sure you would get the idea.
  
  The new items from Brawl is that I think some of them are not fit for me, but some do. Luckily, 
 there are many items transferred from Melee and the original. So I'm happy with it.
  
  For the characters, I used to excel and pwn with Fox and Falco at melee, along with pikachu and 
 pichu (and mario) . But now, I find that Fox has changed. (along with Pikachu) So I set off to find 
 another set of characters that I would like. But that was already chosen. That was Mario (like 
 Melee) , Kirby, and Meta Knight. I just happened to get them as I thought they're "cool". To give 
 you a brief overview, I will give you a list of most of the characters (by universe)
  
  Mario, Luigi, Peach, Donkey Kong, Bowser, Diddy Kong, Yoshi (Mario, Donkey Kong Series)
  The 
 all time favorite character Mario is back! Mario and Luigi are close clones, but not DIddy Kong 
 and Donkey Kong. Bowser is slow and strond, and Yoshi has a small boost when doing the up special, 
 making it a small recovery. Peach retained most of her moves.
  
  Fox, Falco, Wolf (Star Fox Series)
  All clone characters, I used to excel at them in Melee, but 
 now it's changed. Has some convenient new tactics and Fox is speedy.
  
  Pikachu, Jigglypuff, Lucario, Pokemon Trainer (Pokemon Series)
  Pikachu is back with a batch 
 of moves retained from Melee. Lucario makes a myserious opening is Brawl, and I have yet to play 
 him. Jigglypuff is another veteran, now more floaty and slower. Pokemon trainer has 3 pokemon in 
 his command, which that you can swap during battle. My mind is not going right now so I hope I 
 haven't missed any other characters...
  
  Ness, Lucas, Olimar, ROB, Toon Link, and Wario (series that I'm not familiar with)
  Ness has 
 most of his moves. Lucas is a clone of Ness. Olimar and ROB, I have yet to play. Toon Link is a 
 replacement of Young LInk. Wario, well, he's just plain random.
  
  Link, Zelda/Sheik, Ganondorf (Legend of Zelda series)
  Link has a couple of changes, like his 
 boomerang. Zelda is slow and magical, Shiek is fast and stealthy. Ganondorf is slow and strong.
 
  
  Captain Falcon (F-Zero Series)
  CF is back as an unlockable. Very fast speed, but slow moves.
  
  Kirby, Meta Knight, King Dedede 
 (Kirby series)
  Kirby has been the sole representative of the Kirby series until now. He can now use Hammer while 
 airborne. Meta Knight has good A combos. King Dedede is strong and a large target.
  
  SSBB is a successful game and will be enjoyed by many people for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omar5o
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  The original Super Smash was pretty much boring, and did'nt get that much of a boost for a start. 
 But Melee fixed the series up pretty nice, adding more features than the original, and more characters 
 at that too. But when Brawl came in, that's when it really fired up.........
  
  Story:9
  
  A twist, that, in opinion was pretty fun. I really liked the story. This is a new feature in 
 the Smash series with all of the characters and Master Hand, the villain you face every time in 
 Classic mode. There's also someone else, but i'm not going to say anything.
  
  Graphics:10
  
  I'm really surprised at the graphics. They were perfect for the Wii. If you're 
 worried about them, you don't have to anymore. Like I said, perfect.
  
  Gameplay:10
  
  The action is really intense. I love the gameplay. Nintendo Characters flying everywhere, stuff 
 blowing up and......... the power of the Final Smash, also a new feature. It's basically a finisher. 
 One other thing is the 3 modes of play. Time, Stock, and Coins. But just wait until you play with 
 your friends
  
  Sound:10
  
  The sound is awesome. Sword attacks, bombs, punches, kicks, Final Smashes, you name it.
  
  
 Value:8
  
  If you have friends or siblings to play with, the Value goes up. Brawl could get boring playing 
 it alone. I'm guessing that's why Nintendo added online play to the game.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Brawl is a really fun game and there's tons of things to do. From unlocking the 32 characters 
 to unlocking stages, trophies, stickers, music, and more, you'll be occupied pretty much for a 
 long time. So if you don't have Brawl, go get it and see what you're missing.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: curtis342
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 7:29 pm PT
Review:  From the previews, it was pretty obvious that Super Smash Bros Brawl was going to be the hit game 
 that the Wii needed to appeal to non-casual gamers. But I was never expecting it to become this 
 amazing. For me, Brawl did what many other Wii games didn't do: it was a game that was simple enough 
 to learn, but deep enough to keep me playing long after buying it. It also makes many more advancements 
 to this game than I ever imagined it could with the stage creator. I originally thought that it 
 was going to be much too simple to appeal to me, but its simplicity is what makes it excellent. 
 It lets you begin with a simple, plain stage (like an flat arena with a pit of spikes in the middle) 
 and eventually, with time, create stages that are much more complex (like a stage with a small, 
 flat floor with countless moving platforms above it) . You can also take screenshots and save replays 
 to your hard-drive and send them to friends, and while this isnt done as brilliantly as halo 3, 
 it drastically increases the replay value of the game and allows you to enjoy your best games with 
 friends. The combat also follows this formula of easy to learn, hard to master. With only 2 attack 
 buttons, you'd think at first that the combat would be shallow, but when you account for the games 
 items and the countless combos that can be created in team battles, you'll always enjoy brawling 
 with your friends for hours on end. This game is what Nintendo needed to break out and appeal to 
 non-casual gamers, and it completely delivers on its promises. All Wii owners owe it to themselves 
 to buy this game. Its simple, family-friendly fun that anyone can play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eSchmac
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  I cannot tell you how long I've spent playing SSB, SSBM, and SSBB. The general concept is what 
 makes it awesome, and even if you're not a hardcore Nintendo fan, you should have fun with this 
 game, just because of everything in it. The characters, the unlockables, the stages, the graphics. 
 It all just looks and plays so great. I admit the FREAKIN clones are annoying. Captain Falcon and 
 Ganondorf??? WHY????? They couldn't even incorporate Ganondorfs awesome glowy shiny sword, except 
 for a taunt. I don't believe, however, that Fox, Falco and Wolf are complete clones (sure their 
 final smashes are all the same and Wolf's is the cheapest) but they each play very differently. 
 They could've tried harder with those three characters, though. The replayability is great too, 
 just because there is so much to unlock, sort of like achievments on Wii, but only for SSBB. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rojodiablo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  Everything that can be said about SSBB has already been said. I'll keep my two cents short and 
 sweet and highlight what I think are this game's shiniest aspects.
  
  The new Campaign-style mode shows off the in-game graphics to their full effect even if the somewhat 
 cheesy style and manga presentation are not to everyone's tastes.
  
  The comprehensive menus are perfectly tuned and easy to navigate so jumping between game modes 
 on a whim is fast and fluid and holds the player's interest.
  
  The revamped selections of Event Matches, single-player modes and Stadium games are perfect and 
 the challenge they pose (and the rewards they reap) are tuned to perfection.
  
  The Vault is a wonderful way of letting completionists get their mitts on the most exclusive content, 
 whilst simultaneously providing solid proof and therefore bragging rights to those able to achieve 
 the highest-ranking honours.
  
  The character roster. Some say it has improved, some say it hasn't. It is different. Everyone will 
 have a different opinion on this because it is nothing more than personal preference - we all have 
 our favourites and some people's will have got lost since the previous instalment, but the boost 
 in numbers means there is more than likely a new favourite out there waiting to be discovered. 
 My personal feeling on this is that I can no longer imagine the Super Smash Bros. game universe 
 without Pit.
  
  Super Smash Bros. Melee was the best beat 'em up game on the market until this sequel - which really 
 is an improvement on the old title in every way - was released. There is no better game that will 
 allow 32 of your mates to get together and have a good, old-fashioned beat 'em up and there will 
 never be... until the sequel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chewjacka206
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2008 2:24 am PT
Review:  
  
  It's hard to believe, but it's been nine years since the original Super Smash Bros. brought some 
 of the most iconic Nintendo characters together for frantic battles, and roughly seven years since 
 its sequel Super Smash Bros. Melee was released. Perhaps even harder still to believe -- and a testament 
 to the series' popularity and longevity -- is that these games are still being played religiously 
 to this day. But no matter whether you're a diehard Smash Bros. fanatic or a neophyte brawler, 
 you'll be pleased to know that Super Smash Bros. Brawl includes a plethora of impressive characters, 
 features, and game modes, and is more accessible and fun than ever before.
  
  For the uninitiated, Smash Bros. is a multiplayer-centric series of fast-paced 2D fighting games 
 that features a cast of characters from all over the Nintendo universe. If you've ever found yourself 
 arguing with a friend about whether or not Mario could beat Link in a one-on-one match, Brawl is 
 the game that will let you settle the issue once and for all (the answer of course is that Kirby 
 would eat them both) . Characters such as Ike from Fire Emblem, Meta Knight from Kirby, Fox McCloud 
 from Star Fox, Lucas from the unreleased-in-the-US Mother 3 (Earthbound 2) , Pikachu from Pokmon, 
 and many more are all on the roster in Brawl, boosting its size up to an impressive 35 total characters -- 14 
 of which are hidden and must be unlocked. For the first time, the list of guests includes third-party, 
 non-Nintendo characters such as Solid Snake and Sonic the Hedgehog, and all of them bring their 
 own signature fighting styles and moves to the game.
  
  The roster is bigger than ever before and includes some surprising new additions.
  
  Smash 
 Bros. has always been one of the most accessible fighting games on the market because of the simplicity 
 of its controls, and Brawl is no different. There are essentially only two attack buttons (one 
 for normal attacks and one for special moves) , and depending on which way you tilt your control 
 stick when you hit them, they can produce a variety of effects that include the titular "smash" 
 attacks. In the interests of user friendliness, Brawl offers four possible control schemes, which 
 ensures that everyone can play whichever way they like; Wii Remote and Nunchuck, Wii Remote alone, 
 Classic Controller, and GameCube Controller are all equally represented. Each of these methods 
 are equally viable, and fans of Brawl's predecessor will be happy to know that the GameCube controls 
 remain unchanged.
  
  Combat includes up to four players brawling on video game-themed stages. The goal is to knock your 
 enemies out of the arena with one of the aforementioned smash attacks. The amount of damage each 
 character has sustained is measured in a percentage, and the higher this percentage is, the farther 
 he or she flies when hit. Battles are fast-paced, frenetic, fun, and often outrageous orgies of 
 chaos, which makes Brawl a perfect party game. But just because the game's mechanics are so simplified 
 compared to traditional fighters doesn't mean that there isn't a lot of depth to be found for those 
 willing to invest the time.
  
  All of the characters have their own strengths and weaknesses, and learning how to protect yourself 
 while taking advantage of your opponents' flaws goes a long way toward securing a victory. There 
 can be a surprising amount of strategy involved, from knowing when and how to attack to ensuring 
 that the terrain of the sometimes over-the-top levels works for you rather than against you. But 
 all that said, Brawl is an incredibly well-balanced game in which even a brand-new player can come 
 away the victor against a hardened veteran.
  
  Throughout combat, various types of items will spawn on the battlefield for use by the first player 
 to reach them. Some, such as the beam sword, are offensive in nature and augment your attack capabilities, 
 whereas others are restorative and will lower your damage meter. Many of these items are from the 
 various games the characters originate from, such as the fire flower and the super mushroom from 
 Super Mario Bros. Although a lot of them have been featured in the previous Smash Bros. games, 
 many new ones appear in Brawl, including the superspicy curry, which makes your character breathe 
 fire for a time. Also worthy of a mention are the various assist trophies, which summon non-playable 
 characters such as Tingle from The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker or the 8-bit racers from Excitebike 
 to help or hinder you. Some things -- especially the hammer, bob-omb, and warp star -- could be considered 
 game-breaking due to their abilities to inflict fatal wounds nearly all of the time, but these 
 items and any others can be toggled off in the options menu before a match begins.
  
  Metal Gear?! It can't be!
  
  In fact, customizable is the name of the game, given that a wide 
 variety of parameters can be adjusted when participating in the special brawl mode. Gravity, fighter 
 size, and game speed are just a few of the options, with some of the more outlandish possibilities 
 being whether or not your characters are made of metal (which makes them much heavier and thus 
 harder to KO) or are virtually invisible. Both special brawl matches and regular battles let you 
 customize which items are allowed and how often items will spawn, what kinds of handicaps -- if any -- are 
 in place, how stages are selected, and more.
  
  Teams can be created if you so desire, and the types of brawls that can be started include timed 
 matches in which the one who scores the most kills and the least deaths wins, stock matches in 
 which the last player standing wins, and coin-collecting matches in which the number of coins everyone 
 has when time is up determines the winner. Tournaments are a snap to set up due to a built-in mode 
 that facilitates up to 32 players on a single Wii, and there's even a rotation mode to help up 
 to 16 players figure out how to take turns. In short, there are literally dozens of ways that you 
 can battle in your living room.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kweni
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is so awesome !
  I had Wii for like 2 years ago, and played some game, s then got bored, so my wii was hiding in 
 the closet for about a year, because ther were only 'childish' games comming..
  but now.. man aweomse game to play with your friend with a good joint going around!
  Grafics:
 
  7/10
  Blah... it's Wii :D
  Sound: 7/10
  No complains
  but the short songs that will be played over and ovoer and over, they will gzt bored to listen 
 at.
  Gameplay:
  9/10
  Story:
  The story is not bad, you'll see how it goes, and the scene's are beautifull.
  Some enemies look 
 realy wierd. but it's okey.
  it's good that most of chars are linked in the story
  8/10
  Awesome.
  the controls are easy, and easy to learn advanced attacks.
  Cool characters.
  and 
 it's awesome to kick some pokemon's butt.
  
  Total score:
  7/10
  7/10
  9/10
  8/10
  final:
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirbyking8
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  When I first found out that Nintendo was making a new Super Smash Bros. title, I new I needed to 
 get it. When I did, I was not disapointed. With tons of new characters, new stages, new modes, 
 the ability to create your own stage, and many more that I'm forgetting, Super Smash Bros. Brawl 
 is easily is the one of the best Wii games out there and the best in the series. The Characters 
 range from the Legend of Zelda series, all the way to the Kid Icarus games, which means anyone 
 could find a good character to play with. The stages come from many nintendo franchises and some 
 stages from the past game, melee, are in this too. Although the online mode is lacking many things 
 including voice chat, I think the rest of the game makes up for it. This game deserves a perfect 
 10. I'd probably reccomend SSBB to any Nintendo fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EJ_20
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  Great game, I was so excited when I had first heard about it. 
  
  The graphics have just evolved so much since the first game the characters look great and the stages 
 are even better.
  
  The gameplay is great, there are many different game modes to keep you playing for weeks. And there 
 are so many characters as well, ranging from different styles of fighting so you can find a character 
 for you. Online is great playing with friends around the country to playing against people around 
 the world if you're friends aren't home.
  
  Replay is to good to be true, it's even better in groups. You and your friends can be playing for 
 hours at a time, keeping you entertained for months.
  
  The game would get a 10 but they're missing something in story mode, I don't know what it is but 
 it isn't there. Don't get me wrong I love story mode I love playing it over and over but like I 
 said it's just missing something. But it's not that big and the game is so good that it hardly 
 affects it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: verysneaky
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9.5
  I couldn't say it has the most perfect gameplay, but its done as intended and incredibly fun and 
 easy to pick up. Though there is that chance factor that reduces the gap between new and experienced 
 players, it doesn't do it too much. The number of modes is huge, making for some hectic and epic 
 battles.
  
  Graphics: 10
  It doesn't look realistic, but it's not supposed to. It looks awesome on the wii and has improved 
 massively since the series started on the N64.
  
  Sound: 10
  The sounds are awesome, a huge selection of songs and the sounds for attacks are pretty much flawless.
 
  
  Value: 10
  With a huge selection of modes, characters, difficulties and things to unlock, this game has amazing 
 replay value that I, and a lot of others could play Brawl for a long time.
  
  Multiplayer / Online: 9
  The online is the cause for the 1 point drop as there are a few problems 
 with the system Brawl uses. When there isn't lag though, the online matches are suprisingly fun, 
 as I had anticipated that playing with friends with you would be a lot better. While it is, the 
 online makes for some very nice matches. The non-online multiplayer is very fun, so if you have 
 friends interested in this game, the matches are, well, fun.
  
  Overall: 9.5
  The online and small flaws in gameplay keep this from scoring a 10, but otherwise a very well made 
 game and yeah, get this game if you're interested in fighters and nintendo characters, otherwise, 
 there are some other good games on the wii, but this is one of the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solid_shark88
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2008 7:39 am PT
Review:  When this was announced at E32006, I actually called EB and reserved a copy and a year and a half 
 later I got the game that is perfect!
  
  Graphics (10/10)
  Amazing how this series advanced from the first game. I literally would frame this game and put 
 it in a museum, that is how much I love it.
  
  Gameplay (10/10)
  Basic combos, loads of characters, many different ways to play, all the modes. JACKPOT!
  
  
 Sound (10/10)
  The classic songs bring back memories, the new ones amaze me, the voices are great.
  
  Replay 
 Value (10/10)
  Great with friends, great alone, beat it once, beat it again, play for hours on end, play it an 
 hour a day. Either way you do it, Hooray!
  
  Online (10/10)
  This online was actually better then most WiFi titles and is my backup when I can't think of ways 
 to play alone.
  
  Overall (50/50)
  A perfect 10.0.
  
  This is why Nintendo is a key franchise. Buy it if you have Wii, Buy a wii if you hear of this 
 game. This is Wii's best game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pie2006
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Well this game is very good and I love it. I love it because there is much to unlock which that 
 means that it will last you for ages. It's good because a lot of Nintendo characters are in it 
 plus there are one Sony character and one Sega character. They have still got the classic mode 
 for all the people who loved the old games like bros and melee. It has a very good story mode (Subspace 
 Embassy) that is quite long and it is fun if you got two people. You can still earn the characters 
 3 different ways by using the subspace embassy or how many matches to be done or by there actual 
 preferences. This game can be a bit button bash but after a while you should actual learn what 
 each button does and you can use the brilliant training mode to us. Its online is ok but there 
 is nothing special. Overall I recon that everybody, that has a Wii should buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffmotorsports51
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Super Smash Bros. Brawl, it ROCKED!!!! After I have played this game for a 
 few days, it got old to me : (. Luckilly, I did not buy this game, I rented it. The combat in this 
 game ROCKS! You will have so much fun playing this game that you will not want to put the controller 
 down. Choose from your favorite Nintendo (and some non-Nintendo) characters. My favorites are Ike, 
 and Link. Ike is the man! His attacks rule!!! Link has the same attacks from Smash Bors. Melee, 
 that does not surprise me. The characters have the same attacks from Melee, and nothing really 
 new about them. The Adventure mode is really cool! It in my mind, the easiest way to earn all of 
 the characters. I did it that way. I like the Event mode too. I was able to beat all of the events! 
 Everything about this game is awesome! But the only flaw in my mind, is that the game gets old 
 after a few days. It's the same process over, and over again. Overall, awesome game, your favorite 
 Nintendo characters, addicting gameplay, cool music, new Adventure mode is awesome, unfortunetely 
 gets old after a few days. If you own a Wii, give this game a try, and believe me, you will be 
 hooked! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaisal1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 9:56 pm PT
Review:  You probably would not like me for writing this, but I am always honest. I will say that this game 
 is as fun as Super Smash Brothers Melee was. However, that is how fun it is only going to stay. 
 The stage builder is a nice addition. Sadly, it has very few any pieces or backgrounds to make 
 anything special. The player does not even have the ability to upload backgrounds. There is still 
 a lack of originality, such as Ganondorf still has similar moves to Captain Falcon. The special 
 moves were a nice addition. I still seem to have issues with the lack of balance of it. Such as 
 Luigi has a much better special than Mario. The stages are good. The musical score is superb. The 
 adventure mode is sad excuse for game play, its repetitive for no reason, and has movie scenes 
 without any good plot. I personally believe that this game was released before its time. However, 
 it seems to entertain fans from time to time considering it has a genre of its own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultra-chidori
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Ok so this is it the final entry for the Smash Bros series has arrived... the only question is is 
 it worth the time? Yes it is. You see you can play as famous characters from Nintendo and use one 
 of them to bash the other into hayday. By making use of well timed button mashing and awesome timing 
 you can be da bomb at Smash Bros. But watch out the vast variety of items to help you have been 
 bumped up to a number I wasn't able to find out. Fun modes like an Adventure mode and Boss Battles 
 mode accompany you as you fight your way to the top of the skilled charts. What I found was the 
 best was being able to use my character Link to duke it out better than before. You will have fun 
 collecting songs, trophies, and stickers. The visuals are great and great in detail. All in all, 
 you will find that fun smashing will await you as you buy this game and play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EmoSloth79
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  The Moment I heard about the third Super Smash Bros., I was on the website 24/7 and couldn't get 
 it off my mind for a second. I thought it was really smart, marketing wise, for the developers 
 to pre release information about the game. That way, people would be hooked right away. Well that's 
 what happened to me anyway. As the site started to add more and more info, I soon came to realize 
 that this new SSB would be one of the greatest games of all time! I ended up pre-ordering it back 
 in december then all I had to do was wait three months. Once the game was in my hands i couldn't 
 put it down it was all I expected it to be... and more. 
  Brawl is perfectly balanced. It has a perfect mixture of fun single player modes and an amazing 
 amount of multiplayer modes as well. In fact, i believe the strongest aspect of brawl is its multiplayer. 
 From highly customizable brawls, to the many different maps you can create and download (to download 
 brawl maps you need an SD card and reader, if you are wondering more about how to download maps 
 let me know vie e-mail or through gamespot) . 
  This game is an absolute masterpiece! A must have for all Wii owners! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hattersman
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 7, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  By reading these reviews online of SSBB, saying how its a great game I thought why not treat myself 
 - the only other game I have bought this year is Mass Effect for my 360 (which I haven't yet played, 
 damn RROD) . So anyway I booted it up and was impressed by the presentation and the menu music, 
 instantly I thought I had made a great purchase, my mistake.
  
  Once I played it for the first time my initial reactions was woah, great graphics but the gameplay 
 is a bit hectic. But I thought that after a while of playing I would get the hang of it. So i played 
 for a couple of hours that day, and a couple the day after but I realized, I'm getting no enjoyment 
 from this at all, only a headache from the quick movement.
  
  Too sum up, the game just doesn't appeal to me, I really wanted to like it but just couldn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gregdong
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2008 7:18 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is definitely the best in the series. It features a lot of characters from 
 different games such as sonic, mario, zelda, fox, etc. The game has a lot of different modes such as 
 classic mode, wi-fi, multiplayer and the main game SSE subspaced esstimary. This game is good for 
 wi-fi and you can spend hours on wi-fi with non stop fun. SSE is a good way to gain new characters 
 to battle with on wi-fi as you progress in SSE you gain more characters. Classic mode is the same 
 as the classic game battling the other players until reaching the final boss. Bonus Features include 
 old retro games such as fox-flying, donkey kong. etc. The one thing that ruins the game for me is 
 there is not enough gameplay on SSE and you get stuck on the last part as it goes through the same 
 parts of the game in a loop through a maze overall I am rating it 9\10 :) 
  
  Review written by G. DONG
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  have a nice day 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ecuador305
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 6, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  THE BEST GAME FOR WII! Thats all i have to say lol... The Game Has Online, Good Story Mode, Is 
 A Whole Lot Of Fun, Im Still playing it day after day and it has been months! i rlly have to say 
 this probably will be the best game for wii... if not, then i cant wait to play that game! Lol... 
 so if you have a wii then you should have this game... there are loads of new stuff like new items, 
 stages and of cousrse characters like sonic, sanke, ike, wolf, r. o. b, ect. new modes like boss 
 battles. you can collect trophies, stickers, and coins, there is also new events to do. And a new 
 thing called challanges witch you complete during gameplay like get 1000 k. o's, beat the story 
 mode, ect. At The End Of It All There Is Loads Of Gameplay... So go buy this game if you have not 
 because this game is revolutionary! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ironskull13
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 6, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  Super smash bros Brawl takes the awsomeness that was Melee and the origanal smash bros and built 
 on that awsomeness. When i went too the mid night release for this game i was first in line snd 
 i am only 12. But when i got this game home i played it until 8:30 in the morning i thank god i 
 did this because i still havent gotten 100% of the game done yet and when i say "100%" i mean trophies 
 and other stuff. But too me this game is revoulutionary in every way possible. This game goes along 
 with the best game ever made on the N 64 The Legend of Zelda Ocirana of Time. But anyways the roster 
 is bigger than ever, the story is simple but compeling, the game play is PHINOMINAL and but the 
 only change i would make is that i wish the online play was more like MKW but other than that this 
 game is perfection. As The Legend of Zelda Ocirana of Time went down in history as a great game 
 so will Super Smash Bros. Brawl!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twmilli
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 6, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  If you own a wii you simply have to get this game. It has any nintendo character you desire. The 
 online is a bit laggy but is still very solid. subspace emissionary makes a solid entry and although 
 not great it addes more to the game. It doesn't use motion controls but motion controls would be 
 hard to do if you are trying to get your opponent into a combo. You can use the game cube controller 
 if you don't want to get used to the wii controller controls 
  (I prefer the wii controller) . Once you get into this game you will find yourself going into training 
 mode and trying to train with your favorite character and get really good with them (personally 
 I like snake and olimar) . Once you can beat a level 9 then u can try to beat to opponets. 2 fives, 
 then 2 6's all the way up to 9's and then the same thing until u can beat 3 9's without dying. 
 Then you can go online and watch your hard work pay off. This game is awesome and is a must buy.
 
  GET IT NOW!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiwiiyo
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl in my opinion is the greatest fighting game in history. An amazing character 
 roster with over30+ characters has to make anyone happy. The graphics are the best a fighting game 
 can have. This game also has a lengthy, Awesome story mode with a great storyline. It's so great 
 you can understand the story without 1 person saying a word. I was so surprised at the end when 
 I saw Sonic come out of nowhere because I tried not to look on the back since I heard rumors about 
 spoilers being right on the back. The only thing I didn't like about this game is in story mode 
 Ganondorf bows down to the master hand. I know his name is MASTER hand, but GANONDORF! HOW COULD 
 YOU! at least at the end he had a really shifty face like he had an evil TISH plot. AN AMAZING 
 GAME. IF YOU DON'T HAVE IT BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragondude0
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  you can brawl with the famouse nintendo characters, or the two non nintendo characters, Sonic or 
 Snake. You can play the story mode called The Subspace Emissary, target smash. boss battles, home 
 run contest, or just brawl with your friends. With over 30 characters, and over 40 stages, the 
 brawls are very fun. Also, you can complete challenges and earn awsome trophies and stickers. There 
 is also music which you can unlock and listen to. Also, there is stage builder where u can build 
 your own stages to brawl on, and you can take snapshots of your most favorite and funny moments 
 in brawl. This is a great game to buy. I need 800 characters to finish this review... so here are 
 words that describe brawl...
  
  FUN ADDICTING FUNNY CHALLENGING SUPERLYAWSOMELYGOOD ADVENTURING COOL HOT EASY SWEET 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mightybrawler
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  Super smash bros brawl is my favourite Wii game so far. You can use the Wii remote, Wii and Nunchuk 
 combo, classic controller, or GameCube controller. There are tons of stages and characters. The 
 character roster in brawl is one of the greatest ever compiled. In total there are 41 unique stages. 
 You can build your own stages in brawl too. You can store up to 1000 stages, depending on your 
 remaining memory. The graphics in brawl are solid. I've seen a few Wii titles that are better, 
 visually, to the graphics in this game. There are a few texture chunks, although they don't interfere 
 with the actual experience. Obviously they had to cut a few corners to keep the game at a solid 
 60 frames per second. The FPS never drops, even with four player high intensity brawls. The audio 
 in this game is far superior, in my terms, to any other Nintendo game ever made. I've unlocked 
 all the songs, and let me tell you that every song in this game is wonderful to listen to. There 
 are over 120 songs at the beginning, and you can collect almost all the songs to obtain a whopping 
 258 songs. There are a few songs that are not obtainable, though. The sound effects are top notch, 
 and there are thousands of them! You can even choose the frequency of certain songs played on certain 
 stages, to your liking. The game play is simple yet effective. You might think this is a button 
 mashing game, but once you start playing it, you will get hooked. The controls are solid, except 
 for the Wii remote on its side. Customization is really the best thing about this game. There are 
 over 20 items, 35 characters, 6 colour options for most of them, and 41 stages plus custom ones. 
 There are a lot of rules you can change, plus there is a mode called special brawl, where you can 
 make your characters large, tiny, metal, flaming, invisible, and more. This game isn't short on 
 modes, either. I counted over 40 modes in brawl, but there are more than that. Online play works 
 fine, and if you have a good connection and/or router, can be lag free. There are a lot of limits 
 in online play with strangers. For playing with friends, you can choose more modes. The only real 
 complaint for playing with friends is that you have to register them with the most annoying thing 
 ever, friend codes! Otherwise, this game is feature packed till it hurts! There are hundreds of 
 trophies and stickers to collect, new rules to unlock, stage builder of course, plus coin launcher, 
 solo, multiplayer modes, movies, trailers, challenges, and a lot more! The multiplayer is the best. 
 There are so many options as I mentioned, plus online play makes it so that you can play multiplayer 
 battles even when no one is there at your house. Solo mode is the only disappointment about brawl. 
 The events mode is actually better this time, and so is the all star, but the classic mode isn't 
 as fun. There are new modes, such as stadium, which has a couple of different minigames like target 
 smash, and boss battles, which is new actually. Well for me all the solo modes were okay to play, 
 except the adventure mode. Now I know most people are going to disagree with me, but as a reviewer 
 and a gamer at the same time, I have to say that I liked the adventure mode the for the most part, 
 or subspace emissary as it's officially called. The only parts I was underwhelmed with and disappointed 
 with were the self scrolling levels, and the enemy designs. They seemed pretty usual for your daily 
 enemies. Well, most of them did! This is the most fun I have had since melee came out. Here I am, 
 about 5 months after the game's release, and I am still playing every mode, and learning new things 
 along the way. I never get bored of this game, and neither will you. This is the Wii's best action 
 game. I love this game, and no matter what people say about the flaws, there is so much value for 
 just $49.99.
  Best Wii game. Period. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolshadow54
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2008 1:44 am PT
Review:  this game is THE game of the 21st century, the best game on Wii so far.
  
  Gameplay:10/10
  Style:10/10
  Modes:8/10
  Overall: 10/10
  
  Gameplay: Now I'm no game 
 critic, but on the whole the gameplay IS revolutionary!
  
  Style: Being 3D with smooth graphics makes it a pleasure to play
  (excluding Mr. Game And Watch)
 
  
  Modes: These let me down a bit, seeing as Boss Battle Mode, All-Star Mode and Classic Mode are 
 very much alike.
  
  The idea of collecting trophies and CDs amazed me, I never would of thought. But I love the idea 
 of collecting CDs to listen to and trophies to gaze at. DO NOT COLLECT STICKERS! They are a waste 
 of time and I never felt any difference on the characters.
  But at least you get a trophy for collecting them...
  
  If you have any games you want me to 
 review, PM me.
  
  coolshadow54 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic__323
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2008 8:16 pm PT
Review:  I got Super Super Smash Bros. Brawl the first day it was released and I gotta to you that it's 
 just a awesome game. The gameplay is kinda new with new modes such as the adventure mode called 
 Subspace Emissary. Throughout the adventure mode you meet up with new characters and new small quick 
 adventures with the characters, you sometimes fight with other characters in order to proceed. There 
 are new items that are stickers that increase your character's powers. You can unlock some characters 
 during the adventure if they join you. Some of the new characters are Meta Knight, Pit, Lucairo, Zero 
 Suit  some other ones. The sound and music of the game is pretty 
 good in this game, you can put the songs you want on a stage that are selected for you to put. You 
 can also play online with other people and friends, but the thing that sucks about the online gameplay 
 is that it sometimes lags and it just kills the online gameplay. You can't make any custom matches 
 for online gameplay but you can watch battles of other people or friends and bet whos going to 
 win when you watch a battle. The trophies are back with at least 400+ and there is a minigame called 
 Coin Launcher in which you can win trophies and stickers by hitting targets and trophies. Overall 
 this game is just a masterpiece and I'll never stop playing this game it should deserve a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is finally here, and with a great online multiplayer added.
  
  This time there's a thin story in a Smash Bros. game, but still it's not much to get excited about 
 and sole purpose of it is to introduce the different playable characters. Adventure mode is played 
 as a 2D side-scroller and in small doses it's somewhat fun.
  
  Graphics especially in cutscenes are pretty much the best what Wii has to offer and the color palette 
 of a Nintendo rainbow is in all its glory at full use. Actual gameplay is little more humble in 
 its appearance, but that's forgivable since there's so much stuff happening on screen at once. 
 Luckily the frame rate stays solid all the time.
  
  Music is that familiar, over the top orchestrated Smash Bros. style, which works fine, but also 
 doesn't deliver anything new to the table. Sound effects are varied, because in Brawl environment 
 is also making noises in the heat of battle. Usually you're just too busy focusing on fighting 
 rather than enjoying the nice scenery or listening that awesome music.
  
  Controls are simple and responsive. Losing happens if you don't know what you're doing. Brawl is 
 clearly a skill based game and in order to succeed you need to know your environment, enemies and 
 of course your own abilities.
  
  Basic gameplay in a Smash Bros. game is a 2D arena, where 4 fighters beat the snot out of each 
 other. Everyone has their own numeric meter and when that number rises too high it's easy for other 
 players to knock that contender out of the screen and score points that way.
  
  Arenas are much more interesting than other fighting games, because these arenas live and change 
 as the fight goes on. This means that one crucial thing to master is to pay close attention to 
 one's environment. Both characters and arenas are heavily inspired by Nintendo franchises, with 
 some Sega's Sonic and Konami's Metal Gear added to the mix. If you have played Nintendo for a long 
 time chances are that you'll enjoy these different references a lot more than someone who is new 
 to Nintendo games.
  
  Even though the basic concept of Brawl is simple, there are lots of different things to unlock. 
 I'll guarantee that it'll take quite some time to get them all.
  
  Multiplayer is of course THE reason why people play a Smash Bros. game and this time there's a 
 very functional Wi-Fi play added and this alone makes Brawl the best game in this franchise. Fights 
 are fast, furious and unpredictable. All this is done with a light mood which Nintendo is known 
 for.
  
  Brawl is a polished game with very few flaws and it can be recommended to fans of previous games. 
 On the other hand if you didn't enjoy those previous installments this new Brawl is not going to 
 change your mind. I personally have never liked Smash Bros. games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingOfOdanata
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Not much extra to say for the game if you have played any of predecessors in terms of gameplay. 
 The fighting mechanics are the same although a few characters moves have changed. 
  The graphics of course are stupendous. The characters, stages, and animations for moves are clear 
 and colorful. 
  Great selection of stages and characters as well. Each stage is unique and allows for different 
 strategies. The cast of playable characters is great. Almost all the characters feel really unique 
 and play remarkably well. My one question for the makers: if you are going to remove clone characters 
 (Pichu, Dr. Mario, etc) why add Lucas and keep Toon Link? I actually enjoy playing all the characters 
 from either game and sometimes it was nice to change up the style a little. But, the wide range 
 of characters (ROB, Mr. Gameandwatch, Link, Mario, Sonic, Sold Snake, etc) is nice.
  The modes of play are great. Events are still here and that adds some difficulty in completeing 
 the game. Same with the Subspace emissary. Some very intriguing bosses on that mode. My problem 
 with the emissary was the lack of minions from other games. The emissary had tons of Mario and 
 original minions to fight but I feel that when you play on themed stages, such as Donkey Kong jungle 
 stages, you should be fighting minions from those games. This would have added alot more variety 
 to that mode. Honestly, using the same types of minions over and over seemed a bit lazy.
  The stage editor was a great idea but it wasn't well developed. Alot of the stages you can make 
 seem really generic unless you do something goofy like have falling blocks or springs every where. 
 Still, it's fun to mess with and you get to see lots of different music choices when making the 
 stages.
  Speaking of music, the sound is great on the game. Each character's moves have great SFX and the 
 stage music is great. Plus, you can unlock all kinds of music to listen to from older games. That's 
 really nice if you are a nintendo fan.
  For the control schemes, I've only tried two-the Wii remote and the Nunchuk add on. The Wii remote 
 works but sometimes the buttons seem in the wrong place (like for grapple) or they don't react 
 right. The nunchuk is better in that instance but the joystick can be a nuisance if you tilt your 
 hand left or right but still press forward for up. Then again, maybe it's just me. I imagine the 
 other two control shemes are better.
  The major issue is one- the luck in the falling items. Of course, you can turn them off or set 
 which ones you want on, but that's not much fun. The big issues are the assist trophies, pokeballs, 
 and the Final Smashes. Some assist trophies and pokeballs are terrible and you have to be lucky 
 to get the good ones. With the final smashes, some characters final smashes are terrible (i. e. 
 Princess Peach) . But alas, they are still fun to use.
  Overall, the game is fantastic and one of the best fighting games ever. I would suggest this game 
 for any Wii owner or fighting game aficionado. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brucemak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  My usual 'story beats out gameplay' idea doesn't apply to all games. This game is one of them. 
 There is no story just one simple idea, beat the crap out of that gay Yoshi. 
  The game looks awesome, so many maps, characters, unlockables, and other stuff that by the time 
 you unlock everything chances are the wii will be able to play blu-ray discs. 
  The gameplay hasn't changed much over the course of the three smash bros titles, which is good. 
 Nintendo doesn't need to change it. They did add things, alot of things. Smash balls, these colorful 
 balls can be a lifesaver, or the most annoying thing in the world. Retro stages brings more of 
 the old in with more of the new. CD tracks and the stage builder will never make this game boring. 
 This is an awesome all around game for any video game fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waZelda
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  Brawl is the third game in the franchise, and in case you've had your head stuck in the sand for 
 the past two gaming generations, let me clue you in on the concept. Super Smash is a combination 
 of a plattformer and a fighter. The fighting is 2D, you jump and attack and you try to knock your 
 enemy out of the stage, but first you'll have to inflict damage. The more damage, the further they'll 
 fly.
  
  Another special thing about the concept is that all the characters are from Nintendo's most successful 
 franchises and games. They have special moves and different stats. The stages also suit the different 
 franchises and so does the items that will appear during battle. In that sense I guess Super Smash 
 is the Mario Kart of fighting games.
  
  Melee was a great game and therefore not much has been changed. You can even play with the Game 
 Cube controller, in case you like that better than the clas. sic controller the wii remote and the 
 wii remote + nunchuck. Even if you play with the remote, it doesn't try to take advantage of the 
 motion system. I think they have made the right decision, because it wouldn't feel right to play 
 super smash with motion controls.
  
  One of the improvements they have made, though, is to add an adventure mode that is not just a 
 somewhat different version of clas. sic. The subspace emissary is a side-scrolling adventure wrapped 
 up in a story. There are several different missions and the gameplay works great. It is hardly 
 different from playing other parts of the game, but the enemies are different and you don't knock 
 them of stage. Adventure mode can also be played cooperative with two players, but I think the 
 adventure mode appeals more to singleplayers.
  
  About the story. It seems their tactic is to use cool graphics and great cutscenes to cover the 
 fact that the story isn't that good. And it works! The cutscenes are some of the coolest in gaming 
 history and seeing characters from different franchises teaming up to fight evil is just epic. 
 So you easily fail to notice that the story itself is a little messy and sometimes don't make sense. 
 But still, the cutscenes are just so great. About 45 minutes in total. I never felt like skipping 
 them, but if you want to, it is possible to skip (using -) .
  
  The thing about adventure mode most gamers tend to hate is the Great Maze. I won't go in details, 
 but the maze is really big. However I really liked it and the boss fight at the end is quite entertaining. 
 You will probably use 8 hours or so to clear the adventure mode.
  
  Clas. sic mode is back, but it isn't what it used to be. There is not much of the normal one on 
 one battle. Often you fight against two enemies (with an ally) , against a team, a giant enemy or 
 a metal enemy. Personally I think that there should be more one on one and I would prefer if it 
 wasn't as random who you were gone face. I liked the concept in the original better. The giants 
 are also too hard compared to the others. I have experienced losing no lives on the first three 
 stages, then losing three lives against giant Bowser. As usual in clas. sic, master hand is too 
 easy. I also think it is a shame they cut the multi-man stage and that they chose to have two target 
 practices and cut "run to the finish."
  
  The events are entertaining. Too many of them are just normal fights if you ask me, but there are 
 also other missions such as one where you can only knock your enemies out when you are in the sky, 
 if you knock them of at another time, they only return. Most of the events are good and the coop 
 events work well too. A lot of them are too easy for a veteran. I think I beat more then half the 
 events on first attempt on hard level.
  
  In general though, the difficulty is better in Brawl. Thanks God they finally cut the "very easy" 
 difficulty. This is one of the few Nintendo games that will actually challenge you. "Hard" difficulty 
 is a little hard and "very hard" difficulty is really very hard. And if that's not enough for you, 
 "intense" difficulty has been added. Though it is a shame they don't have more than three difficulties 
 on events. However it is an improvement from in Melee when there was only one difficulty.
  
  Stadium is back with target smash, homerun contest, multi-man Brawl and a new mode that can 
 be unlocked. It is disappointing that they've chosen to have five difficulties on target practice 
 instead of having one unique level for each character. Also, the hardest difficulty isn't that 
 hard. It was better when they had unique levels, because when it has to be possible to beat a level 
 with all characters, it will be easy with some characters.
  
  I believed the new glass in homerun contest would take away some of the challenge, but it don't. 
 It is still challenging, it is just more intense, which is great. I prefer it over homerun contest 
 in Melee. On both target practice and homerun contest you can go cooperative. It isn't a bad addition, 
 but I think it would be better if you had the opportunity to compete instead. Except from there 
 being a new team, multi-man is just as in Melee, neither any better nor any worse.
  
  If you like setting goals and go for it, challenges is a great addition. At first there is just 
 a lot of blue squares, but behind each square there is a reward. When you get one, some of the 
 nearby will become red, and you can see what you need to do to unlock that reward. A reward can 
 be a trophy, a soundtrack, a stage or something else.
  
  There are a lot of soundtracks in the game. More than 300 in total, meaning an average of 7.5 songs 
 on each of the 41 courses. The soundtracks are good and in "My music," you can listen to them and 
 adjust their probability of coming on a course. The composer have done a brilliant job at the best 
 soundtracks. There is like 30 great soundtracks, 210 good and 60 not that good. On the best soundtracks 
 they seem to remake songs that are already great and make it even better. I think the Ocarina of 
 Time medley is probably the most beautiful gaming music ever made.
  
  The graphics won't let you down either. It is brilliant artistic design, though not quite at the 
 same level as Super Mario Galaxy and Twilight Princess. You can even take snapshots in the game 
 and get them on either an SD-card or on your console memory. If you want you can also save replays.
 
  
  The boring lottery in Melee has been replaced with the much funnier coin launcher in Brawl. You 
 shoot coins either at the trophies that pass by to get them or at the enemies to be rewarded with 
 stickers. You also have to shoot down the missiles that will steal coins from you. The trophies 
 you win you can line up, or you can check them out one by one and read a little about them. The 
 stickers can be used as power-ups. If you want to get both all stickers, and all trophies, there 
 are more than 1200 to collect.
  
  If SSBB itself is not enough for you, you can play demos of a total of 12 games available on VC. 
 The demos are pretty short, and it is hardly any point in playing F-Zero when you don't even have 
 time for a single lap, but some are fun. You can challenge yourself and see how far you can come. 
 Can you beat the first level in Super Mario Bros before the time runs out? Nintendo has also added 
 "Chronicle," telling a little about Nintendo's history of released games.
  
  This game is large. There is 35 characters, although in some way it is 39 since Samus can also 
 transform into Zero Suit Samus, Zelda can transform into Sheik and Pokmon Trainer plays as Squirtle, 
 Ivysaur and Charizard. They have also thrown in unexpected characters. Sonic and Solid Snake are 
 not from Nintendo franchises. The characters are better balanced than in Melee, even though some 
 of them are still not that good.
  
  It is disappointing that they haven't cut all the clones from Melee. They have even added some 
 new. I can understand that both Fox and Falco are too popular to cut, but why throw in Wolf as 
 a third clone? And why throw in a Ness-clone called Lucas that most non-Japanese gamers have never 
 even heard of?
  
  The courses are also improved and I like them better than in Melee. There is very few static stages, 
 there is mostly a lot happening. Items are not much better, but I love the new "superspicy curry" 
 and the smart bomb is good as well.
  
  However of course the smash ball is the biggest innovation. The one that first manages to beat 
 the ball, will unleash his or hers unique final smash. Such as Ganondorf transforming into Gannon, 
 Donkey kong beating his drums or Kirby cooking a meal of you. Mostly, this is fun, but it is a 
 shame that some final smashes are far more powerful than other. Olimars final smash might knock 
 out all enemies while Ness' might not even take any damage if your enemies are good at dodging.
 
  
  Also added is online play. There is no rating system and you can't communicate, so playing against 
 random players online is just a little better than playing against CPU's. When playing against 
 friends you can write messages and connect them to your three taunts before you play, but apart 
 from that, there's no communication, so it is nothing close to the fun of battling against them 
 in the same room.
  
  Maybe the best thing about Brawl is that you can play it in any way you like. First of all, you 
 can choose which of the four controller options you will use. You can also customize the controls, 
 for instance if you (like me) prefer to jump with the L button and not with the control stick. 
 Secondly, there is three ways to unlock characters. If you only like multiplayer, you will unlock 
 them all by playing a certain number of matches. Most of the characters can also be unlocked in 
 Subspace Emissary and there is I third way for each of them. You can also choose what you consider 
 as finished with the game singleplayer. If you just want to take subspace emissary, if you want 
 to clear all challenges or if you want to beat every single mode on the hardest difficulty with 
 all characters.
  
  This is one of the best games ever made, but not completely flawless. I would give it 10 if I didn't 
 have to be objective, but because of some issues with the difficulty, the final smashes being poorly 
 balanced, the story being a little messy and the target practice being disappointing, I will give 
 it 9.5. However you can hardly find a game with better playback value than this one and I'm sure 
 I'll still be playing it twenty years from now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xlrb5
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2008 12:00 am PT
Review:  I love this game. It's the best game in my opinion that Nintendo has every made. I can not wait 
 to see if they make another Super Smash Bros. that out does Brawl. Imagine if Nintendo did make 
 another Brawl. Just picture how big it would be but, if they did they would have alot of work on 
 their hands but any way let me write about the game and not what I want to happen. Brawl is a great 
 game to give to a friend or family member who has a Wii. Great for all ages even if it says it's 
 rated T for teen. Everyone in you family will love this game unless they don't like games or just 
 hate Mario (just like my brother) ........... Other than that the game play itself is just truly 
 amazing because you get to walk around on quest to save the world from Taboo the boss of the game. 
 Classic charaters like Mario, (of course.) Peach, Luigi, Bowser, Link, Zelda, Ganondorf, Ness, 
 Pikachu, Fox, Falco, Captain Falco, Marth, Samus, Mr. Game and Watch, Donkey Kong, The Ice Climbers, 
 and Jiggly Puff . There's also a whole bunch of new Charaters like Ike, (Why Ike? Why did you replace 
 Roy? WHY!!!!) Wario, Toon Link, Wolf, Diddy Kong, Snake, Pokemon Trainer, Lucas, Lucario, and Sonic 
 (Who Rocks!!!) , Zero Suit Samus, (Who I think is HOT!!!!) and Olimar. The moves rock and the entire 
 game itself rocks. Hope this helped sorta. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: copp62
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  i'm going to start this review by talking about the story mode which isn't the best thing to do 
 in super smash but it does unlock all the fighters and is pretty fun to play for a while! but overall 
 i wouldn't buy this game for the story mode. what you would buy this game for is the multiplayer 
 or as it is called in the game brawl which you can play by yourself but everything is better with 
 more people! the game is like or is a updated version of super smash bros. melee as in more places, 
 more people, more length, and more unlockables and better graphics! there are a lot of new characters 
 like snake, pit, sonic, and much more! and a new special that each fighter has but in order to 
 use it you have to smash the smash ball which is pretty sweet. there are four ways to play and 
 you'll play every way untill you find the perfect one but my favorite is the gamecube controller 
 only cause that was the first thing i used when i played melee. the game offers a lot of items 
 and just like melee you can turn them on or off. the game does have trail versions for virtual 
 console games like Zelda super Mario bros. that you'll play for about 15 minutes or so. so overall 
 you get a game that well last you months, years?? so that's why i give super smash i 9.5 out of 
 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VideoGameNerd77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 7:31 am PT
Review:  Like it's prequels, Brawl is an excellent Nintendo fighting game. It's a very good sequel, but 
 it has its problems.
  
  Gameplay - 9/10
  The gameplay is excellent. The fighting is intense, and there is never a dull moment. However, 
 it sometimes seems like the enemy CPU opponents gang up on you and generally ignore the other opponents 
 unless you're playing with other human players. Also, the story mode is too short.
  Graphics - 10/10
  The graphics are excellent. Explosions, lighting, and excellent stage, character, 
 and item design makes the game's graphics almost better than the actual gameplay. Like it's prequel, 
 there are many events that go on in the background in each stage. However, this time around, nearly 
 every single stage has some sort of event going on at different times that effect gameplay greatly, 
 while it's prequel had only a few stage events, and most of them didn't effect gameplay to the 
 extent that the events do in Brawl.
  Sound - 8/10
  The sound is perhaps the only let-down in the game. Though item sounds are very good, much of the 
 voice acting is flat-out terrible. For example, Ganondorf's character model looks elderly, yet 
 his voice is very high pitched. The melee sound effects aren't any less terrible. Punching sound 
 effects sound much quieter and low-quality.
  
  Summary - 9.5/10
  The game, though very good, does have its problems. Still, it's a great game, and is sure to be 
 played by both those new to Smash Bros. and those who have played the game before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swedeishmeatbal
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  The Super Smash Bros. are back for the third time! This time they are brawlin'. This incredible 
 game for the will features new characters and gameplay elements that are a massive improvement 
 on its predecessors. The level editor is extremely fun as I have spent hours designing levels for 
 me and my buddies to play on. The level editor is solid, although I would have liked to see more 
 things to put in my levels. Others may disagree, but I enjoyed the single player story mode a lot. 
 It provides hours of classic platform/fighting levels similar to any beat em up side scrolling 
 arcade game to enjoy either by yourself or with a friend. I also like how they implemented co-op 
 play for almost every single player mode.
  Although some features, such as the smash ball are an annoyance. I would have liked to see the 
 Final Smash moves implemented in a way better than fighting over a floating ball. The online play 
 is great fun, but is very flawed. I would have liked to see a game lobby and the ability to host 
 games on your console and more flexibility with multiplayer settings. Nonetheless, this is a solid 
 game and a must own for the Wii, because quite frankly, there is a small collection of games for 
 the Wii that are actually worth playing, this is one of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrpody
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Okay for one, the game is not slower than melee. I was worried about that when I read that it was. 
 But if you look on youtube a a gameplay video a melee, and then oneof Brawl, you will see that 
 it's not slower. If anything it's faster. At first I thought I might not be able to handle the 
 game when I first saw a video of it. Secondly, the graphics are much better than melee. There is 
 a huge difference. Thirdly, the Subspace emmisary is something new and refreshing IMO. If you are 
 tired of just beating up other players, then try it. You are still beating up badguys, but you 
 get to go through levels and walk around and stuff while doing it. It is worth completeing and 
 it is aneasier way of unlocking characters besides just fighting until you unlock one. Next, the 
 final smashes. The final smashes are a very unique idea. It is fun battling for the smash ball, 
 and it can help someone who is losing, win. Don't get me wrong, you can't win with the final smash 
 alone, but they sure do help. Assit trophies are also new. The help out whoever releases them. 
 However, some of them just get in your way. Another new installment to Brawl is the masterpieces. 
 What they are, they are demos of older games, (kind of like the virtual console without paying 
 for them) that you can play once you have unlocked them. There are plenty to unlock, like Kid Icarus, 
 or the Ice Climbers. Just stuff like that. There also is a little mini game where you can shoot 
 coins and earn trophies. But I wont't go into to that. Moving on to the characters now. There are 
 many characters to choose from now. Some characters from melee like Pichu and Young Link didn't 
 make it into Brawl. Young Link was replaced with Toon Link who is basiclly the same, just a cartoon 
 version. Newer characters like Lucario have a special fighting style. With Lucario, the more damage 
 you take, the more powerful you become, which can sometimes be really helpful. Most of the characters 
 are basiclly the same and the new ones are cool. Now for the online. The online play is also something 
 new to Brawl. It is very fun and you can find some people who are really tough. But there are some 
 flaws to it. For one it lags alot. It would be perfect if it didn't. For the most part it doesn't 
 lag, but when it does, it really lags. It is great though for those who don't have friends to play 
 the game with. The team battles are fun, and if someone quits on you, they are just replaced with 
 CPU. And a neat little thing is, when you are waiting to find someone to fight, it puts you in 
 a little room with a sandbag, and you can practice your moves on it while waiting. And Another 
 cool thing is, you can watch other people fight, and bet coins on who you think will win. You have 
 to earn the coins from the Subspace Emmisary though. Well, overall I give this game a perfect score. 
 This game is a great game, but if you just plan on buying the game for yourself, or dont have any 
 friends who would play it with you, it's not as fun. This game is more of a multiplayer game. Thats 
 why I do think the online is a great idea for those who dont have anyone to play the game with. 
 This game is enjoyable for all ages. (except mabye the elderly might not enjoy the game so much) . 
 However, if you have a wii, and you enjoy fighting games, you should get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thefearishere07
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Okay, where to start.
  1) the graphics:
  some of the best graphics i have ever seen on the Wii since Super Mario Galaxy. Each player it 
 detailed very well, and the stages and backgrounds are also some of the best i have seen. With 
 things happening in the background aswell as the brawling. Its just so awesome :P.
  2) Gameplay:
  This game is so easy to pick up, for master gamers to new people to the game/console. 
 Each move is easy to pull of now matter what control sceam your using (wiimote, wiimote w/ nuchuck, 
 gamecube pad or classic controler) . If your a far of the gamecube version or smash bros. then i 
 recomend using a gamecube pad or the wiimote. Eather way its all fun and eays to use.
  3) the Story:
  Its got quite a good story to it. There isn't any voise acting for any of the players 
 in brawl the story is quite well explained just throw what they are doing. Love the idea of diffrent 
 storys going on at once but they all bump into each other near the end.
  4) charectors (bad spelling _) :
  You have your Melee players here but also some newcomers to 
 the roster also. From Pit to Snake every player on the game is awesome and have there own unique 
 moves, taunts, final smash, etc. and i love having Snake and Sonic in the game it adds to the fun.
 
  
  
  conclution:
  AWESOME TO THE MAX!!!!!!! XD but i would seriously consider buying this game its gotta be one of 
 the best games ever for the Wii if not THE BEST. :P.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lukeitch
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  Nearly perfect, only I wonder what they can add to it???? Pointing out whats bad with it is virtually 
 impossible. The multiplayer is perfect and I will argue with anyone who says otherwise, single 
 player is nearly perfect. I love the events, Classic mode, great, Sub Space Emissary, is the nearly 
 perfect part, I love it but I was hoping for more. Next time, they should do it as one whole thing. 
 What I mean is no menu, no inter level stuff, make it all one big level with save points along 
 the way. Online was dodgey to begin with but is now nearing perfection. You can play with anyone 
 from around the world, team up with anyone or battle friends and rivals. If you get bored with 
 that you can use Spectator mode and gamble coins on who will win. 
  
  Basically, you buy it, love it and cannot wait for the next one
  
  Brilliant 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SepherVigoroth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  This game has a great opening, great characters, awesome attacks and moves, and awesome graphics. 
 The game influences people to play the game and some people when they play it, sometimes the person 
 may have trouble learning how to play the game. The controls are not that complicated but the earlier 
 games isn't hard to control the characters. The Final Smash for the characters are awesome and 
 you don't even get hurt while you are in Final Smash. It looks cool when you select your character 
 you are able to change the color of the character. I like Sonic in the dark blue color and the 
 green bracelet. The graphics of this game is great. There are pokeballs that you can send out, 
 my favorite pokemon you can send out is Lugia, Lugia helps you a lot. Also, I really like it how 
 you can battle people around the world by Wi-Fi battling people. Overall, the game is really great 
 and I liked the game very much! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattydman2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 3:49 am PT
Review:  This game is probably the best you can buy on the Wii. It's very hard to flaw this game.
  
  
  Graphics- The graphics are really good which most Wii games don't have. Even characters like 
 
  Bowser and Mario have had their fair share (ha it rhymes) of graphic updates, which is hard
  
 to top off. The cut-scenes have outstanding detail, which will make you want to watch each cut-scene
 
  from start to finish.
  
  Game play- Game play is very important in games - and this HAS it. Playing in so many stages
 
  that are so different from each other, so this game has stages for everyone. Practially every
 
  character has their own stage, so that's cool. The fact that 4 players can play at a time is
 
  really fun, 4 players! Don't worry if you can't face people, you can battle it out with the
  cpu =P. There is loads of items to pick up to aid you in battle, and each character is unique.
 
  
  
  Music- I must say, this is one point that really shines. Not much games have awesome, non-
  repetitive 
 music (Pokemon, stop with the same tunes!) , but this one has got it. With old tunes
  like ocarnia of time, to new ones like final destination, which all sound fantastic. Even
  the 
 old tunes have had a little rework to make them sound perfect for brawling =D You also
  unlock music, which gives a meaning to the music so it's not all there when you start.
  
  Online- 
 I haven't been online myself (wi-fi) , but seeing other videos and such this game
  is full of online battling. As we no a 4 way battle is awesome, but against other people
  around 
 the globe! That's insane! There is a lot of fun awaiting wi-fi users it must be said.
  Unfortunately it does lag a bit since so many players are on wi-fi but its hardly noticeable.
 
  
  
  
  So there you have it, a really good game that's a must first game. And if you're thinking
  of 
 buying a new game for the wii, this is one to look at. i rate this 9.5/10. Great game,
  but nothing's perfect!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaney991
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Ok where to start.... This game is worth buying and playing i am 120% sure that u will gain something 
 out of this game. You will keep playing this game over and over and over again. 
  
  There is so much to do and get that it almost makes it impossible to finish the game fully with 
 everything done. The mulitplayer is wonderful and great. You can friends over play it for hours 
 and still not get bored and still have fun.
  
  There is a story mode if u want to play alone (Sub Space Emissary) It is a fun story and very enjoyable 
 but it was a little corny tho = ( . You may also want to play that story wth a friend in co-op =) . 
 After u have finished the story and done it on or just tired of playing it you could try the event 
 matchs. If you dont know wat event matchs are its where u play all these events as a certain character 
 and as u proceed it keeps getting harder. 
  
  If the event is your thing then go to the stadium where u can see how fast beat targets or vs heaps 
 of multi men or possibly see how far u can hit a sand bag wth a bat (see if u can beat my score 
 648m) . 
  
  There is lots more stuff but i dont want to give away to much i want u guys to find some of it 
 out. So i suggest u buy this game if u have a wii. Two thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Renzovel
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  The important reason to have a Wii is that you are eager to see Nintendo characters, including 
 Solid Snake and Sonic, bash out at the fight arena wherever, whenever and whatever the action is. 
 Super Smash Bros. Brawl is something that sticks to your head for a very long time even if Nintendo 
 releases a new console in the future. Whether you are at home or you are at work and you have a 
 stressed out day, your brain cells tell you that you must play this game over and over and over 
 again. With a multiplied roster, a diverse number of features and some kick-butt Final Smashes (like 
 the ones of Zelda, Fox, Link, etc) . I'm eager to find out who is anyone's TOP 5 CHARACTERS of the 
 game. Smash Bros is a prime example of all characters of a first-party developer coming together 
 for a fight and it shows how united Nintendo is in the face of stiff competition from XBox 360 
 and PS3. Super Smash Bros. Brawl is the main reason and the real deal why everyone must have a 
 Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgreco_1988
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The graphics in SSB: B look a lot like the gamecube version, although they are much more 
 detailed. But by saying they look like the SSB: M im definitely not knocking the look of this game. 
 It looks great. The character models are well designed. The animations look fluid. The level designs 
 are very clever. Overall the graphics are quite good.
  
  Gameplay: The cool thing about Brawl is that it lets you play the game in many different ways. 
 There is an option to use the classic controller, the gamecube controller, you can flip the wiimote 
 on its side, or just use the old nunchuk wiimote combo. However you decide to play the game works 
 just fine though, as all of the options work. But, this too is set up much like Meelee. There is 
 the basic attack button, the smash attacks, the double jumps.. its all here.. New to brawl though 
 are the character specific "special" attacks. These are activated by desroying little smash bros 
 logos that float around. Brawl also has a much more substantial single player campain which takes 
 around 8 to 10 hours to complete. 
  
  Sound: Personally, i love the SB theme song. It is incredibly motivating for me. But anyways, the 
 music in this game (much like everything else) is just right. It has a nice epic type of theme. 
 The levels have different variations of the classic game songs from the various themed locations. 
 You can even unlock the songs to play whenever you want.
  
  Multiplayer: Yessss... This is the reason everyone should by this game. Multiplayer is the best 
 part of any smash brothers game. Up to 4 players can compete against each other in a very large 
 number of stages, some even from SSB: M. There is even online play. You can either enter people's 
 friend codes, or play with random people. While playing online there is very little lag. There 
 are many options to the multiplayer as well.. You can choose which items you want to appear and 
 how often you want them to appear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmayaPapaya
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  The much anticipated game for the wii arrived! Is it worth all the suspense... YES! I myself was 
 looking forward to this game over a year and it was worth the wait. Enough on how we all expected 
 this greatness and loved it. But, what is this greatness?
  You ever want a straight forward game that is easy to use, but at the same time the game you can 
 make it easy, or hard as heck? Brawl can do that. The controls are so simple yet you can do so 
 many combos, that most games that require many buttons don't have. BUT... BUT HOW?!? It's really 
 simple. Your *main* two buttons are A or B (Note*: There is more than just "A "and "B" as Brawl 
 lets you do 4 different types of controls [For example the wii remote uses 1 and 2 ] ) . As noted 
 above... YES YOU DO USE FOUR DIFFERENT TYPES OF CONTROLS! Those types are...
  Classic Controller, The Wii Remote, The Wii Remote and Nunchuck, and the most widely used GameCube 
 Controller! In order to KO you opponent you must raise their percentage at the bottom then knock 
 them off stage! Don't worry there is SOOO MUCH MORE! Lets get to the main point. The reason everyone 
 bought Brawl was to "brawl". The controls work perfectly if you want to know that. you press "A" 
 it goes smoothly. You wanna shield you shield. BUT... The exciting part are the different modes 
 of brawl!
  First off you start off with choosing your character. You may choose:
  
  
  1Mario
  2Link
  3Fox 
  4Pikachu
  5Falco
  6Ganondorf
  7Samus
  8Zelda
  9Sheik
  10Peach
 
  11IceClimbers
  12Donkey Kong
  13Yoshi
  14Bowser
  15Kirby
  16Pit
  17Wario
  18Pokemon Trainer
  19Diddy Kong
  20Meta Knight
  21Snake*
  22Sonic
  23Ike
  24Zero Suit 
 Samus
  25Lucas
  26King DeDeDe
  27Pikmin And Olimar
  28Ness
  29Luigi
  30Mr. GameAndWatch
  31CaptinFalcon
  32ToonLink
  33Jigglypuff :p
  34R. O. B
  35Marth
  36Lucario
 
  37Wolf*
  
  THEN FIGHT!
  In a couple years you start to get board of the brawl style... change it! you can do that with special 
 brawl by making yourself METAL, CLEAR, and MORE.
  
  If you ever feel this game is missing something from what I've got so far then, HOLD IT! Believe 
 it or not SSB finally got a single player! Fight Villains of there own in about 10 to 12 hours 
 of game play! Personally, that's pretty big for a fighting game! There is no words, but the characters 
 speak for themselves in their actions. It's the average "Good Vrs. Evil"
  
  Does this game get to easy for you... then adjust the setting! We all know games when you set them 
 to hard your like, "anyone could beat this!". In brawl they have 3 different kinds of hard:
  Hard (saw that)
  Very Hard (WOW TOTALLY NORMAL)
  Intense (Yeah sa... wait what)
  I myself 
 have played Intense and the name speaks for itself. Delivering all your focus isn't enough. It 
 would take you about a year of hours to beat it like it was on very easy!
  
  Wait... more. YES! Even still getting more bored. Then play home run contest, Multiman Brawl or 
 target test. Home run contest you start with 10 sec., and try to raise the Targets ( a punching 
 bag-like thing with eyes) percentage as mush as possible then hit a grand slam! Target test, you 
 hit targets presented to you as fast as possible. Multiman Brawl to fight cpu "Alloys" with many 
 different ways. Some you just try to KO as many super easy Alloys as possible, others you KO as 
 many super hard Alloys as possible.
  
  Time to talk about challenges! If you have an XBOX 360 you would know that the xbox give you challenges 
 to makes games more worth your while. That is precisely what Brawl does! Do so called Challenges 
 to raise you percentage!
  
  Wait is that it!? Yes sadly i think i have given far enough info! Is there more to this game? Their 
 is a lot more i just don't think i should review everything!
  All thats left is the Overview
  
  
  Gamplay: 10 Amazing! (stated above)
  
  Music: 10 
 10 10 (best there is)
  
  Story: 9 No real story with words but they maintained the characters personalities with actions
 
  
  Graphics: 9 Great Graphics!
  
  Audience: Anybody and Everybody!
  
  Worth Buying: Of Course
  
  Conclusion: Must have for the Wii. If you dont have go hide your 
 wii until you do because you'll be embarrassed when someone asks if you do!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DDDZX
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  In SSBB you play as all your favorite Nintendo all stars form mario to link to kirby. This as been 
 quoted "The brawl to end them all", and it may just do that with 35 characters to play with from 
 all your nintendo favorites you will find yourself into the game for hours.
  
  This addition to the super smash bros series brings back all your favorite game modes along with 
 a better adventure mode that is actually what you can call an adventure. The adventure mode brings 
 all the brawl stars together to solve a strange series of events in the nintendo universe. You will 
 play through familiar maps as well as new ones.
  
  Learning to play this game is fun and easy and takes only about 10-20 minutes and is really fun 
 to start off with and only gets better as you play further into the game.
  
  The online is a great feature added to the game. You can play with anyone from around the world 
 as well as your friends. Brawling online adds a whole new twist to an old classical game.
  
  The game offers brand new never before seen maps and characters as well as old maps and old friends. You 
 are also given the feature now to create your own maps and share them with your friends over nintendo 
 wi-fi.
  
  Well thats the end of my review. Be sure to check out SSBB, you will find yourself plenty to do 
 and can be bought for about 35-40 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGshade
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl (SSBB) is one of the best games on Wii. Let's get that out of the way. It 
 accessible to anyone, with 4 control schemes, tons of characters, old and new, too many stages 
 to count, and more.
  
  First off, we'll start with the visuals and audio. This is one of the best looking games on Wii. 
 Although it doesn't measure up to anything on the 360 or the PS3, they look good for the Wii. Actions 
 run fluidly, no matter how fast paced they are. The audio isn't revolutionary, but it gets the 
 job done. With many grunts of pain, tons of "Yahoo!"s and more, the sound effects and music are 
 fitting. One interesting thing I found was the unlockable music, in which u pick up CD's in game, 
 which unlock new tunes.
  
  The Super Smash Bros. series has always been about the characters. Everyone's favourites return, 
 which include Mario, Donkey Kong, Link, Pikachu, Luigi, Captain Falcon, Kirby, Ness, and more. 
 But the best part are the newer characters. Some new characters include Ike, from Fire Emblem: 
 Path of Raidiance, Meta Knight, from the Kirby series, Olimar, from Pikmin, Pit, from Kid Icarus, 
 and the Pokemon Trainer (I think you can figure that one out) are all new additions to the roster. 
 I was disappointed in some characters, though. Lucas is almost a clone of Ness, with almost completely 
 similar moves, and Toon Link, is a cuter version of Link, with the same actions. This disappointed 
 me.
  
  You can control your character in a variety of ways. You can use the Wii Remote, the Wiimote and 
 Nunchuk, the GC controller, or the VC controller. For the Wiimote (alone) you hold the remote sideways, 
 using the control pad to move and the 1 and 2 buttons to attack. Using the B button on the back 
 for throws and to block felt akward, though. The nunchuk combo is similar to the single version, 
 but you use the nunchuk to move. The GC controller is the exact same to Melee. I don't have a VC 
 controller, so I wouldn't know how that worked.
  
  The single player portion of SSB has been mastered with the Subspace Emmisary, a mode in which 
 you go on a platforming adventure with different characters, fighting enemies and bosses, eventually 
 trying to defeat the mysterious leader of the Subspace army. It's amazingly fun, and I think that 
 this is an improvment over the Classic mode (which is still included) . Also in single player, Training 
 Mode, the Home Rune contest, Target Smash and more return.
  
  The biggest part of SSB though is the multiplayer. You simply choose characters and CPU difficulties 
 (if any) , a game mode, ranging from Timed matches, to stock, and coin matches. Then you pick a 
 stage, which included the time-following Smashville stage, to the element-changing Pokemon Stadium. 
 Back are some Melee stages, as well, which you can unlock throughout the game.
  
  Gameplay has been completely renovated. There are new items, including Assist Trophies, which summon 
 allies from previous games to help you out. But the largest addition is the Final Smash. When a 
 ball carrying the SSB emblem starts floating across the screen appears, the first to break it (by 
 attacking it) gets to use a Final Smash, in which your character does some form of animation (every 
 caracter has a different Final Smash) and does something that affects everything on the field. 
 I was disappointed at some of the Smashes, thought. Meta Knight must be beside a person to use 
 his (which is an instant KO) and Peach's simply puts everyone to sleep. This disappointed me a 
 little bit, but it was nothing major.
  
  Overall, Brawl is a great game in SSB series. With Wi-Fi capability, a Stage Builder, many challenges 
 to face, and more, anyone can have fun playing this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IM_4_GAME
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  Nintendo fans have been aticipating Brawl for a long time. Brawl is the third Smash Bros. game 
 released by Nintendo and Hal Laboratory. While Melee was the game in the series that perfected 
 Nintendo's own fighting system, Brawl was hoped to be even greater than Melee. Is it?
  
  Lets start off with the old, and there's a lot of it. Brawl has a good bunch of characters, but 
 many have been in previous entries of the series. In fact, the entire cast of the original N64 
 title are in Brawl. Many of the characters who appeared in both the original Smash, and Melee have 
 returned. This is a good thing and a bad thing. While your favorite character might be Luigi, you'll 
 be glad to see him return and be able to pick him up right away due to the fact that many character's 
 moves have been little changed from melee. On the bad side, you might not care for Ice Climbers, 
 or Jiggly Puff at all, and would have rather had Nintendo replace a few old characters with more 
 newcomers. Sadly, most of the newcomers are the ones featured on the site. Those fighters may be 
 good, but a lot of old characters have to be unlocked and there weren't too many shockers. Also, 
 since the older character's moves havn't changed since melee, you can jump in right away, but wouldn't 
 it be great if your favorites from Melee have some new moves? Third party support is okay, and 
 I'll leave it with that.
  
  Now for the new. One thing you'll probably pick up quick is the side-scrolling action platforming 
 story mode ( try saying that 3 times fast ) The Subspace Emissary. SSE's highlight wern't it's 
 levels or co-op mode, but the great CG cut scenes that range from plain old silly to awesome. Pushing 
 the Wii's graphical powers to the limit, the cut scenes were always fun to watch, and you can replay 
 them anytime you want. Playing the Subspace Emissary, is okay. Minor platforming with a huge amount 
 of arena based combat is playable, especially with a friend, but the SSE got really repetitive 
 fast, even the music ( which seemed to follow the same tune through almost every song ) . The only 
 reason I completed it was for the cut scenes and the ability to unlock every character through 
 the story, and not the other ways, some of the other ways to unlock characters are a bit too much. 
 Extras are plentiful in Brawl. There are collectable trophies, stickers, and music tracks to find 
 throughout the game ( I should mention that the Coin Launcher game is addictive ) . Unfortunatly, 
 collecting every one of these things does follow the game's main theme, TOO MUCH. Tons of trophies 
 to collect, hundreds of stickers to find ( that I don't give a DAMN about, and 100+ music tracks 
 ( CDs aren't so bad, until you start getting songs from Mach Rider and Panel De Pon (WTF?) ) . I 
 didn't even mention the gigantic board of things that you can unlock during the game... TOO MUCH 
 CRAP! Stages are good, but completing Classic or All Star modes on Intense difficulty just to get 
 a trophy, is a bit brutal ( ACHEIVEMENTS NINTENDO ACHEIVEMENTS! If you get everything on that board, 
 I don't really care because half of the things on that god forsaken board are useless, and wont 
 effect the way you play the game at all!!!!!!!!!!!!! The Stage editor is the only part of the game 
 that dosen't feature TOO MUCH. First of, to get every stage part, you need to make up to 15 stages... 
 lame. Building stages could be more diverse and Nintendo made it so you could not make any stages 
 that would make the game crash or mad lag ( that's actually what I wanted to do with it! ) . You 
 can alter the music selection in each stage too, which is good, because you can turn all of the 
 Crush 40 off/on the Sonic stage and just have the retro/ Crush 40 songs playing in the background.
 
  
  Now to multiplayer, the best part. Kicking your friends butt never felt so good. A wide selection 
 of stages ( which are suprisingly well thought out ) help make your experience more enjoyable. 
 Online is a crying shame. Unless everyone of your friends/ random opponents have a T1 connection, 
 it will LAG LIKE A TURTLE!!! Sometimes my entire matches freeze up for minutes.
  
  All in all, Brawl is a good example that TOO MUCH of a good thing, is just plain old bad. You'll 
 love it at first, but a few months later you'll want to have nothing to do with that game, or you'll 
 discover MArio Kart Wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scaryness
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2008 3:09 am PT
Review:  If you thought the previous Smash Bros. games were unadulterated bliss, you might just keel over 
 from pure unbridled joy when you play Super Smash Bros. Brawl. The basic formula is unchanged as 
 up to four classic Nintendo characters pound each other into oblivion on raised platforms. But 
 Brawl sweetens the deal with more characters, dizzying stages, and a metric ton of stuff to unlock. 
 The action is fast and furious, and nothing warms my heart more than watching Kirby get his pink 
 ass beaten like a redheaded stepchild. People tend to love or hate the Smash Bros. series, but 
 it's hard to deny Brawl's astounding replay value. The expanded cast of characters includes many 
 faces that casual gamers may find unfamiliar, including Pit (Kid Icarus) , King Dedede (Kirby) , 
 Meta Knight (Kirby) , Ike (Fire Emblem) , Lucas (Earthbound) , Olimar (Pikmin) , and Pokemon Trainer. 
 Pokemon Trainer is a young man that lurks in the background of each stage and let you control various 
 Pokemon characters like Squirtle, Charizard, and Ivysaur. The pudgy Meta Knight is a great new 
 addition, and "Zero Suit" Samus is hot! The most exciting new characters however are Sonic the 
 Hedgehog and Snake (of Metal Gear fame) . So why in the hell are they locked?! After selecting a 
 character, you'll hear him shout through your controller's microphone - a nice touch! The impressive 
 stage selection (which includes those from Melee) offer some pretty fascinating locations. The 
 Pictochat stages are drawn before your eyes, and when the massive Metal Gear breaks through a wall 
 on rainy Shadow Moses Island, it's positively jaw-dropping. I also love the Ice Climber stage with 
 the huge iceberg careening down a slope until it finally crashes into the sea. The four-player 
 fighting action is chaotic as ever, made even more confusing by the insane stage designs, over-the-top 
 attacks, and "summoned" creatures that sometimes join the fray. For the first time you can jump 
 down through platforms, which is nice, but sometimes the jumping controls are funky. Double jumps 
 and ledge grabs can come in pretty handy most of the time, but sometimes don't kick in when you 
 really need them. New weapons include a huge light saber and "superspice curry" that lets you breathe 
 fire. The new "smash ball" allows each character to perform a devastating "final smash" attack. 
 Kirby's will suck everyone into a pot to be cooked, Samus unloads a massive laser beam, Peach puts 
 everyone to sleep, and Fox can call upon tanks and spaceships. Surprises abound in this game. In 
 the Metroid stage, the entire playing field will abruptly turn upside down. A puppy from Nintendogs 
 might block part of the screen temporarily, or the "face boss" from the original Star Fox might 
 appear in the background, spitting out polygons. While the default Wimote/nunchuck control configuration 
 is okay, but many will gravitate towards the GameCube controller, especially since there are no 
 motion controls. In terms of graphics, the quality isn't any better than Super Smash Bros. Melee. 
 The characters look slightly harsher around the edges, but the lush, layered backdrops are more 
 dynamic and boast more detail. Although the four-player action hasn't changed much, the side-scrolling 
 "Subspace Emissary" adventure mode provides a very long, engaging quest for the solo player. I 
 like how it gradually introduces each character, but sometimes it feels like a carrot on a stick. 
 As I played through it, it was hard to tell if I was playing for the fun of it, or just to unlock 
 new stuff. No matter what mode you play, the game constantly updates you about new items you've 
 unlocked, which is satisfying. Super Smash Bros. Brawl has minimal load times, an intuitive user 
 interface, on-line modes, and unlimited replay value. It won't convert the haters, but Nintendo 
 die-hards can bump up the grade by a letter, because for them at least, it doesn't get much better 
 than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Philipxb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Yes, finally, brawl...
  
  Let's make it short shall we?
  - Fair graphics. (i don't want any trouble:) )
  - 35 Playable characters.
  - 40+ stages (incl. 
 stage builder)
  - 2 single player modes: All-Star and Classic.
  - Very, very long single/co-op adventure mode.
  - Wi-Fights available.
  - 128 challenges you 
 can do if you want to.
  - 544 trophies to collect.
  - 258 CDs to collect.
  - 700 stickers to collect.
  - 41 Events to do + 21 co-op events to do.
  - 12 demos of some 
 of the masterpieces like: Zelda 64, SMW and SMB1,2.
  - Extra modes like: Target Smash, Home run contest, Multi-Man Brawl and Boss Battles.
  - Good 
 replay value
  - And at last, Brawl against your friends/this is the best multiplayer game!
  
  So as you can see, this is a great long game, and in my opinion, this is the best Wii game 
 to date, and you will enjoy it. And your friends might do so too. No wait, they will. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaNdoM_GaMe
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  WOW. This game definitely does not disappoint at all. the wait for the game was painfully long, but 
 it was worth it. It's got so much content that it will almost never get old.
  
  the game has 35 characters in all. each one is somehow unique in their own way. Even clone characters 
 the game's creators managed to somehow make each one a bit different. Most characters have at least 
 two ways to unlock them. A number of Brawl's (a brawl is one match) or getting them to join your 
 party in the subspace emissary. (the SSE is the adventure mode, which is a lot different than Melee's 
 adventure mode and i'll get to that next) Every one of the characters is enjoyable to use, and most 
 of the newcomers are great.
  
  the SSE is a medium length adventure mode to brawl. basically, it's the adventure mode from Melee 
 with a story and it's longer. Co-op also works great for this mode and it's also seen in stadium 
 modes that were in Melee. (multi-man brawl, home run contest & break the targets) there is also 
 a stage builder this time. That's right, now you can build your own! It work's great, and has endless 
 possibility's. The online feature work's good but with some lag (not much) when playing worldwide. Friend 
 codes work pretty good too, where you can be in private matches with friends.
  
  Overall, Brawl is a game with barely any flaws, and I suggest that you go buy a copy now if your 
 a fan of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smogtoe
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  There are some games that just deserve a review, and have somehow compelled an individual to come 
 back for more. The game I speak of is none other than, Super Smash Bros. Brawl; and it needs no 
 other introduction. This is one of those games that can sneak in on you, and smack you upside the 
 head, and of course, draw you in like a kid in a candy store. It all started a couple of weekends 
 ago, my son was playing the game, and talking smack to me. I have told him a few times over that 
 I would give the game a chance and play a few rounds with him; however, quite a bit of time had 
 gone by since I had told him this. So he's sitting there battling some people online, and he asked 
 me if I was going to jump in on a match. Just when I was about to come up with some excuse as to 
 why I couldn't play........... he taunts me! Using my logic on me..... the logic I use on him when 
 I'm trying to get him to eat a square meal. He says to me....."Dad, how will you ever know if you 
 like this game, until you play it?" I was completely floored! This ten year old boy is using psychology 
 on me! Seriously, I've never been so completely stunned! So from that moment on, I've been playing 
 Super Smash Bros Brawl. And I have to say, I do enjoy the game for the most part. It is truly one 
 of those games that has to grow on you, at least it was for me. I probably had to play with my 
 son a few rounds, over a few days before I finally knew that I was hooked. At first, he made me 
 angry because he has this tenacious need to punish me in a game for some reason. He would get himself 
 one of the items like the "fan", and start repeatedly smacking me! Over and over, and over again..... so 
 I finally got ticked off and asked him to kindly try something else, he just laughed! So I decided 
 I would get him back! Which is the essence of Smash Bros. ........... get your opponent before they 
 get you! This new found way of bashing someone, or punishing someone has become somewhat "therapeutic" 
 in a strange kinda way. But for all intensive purposes, I do know it is just a game, and he is 
 my son. Now that the tables have turned, he is not trying to smack me so....... he now attempts 
 ways to get in and get me, and get out! I have, developed a better sense with the game you could 
 say. LOL....... Overall, I do recommend this game, it has that quality fun that a group of people 
 would enjoy, and yet it still has enough of a campaign for single players to enjoy. Great game, 
 really good fun with a few friends! I do have to say, some of the characters puzzle me, and I still 
 can't figure out how they got in the game......... cuz they just suck to play with. Other than some 
 minor complaints with the online lagging just a bit from time to time, the game play is satisfying 
 for kids, and adults alike. I know because my son is 10, and I'm 32! Super Smash is a fun beat 
 em up style game, that has the potential to keep the fun rolling for quite some time...... Very 
 high replay value. If you are a fan of Nintendo characters, and just plain sock em, bop em, beat 
 em up games.......... this is the game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSmokeNinja
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best game that I played for Wii. Its also my second game too. I liked the gameplay 
 of this game and the graphics. I have to admit, this game is very detailed. The levels are also 
 awsome. What made the levels so awsome was how they change while you are playing. Subspace Emissionary 
 ( The story mode) was fun. It was long too. The only bad thing about that was that the characters 
 did not talk. Instead they made different expressions on their face to communicate. When I first 
 bought this game I was expecting it to be just like Super Smash Bros Melee. But I was suprised 
 at how fun I was. There was also different modes to choose from, many trophies to collect, and 
 there was many levels brawl on. I liked this game, and for those of you who dissagree with me you've 
 gotta be crazy because this game is the best game for wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: White-Rose
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 3:04 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw the announcement for a new Smash Brothers, I was excited at first, but as more 
 information was released about it, I began to get a little nervous. However, in the same way Chrono 
 Cross manages to pull off 40+ characters, SSBB is able to tie all of its strange new features in 
 just the right way to be fun.
  
  Graphics:
  Obviously, the graphics are spectacular, especially for a Wii game. True, in a game this intense, 
 there are several clipping issues and similar bugs, but nothing that interrupts gameplay or detracts 
 from the visual experience. The pre-built levels are very well designed from an artistic standpoint; 
 Final Destination in particular caught my eye with the breathtaking backgrounds.
  My only real complaint is the custom level creation parts. Very few pieces are given, making all 
 custom levels look rather bland. Apart from this, the graphics are great!
  
  Sound:
  Wow. 300+ tracks. That's certainly going to be a hit or miss. Fortunately for me and all other 
 Smash Brothers players out there, it was a hit. The soundtrack is very well designed, featuring 
 all of the best songs from the various characters games. The preview of the Metal Gear Solid 4 
 soundtrack was an interesting inclusion, but it fits the part perfectly in the Shadow Moses Island 
 level. Overall, the sound is very well done.
  
  Gameplay:
  Ah, this is where it gets really important. Does Super Smash Brothers Brawl stand up to its franchise 
 title? I'm happy to say that it is indeed a worthy follow-up to Melee, featuring crazy and spontaneous 
 character-smashing madness. The new Havoc engine successfully manages to handle the Smash Brothers 
 Situation, and adds many new features, such as picking up items on the run. My major complaint 
 here is the online play. While Wii games have never been known for online play, SSBB does a particularly 
 bad job of things. You can either play directly against a friend using their Wii friend code, or 
 join a random battle with random people. With this aside, and while there are a few minor bugs, 
 overall the gameplay is very well done.
  
  Story:
  This is perhaps the first Smash Brothers game able to have this category in the review; the new 
 Deep Space Embassy mode is a more in-depth version of Melee's adventure mode, with a story to boot. 
 While it is true that the story is a bit shallow and confusing at times, people don't play Super 
 Smash Brothers to experience an in-depth, life-changing story. The story is good enough to fit 
 in well enough with the game, and that's what's important.
  
  While it has a few small shortcomings, Super Smash Brothers Brawl is indeed an excellent game, 
 and one worth buying, especially if you enjoy multiplayer experiences. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8more67
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  This game really kicks butt. It has so many damn characters and levels. Not to mention the weapons. Now, if 
 you have an anger issue and just like beating the crap out of anything, then this game is definitely 
 for you. Especially if you hate a lot of Nintendo characters. The graphics are so damn insane!! It 
 makes you feel like your part of the game. The cutscenes in story mode are pretty good and so are 
 the levels. If you don't happen to like the levels (chances are you will like them though) then you'll 
 be happy to know that there are custom levels that you design completely. The big problem with them 
 is that you can't use them online. But it is a good idea. There are a lot of characters to play with 
 and unlock. And if you don't like Sega, then you'll love beating the crap out of Sonic the Hedgehog. A 
 great character is Snake from the Metal Gear series, but you have to (of course) unlock him. He's 
 a great character, so it's worth the wait. This game isn't too easy, yet not too hard, which is cool 
 I guess. You'll totally love this game and get more for your money's worth. You should definitely 
 get this game, it's awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skaifox
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  WHAT'S IT LIKE?:
  Just like melee, but smoother, more characters, more stages, more modes... just, more EVERYTHING.
 
  
  THE GOOD:
  The graphics; what else to say? They're just beauitful.
  The gameplay; think melee physics, but make them slightly lighter, dip the game in warm chocolate 
 fondue and sprinkle mini marshmallows all over it.
  ...
  Exactly.
  The new stuff; the game's seriously packed full of brand new stuff. Those that say this is too 
 similar to Melee are LYING. You'll be occupied for a long time trying out every character, stage 
 and mode. SubSpace Emissary won't take you too long, however.
  
  THE BAD:
  Online mode; A massive letdown, but Nintendo appears to be far better at offline gameplay than 
 online anyways, as observed through Mario Kart and Mario Strikers: Charged. It's laggy, slow, far 
 from addictive, and a large amount of it is based on who's got the lowest ping. This is, of course, 
 a very difficult problem for Nintendo to solve, if it IS solvable at all. But I can't help but 
 feel as though the online mode could have been better.
  Tabuu; the bloody last boss. He's tough to beat on the higher difficulties. However, I should put 
 him under 'THE GOOD' because he's incredibly fun to fight.
  
  OVERALL:
  A good game that would be a crime to overlook. Beautifully detailed, and it just SCREAMS at you 
 from the shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krierster
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  First of all I got this game at the midnight release and boy was i happy. I stayed up the whole 
 night playing it. it is a very fun game with a great one player adventure mode and a vs. mode that 
 will be fun forever. It has so many different features like create a stage and collect stickers 
 and trophies. i love this game and will always love it! There are 35 different and unique characters 
 that have there own moves and attacks. There are even more stages. this game rocks! i love it, 
 i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love 
 it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love 
 it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love 
 it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love 
 it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love 
 it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love 
 it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love 
 it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love 
 it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love 
 it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love 
 it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love 
 it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love 
 it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love it, i love 
 it, i love it, i love it, i love it!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paintball1420
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 30, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  I don't know if this is the same for everyone, but I'm a hardcore gamer, and this game is ridiculous 
 at some times. The other ones i liked a lot better, this one is just chaotic, like 200 things on 
 the screen at the same time, half the time I'm looking for where i am on the screen. And what were 
 they thinking with the SSE? I think they were trying to do the adventure mode from melee, but they 
 failed. Online is also not top notch considering everything is pre-rendered, 5 minutes to find 
 a game, c'mon. There are much better games (on other consoles) for online play. Also, the characters, 
 half of them are just clones of other characters in the same game, captain falcon and ganandorf 
 exp. It seems like they spent too much time on the extras and less time on the actual fighting 
 and gameplay. I'm in between, turn items off and this is an OK game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkknight313
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  What I like about this game is that cool characters such as Meta Knight, Pit, and Sonic the Hedgehog 
 are in it and there is a new adventure mode called The Subspace Emissary and now you can use a 
 coin launcher to get trophies and espacially that you can also get sountracks in this game I also 
 like the stickers. This game is probably the best video game this year on the Wii unless not than 
 this year it is the best game. The only thing I don't like about this game is that Roy doesn't 
 return, and all the target smash's are the same for every character. But what I also like is that 
 there a new item called the Smash Ball which after destroying it makes your character stronger 
 and the there is this Trophy stand that you throw out to summon a non playable character in this 
 game. This game overall recieves a 10.0 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bjdj96
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that the super smash brothers games are one of the very best fighting 
 games and one of the very best mario games. The fighting is clean and you could do those crazy 
 moves you always wanted to do. And there are more characters so it makes it even better and i love 
 the new characters and their special moves they do. And I love the new moves that all the characters 
 do. The graphics are way better and the stages are even better than the others and i like that 
 you could still play with some of the stages that are in the other game. I also like that they 
 still kept some of the other characters from the other game because i liked falco he was my favorite 
 character from the other game so i was happy that he was in this game to cause i would have been 
 mad if he wasn't. Overall this game is a good buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grorusso
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  this game is awesome!
  
  ok characters (35 total)
  
  Mario
  
  Pikachu
  
  R. O. B
  
  Link
  
  Zelda
  
  Luigi
  
  Bownser
  
  Yoshi
  
  Toon Link
  
 
  Ganondorlf
  
  Sheik
  
  Lucario
  
  Samus
  
  Zero Suit Samus
  
  Pokemon 
  
  Ike
  
  Marth
  
  Peach
  
  Olimar
 
  
  Captain Falcon
  
  Falco
  
  Fox
  
  Wolf
  
  Kirby
  
  Meta-Knigth
  
  King DDD
  
  Wario
  
  Snake 
  
  Sonic
  
  Mr. Game & Watch
  
  Lucas
  
  Ness
 
  
  Jiglypuff
  
  Diddy Kong
  
  Donkey Kong
  
  Thats it!
  
  Gameplay: nothing has changed much
  
  Sound: Awesome!
  
  Controls: Responsive, Easy to master
 
  
  Pros:35 character's, Create a Stage, Stages are good, Music is Awesome, Specials and characters look 
 Amazing!
  
  Cons: i've seen older games with more characters, Stage bulder dosent have much: Back Grounds and 
 items, unlocking characters was way too easy.
  
  
 
  
  Conclusion:
  
  it's a fun game but unlocking characters was way too easy, get's boring after a while if you dont 
 play with persons! but i reccomend this game too fans of the series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheesecakeMania
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 5:50 pm PT
Review:  When I first got Super Smash Bros. Brawl, I was really happy that it was finally in my hands. I 
 went home, popped it into my Wii, and started playing. In the middle of my very first battle, I 
 had already found a few flaws; I was upset. I thought I just had to give it some time to appreciate, 
 but the more time I gave it, the more flaws I found and the worse it got. Here are a list of the 
 flaws in the game: 
  1: It's no longer as fast-paced as Melee 
  2: Directional air-dodging is no longer in play
  3: Controls are unresponsive and slow
  4: AI 
 opponents always target you
  5: AI opponents will chase any and every item
  6: Stages lack originality
  7: Characters occasionally trip
  8: Some characters have the same 
 moveset as others
  
  So there it is, a dissapointment for years to come. The way I see it, this game in particular was 
 made solely for fan service. Sonic geeks wanted Sonic, so they got Sonic. As for gameplay, it's 
 back to the basics of the N64 title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramboturd72
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Brothers Brawl is nothing short of a masterpiece. It combines a killer story mode, 
 some of the greatest multiplayer for a Wii game, and numerous other modes for one of the best games 
 availible for Wii.
  
  Most people who have played a Smash Brothers game know that most of the fun lies in multiplayer. 
 However, I feel that this game changed that. This game added a stellar story mode (aka subspace 
 emissary) to the already great series. Story mode consists of going to different stages and recruiting 
 new party members to defeat bowser, ganondorf, and wario. Vets of this series probably won't spend 
 more than a few hours on this mode, but others will probably spend more time completing this mode. 
 When you complete story, there are countless other things for you do complete such as boss battles 
 mode, classic mode, and unlocking trophies and other goodies from the prize wall.
  
  Now for the big cheese: the multiplayer. For those who don't know, in multiplayer, you have 2-4 
 players battling at the same time in an open environment flooding with different platforms, walls, 
 etc. The point of the game is send your opponents flying off the screen. To do this, you must rack 
 up their damage percentage as high as you can and send them off with a big blow. There are different 
 modes you can use to play this game such as free for all or team battles. You can also customize 
 rules like the amount of time the match will last or how many lives you how for the battle. This 
 game truly lets you decide how you want to play.
  
  Now for the sad part of my review: the wi-fi. When I heard that this game was going to have wi-fi, 
 you should have seen the look on my face. I was flooded with joy. Then I played on wi-fi and I 
 was very disappointed. This could be because of my connection to wi-fi or the game itself (I'm 
 not 100% sure that it's the game.) Anyway, the wi-fi was filled with bucketfulls (yes bucketfulls) 
 of lag. I probably could have taken a nap during the time it took for my character to move. Another 
 problem I had was that I would get error codes about 1/4 of the times I tried to log in to wi-fi. 
 Again, I don't have proof that this was caused by the game as it could be my wii or it's connection.
 
  
  Even though I've had my wi-fi woes, this game is still as near perfect as Smash Brothers will probably 
 get. Every Wii owner out there needs to play this game at least once as it is one of the best games 
 out there right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicandtoad
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  This game shall be the best game ever made. All new characters: Snake, Sonic (Thank You Nintendo 
 and Sega) , Ike (sucks) , Toon Link, the all-new Ganandorf, Zero Suit Samus, and R. O. B. and much 
 more. Some characters I thought they shouldn't of added like Ike, R. O. B, and the new Ganandorf 
 (they should have used the melee version of him not from the stupid game Twilight Princess) . Some 
 characters just had to go away like Roy and pichu. They should have kept Mewtwo because Lucario 
 sucks and is too weak. Some characters shouldn't have come back like jiggles, peach, ice climbers, 
 and zelda/sheik. Most Final Smashes are awsome like Giga Bowser, Beast Ganon, Mario Finalie, Luigi's 
 Negative Zone, and Super Dragon. Some Suck like Jiggles when she grows large, that does no damage 
 at all it just pushes ur opponets. Peach's, wow putting people too sleep is SOOOOOOOO old and peaches 
 to heal alright that is good. The Assist trophys are good except for: Nintendog and Mr. Rosetti. 
 The Best are Waluigi and Gray Fox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamthulhu
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 29, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Alright - I think it's cool that you can be a lot of your favorite characters in this game, and 
 that each of them has his/her special little abilities in the game. But for the most part, it's 
 just a bunch of boring button-mashing. Um, hooray? Fun for all of 15 minutes maybe...
  
  Most of the friends I played this with are mega-gamers - and I won just about as many matches as 
 they did. The funny thing is, half the time, I didn't even know where I was on the screen - there 
 was just way too much going on. I won strictly by hitting buttons and hoping my character didn't 
 fly off the screen - and even if I did, I sometimes wouldn't notice until they told me.
  
  Perhaps the game might be a little more interesting if I bought it and played a few games on my 
 own, or designed my own levels, but I really don't see myself spending the money when there are 
 other games out there I know I'll love.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: that70brawl
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Brothers Brawl is a great game, its Melee but then better, who doesn't like to Fight 
 with you're favourite Character against you're friends???? And then those stages all of them are 
 so awesome! They bring back older and give newer, most of them have a background that moves, like 
 Final Destination, sometimes I caught myself only watching the background! Its just THAT cool, 
 and the storyline from Sub Space Emissary is much better then the Adventure mode in Melee, for 
 starters you don't have to play it with all Characters, they'll all appear in the Sub Space Emissary 
 Mode, and those Cut scenes.. Fabulous! and the teams are funny, yet cool I thought it would be 
 Mario and Luigi but its all mixed up! And the new boss higher then Master / Crazy Hand its Tabuu! 
 I love him and his attacks look cool, his Stage and his Music!! Thats about it, the only thing 
 that could have been better where some more third party Characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dymond7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  You should know that I love SSBB series, the first console game I ever played was Super Smash Bros 
 on the N64, and I do think that this game is great, but after looking at a few of the reviews, 
 I thought I'd make a review, and also note that this is my first review.
  
  Okay, there are hundreds of reviews of this game that just point out the pros of the game, when 
 the truth is, it's not a perfect game, It's really close to being perfect but it has it's flaws.
 
  
  One of the two major flaws of this game is the character roster, Sakurai said that they'll get 
 rid of the clones, when infact they added a clone, Wolf, I'm not saying anything bad about the 
 character, I'm just pointing out that's he's a clone, and the other thing is, I expected about 
 50 characters, considering that this might be the last Super Smash bros game.
  
  I'm not stating facts, I just feel like this is the last game, we might get a port of SSB or SSBM 
 on the DS but I don't think they'll be making more sequels to the series, but I might be wrong.
 
  
  What I just said above is not really a flaw to the game, I'll tell you the real flaw, The online 
 mode, it lags a lot!!, after seeing what the online mode does, I just stopped using it unless the 
 person I'm playing with lives next to my house or atleast in my city.
  
  Now I played a match with someone who lives... about well... extremly far from my country, and it 
 lags like crazy, it's just soo boring.
  
  but, when I play Mario Kart Wii with more than 5 people who lives in countries all around the world 
 it doesn't lag one bit, so why does it lag on Brawl?
  
  I stated the major flaws of the game, but those flaws don't stop this game from being one of the 
 best or the best multiplayer game on the Wii, even though the online is bad, the game has a single 
 player mode wih a story which is great and... atleast they got some 3rd party characters, so all 
 on all this game is SSBM with more characters, better single player modes and with a killer soundtrack.
 
  
  so I give this game a 8.5. for existing in 2008 and... being a multiplayer game with a bad online 
 mode, just don't start flaming me, I love this game and play it to this day, it's just that I was 
 hyping it a lot before it came out and when it did I thought that it was great with no flaws, but 
 I realize the flaws after 2 month or so of playing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domenico54
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  Well, i got into this series by renting SSBM (Super Smash Bros. Melee) and i went home with it 
 cause it had pikachu on it (i was a bit younger) and when i got home i couldnt believe that not 
 one of my friends had it. It was hands down the best game i ever played till this game and LoZ 
 (Legend of Zelda) OoT and MQ (Ocerina of Time) (Master Quest) . 
  
  
  
  OK back to this game, its visionally AMAZING graphics are superior on the wii. Its the best graphics 
 on the wii hands down. Its funny how the graphics changed between that time in the E3 trailer of 
 it i love how link changed he looked like a different character. The stages look good, some of 
 the backgrounds are look great and some look like wariowares  .  
  
  
  The controls are nice, no offensive to anyone out there but my dad gave up brawl after he coudnt 
 learn the controls. He didnt get the whole is you hold the up button and hit A you do and up attack 
 is you go sideways you'll do a sideways attack is you hit B up you can recover... You get the picture 
 he threw the wiimote down saying this is the stupidest game ever... I was ROFLING (rolling on floor 
 laughing) 
  
  
  Gameplay is the best part of this game. Its none stop action beat your buddies or the NPC with 
 items, fists, fire, falcon punches, aura, and so on. There are alot of attacks in this game so therefore 
 alot of varity. with 35 characters going from favorites Mr Game and Watch, Link, Kirby, Fox, Mario 
 and other classic characters. they added ten new characters (i think) and took some out like mewtwo 
 (whos basically lacario) but newcomers are pit, snake, meta knight, toon link, and a pleasent surprise, 
 sonic the hedgehog. they all have diffrent moves and final smashes the are unique in the own ways. 
 there are 41 stages plus custom stages you can make to play on which is great because you can make 
 better awesome huge spectacular stages but the backgrounds on them are horrible, but theres alot 
 of parts to get and use to make an awesome stage that meets your needs. The madestages meet the 
 challenge too many are famous places in videogames such as delfino square, eldin bridge, warioware 
 inc, green hill, and flat zone. all have something going on that has too do with the game like 
 wario ware does a mingame with you every so oftan, delfino sqaure will give you a tour of the dock, 
 and things like that. classic is the same kill each enemy and move on till big bad master hand 
 or a possible visit from crazy hand but the story mode has changed DERASTICLY. Its a whole series 
 of events where you'll meet almost every character in the game, trying to stop the world from the 
 mysterious villian who turns out to be a guy named taboo (no idea) trying to take over the world. 
 meanwhile everyones doing something different and find certain items and meet up at the end. all 
 the bosses were difficult taboo was makeing me throw the wiimote at the wall but i beat him on 
 very hard. 
  
  trophies stayed for the brawl, now offering challenges certain things you have to do to get cool 
 trophies you can show off to friends. there can be very challengeing trophies like complete all 
 - star on intense difficalty to complete lvl one target test with all characters. alot of verity 
 and you'll need all the characters to get half of these done. Theres extra games like target smash, 
 boss battles after the adventure, and sandbag smash which all can get you trophies somehow and 
 someway. Every mode except for adventure can get you trophies.
  
  
  This has the potental to be the nintendo game of the year but, even if isnt, buy it anyway this 
 is a great game and it is one of the best games of the year and for a long time to come. When you 
 pick this up get ready to smash some smash balls, chuck some pokeballs, and whip up some smash 
 attacks because this is gonna be a BRAWL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spicyramen08
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2008 10:33 pm PT
Review:  The stages and character selection combined are revamped in appearance and in function. For example, 
 they have introduced a couple of interactive stages such as Warioware and PictoChat. Yeah, that's 
 right. Besides watching your backside from opponents everywhere, you have to pay attention to the 
 background of the stage to avoid failures. 
  
  There are many more stages, about 40 + stages. You still get to unlock characters, and this time 
 you get Sonic as one of the players! There are actually 14 unlockable characters. In addition, 
 there are other unlockables in the game. They are music, events, modes, hidden assist trophies, 
 stages and much much more. 
  
  The game in my opinion should be rated E for Everyone because there is no graphic blood or gore. 
 The game is simple to use and can be very addictive. The replay in Smash Bros. Brawl is to the 
 max. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samurai_Raijin
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 27, 2008 9:04 pm PT
Review:  I've been tracking this game for a long time and as a european citizen, I had to wait a lot longer 
 for this game than american citizens. Sure, I was excited about what everyone was telling about 
 Brawl. I saw videos on Youtube, I was amazed, I wanted to play with Kirby again and kick ass like 
 in old SSB games but... something's missing...
  
  I played the game for like, 3 hours and I started to get bored, always the same thing. You battle, 
 you battle and you battle. Sure, there is a platform style game mode with various levels but still... 
 I was getting BORED.
  
  I tried the online mode, and there is something REALLY bad about it. You enter in the battle, and 
 you have to wait 30 or 40 seconds for opponents and NOTHING MORE... It must be normal to get an 
 opponent in some regions of the world, but I ain't got a match, not even ONCE.
  
  So, this game shines with more than one person, that's for sure, but if you don't have anyone else 
 to play it with you, expect boredom.
  
  A lot of boredom.
  
  Still not all things are bad! Let's analyze it further:
  
  - Gameplay: SSB classical gameplay 
 consists of a platform style stage with 4 characters of various famous games (mostly nintendo games) 
 to battle each other. The characters must knock out the opponents by pushing them to the edge of 
 the screen with the help of their skills, items or any other stuff depending on the rules of the 
 match. In Brawl, there was a new (sometimes overpowered) skill called Final Smash which deals tons 
 of damage to one, or more players, to activate this Final Smash you must break a Smash Ball that 
 is launched into the air and keeps floating. Sounds fun. A really original gameplay for a fighting 
 game. Shines in multiplayer action, because of the huge piles of fun it can give to a person (imagine 
 Pikachu kicking Ganondorf's ass heh?) . Not very good cameras though, newbies can seem a bit lost 
 at first, looking for their character. But the BIGGEST flaw, is the online mode. At least THEY 
 SHOULD take off the time limit, if they can't make the gaming network become worldwide.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  
  - Sound: Sound in this game breaks to two different things: Sound Effects 
 and Soundtrack. While I think the soundtrack is amazing and filled with superb orchestral remixes 
 of a lot of original nintendo games soundtrack, I can't pretty much say anything good about the 
 sound effects. It's annoying because in this game you don't have a lot of movements and skills 
 and they all have ONLY one sound, so imagine if a player decides to spam Link's whirlwind, you 
 will have to ear everytime the same YAAAAAAAAAH! he screams. Pretty annoying imo.
  
  ... AND NO JAPANESE DUB! JERKS! (IKE IN ENGLISH SOUNDS RIDICULOUS!)
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  - 
 Graphics: Amazing! What can I say about the graphics, they're like PERFECT to a type of game SSBB 
 is. Detail on those characters have never been so complete and they are still loyal to the original 
 aspect they had when they were created. The stages are also amazingly done, and look at the cutscenes... 
 So perfect... Graphism, even though it's not very important in a game (in my opinion) it's the 
 strongest point of Super Smash Bros. Brawl. It shows that the Wii can create amazing, beautiful 
 games without the help of those Super CPU's that PS3 and Xbox 360 have.
  
  Take that.
  
  Graphism: 10/10
  
  
  - Overall: SSBB is by no means a bad game, but it's not the perfect 
 game for the Wii. It's not a legendary game and it's very far from it. I DO recommend this game 
 for everyone that has a Wii and likes fighting games, but don't expect to be addicted to it.
  In my opinion: Dragon Ball Z Budokai Tenkaichi 3 is a good alternative, but the problem is... If 
 you're not a DBZ fan, it won't be as much as good.
  
  Overall: 8.4
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scanzo
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of figting games, and the first Super Smash Brothers was an instant classic 
 and will always be a fun game. Mellee was okay and all, but it wasnt as good as the first game.... but 
 I can say SuperSmashBrawl is my favorite out of the three in the series. I really enjoy the feel 
 of the controls and all of my old favorite characters are back to whoop some ass, along with some 
 champion newbies to join the brotherhood of the Smash, lol. Link, StarFox, Ness and Mario were 
 my favorite from the first Super Smash, then Bowser Marth/Roy, MewTwo, and Mr Game and Watch were 
 added to the list of my Favorites.... NOW, I have to get all of the characters so I can give em 
 all a try so I can find some new character to add to my favorites list. From what I've heard there 
 is TONS of new character to play as once Ive found them all, I am a little dissapointed because 
 Joe & Mac didnt make it into Brawl, theres the Ice Climber, but no Joe & Mac. Joe & Mac would have 
 been a way better choice than those two dumb eskimos.... but its whatever.
  
  I played a bunch of matches with my brother and friends and they all enjoyed Brawl to, I whooped 
 their asses and sometimes they whooped mine. I am great with Link Starfox and Bowser but they are 
 the only three I have played with so far, but my brother is unstopable with Kirby... I will beat 
 him one of these days.
  
  Super Smash Brawl is deffenitly a 10/10 in my eyes.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guntrix50
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- It is true that the gameplay has been slowed down a bit, and in addition to that Ariel 
 attacks are much more easier to perform. With new characters, the gameplay will affect your SSB 
 experience. The gameplay has changed, but the changes only made it better.
  
  Graphics- From the character models to the environments, the graphics look alright. You won't exactly 
 be getting Crysis graphics, but the graphics are pleasant and decent.
  
  Subspace- A fun single player/co-op mode. Overall, I had a fun time playing it. The problem is 
 that too many characters are unlocked after finishing subspace, making the game less challenging.
 
  
  Brawl- Of course, this is the main course of the game. Playing against your friends in a brawl 
 is exciting and perfect for parties.
  
  Online- With friends, it's a fun experience. With anyone, the game sometimes lags and even freezes, 
 so it's a bit dissappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vuk39
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 12:16 am PT
Review:  Ok well SSBB is the 3rd installment in the Smash Bros. series, and its easily the best in the series 
 by far, the main gameplay modes in the game are the multiplayer modes where you can fight with 
 your friends or a CPU controlled oppenent, and then theres the single player mode which has your 
 normal modes like classic, all star, and event matches, and all that your used to, but it has a 
 new 1-2 player adventure mode called the Supspace Emissary, its fun at first but when you get a 
 few hours in you will force yourself to get through it, and then there's the highly anticapated 
 online mode and you will enjoy this mode better then any other mode in the game the matches are 
 smooth and you won't have much lag when you play.
  
  
  Character - 10
  
  There's so many characters to choose from that you will find several characters your good with
 
  
  Graphics - 9.8
  
  The grahpics in this game are truly something to behold it may not take the looks as far as lets 
 say something like Super Mario Galaxy, but its still pretty to look at.
  
  
  Sound - 10
  
  The soundtrack in this game is simply amazing, you will never get tired of hearing 
 the songs in this game.
  
  Replay Value - 10
  
  This gamehas to have the greastest replay value of any Wii game to date, you will never get tired 
 of this game no matter how much you play it.
  
  so in conclusion pick up this masterpiece of a game, U won't be disappointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazza28
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 26, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  I'm dutch, so I had to have a lot of patience before I could put my hands on SSBB, but finally, 
 the 27th of June, I could start. I've been a huge fan of SB since melee, because of the ridiculous 
 fights and all the winks to everything that stands for Nintendo. I knew Brawl would even make this 
 better then melee, and I believe I am right about this: The fast-paced fighting fun, graphics, 
 sound, characters; everything is just a bit better. The final smash and the assist trophy are welcome 
 additions.
  
  The SSE is a welcome 1p mode, but in my opinion way too long. And I don't like the fact that you 
 unlock the secret characters this way, it's too easy. In Melee, you just played some battles and 
 in a surprise, there was, for example, young link! You didn't know how you did it, but that was 
 just what I liked, to be surprised!
  
  The thing I also miss in Brawl is the bonus mode (you know, in melee you fought for bonuses like 
 taunting while the battle is over, or finishing the game while being a shooting star) . I really 
 miss that!
  
  The online mode is a bit weak. It could upgrade with rankings, on-line tournaments, statistics 
 an so on.
  
  But for me, it is impossible to give this game anything below a 9. There is so much to discover, 
 and with some friends it has an unlimited replay value. You can play this game until the next smash 
 bros!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crysis-matter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  super smash bros brawl is another fighting game with nintendo charcters brawling it out. But this 
 not another fighting game it has ALOT of unlockables. the unlockables are really cool but rarely 
 are some lame. it has some new charcters and stages. the controllers are okay. there are 4 ways 
 to play it, you can play it with the wii remote sideways, the wii remote with the nunchuck, the 
 classic controller, and a gamecube controller if your so used to the meele controlles. the game 
 has multiplayer with up to four players and it has has nintendo wi-fi which works ok but it may 
 go really slow and i could lock up and few times plus it takes a while to find one person. this 
 game has an adventure mode whic is also cool. the gameplay in this game is fun and fast. the graphics 
 are like the second best on the system (mario galaxys graphics are better) this game has ALOT of 
 music you can unlock and listen to it. this game is just FUN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simolion453
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 25, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Super smash brothers brawl is my favourite game ever ever ever the game was sent down from the 
 angels. Although its great it has got one fault having jigglypuff in it. Now onto the good points, 
 Addictive, great, fantastic multiplayer, but if you are looking for a proper fighting game this 
 is not for you. It is the best game in the series and the most enjoyable game ever for nintendo 
 fans. sUBSPACE EMMISARY TAKES ABOUT 10 HOURS TO COMPLETE, that is long dont you think, now theres 
 collecting trophies about 550 to collect keeps you busy along with about 700 stickers! So this 
 is a mussst have for all nintendo fans buy buy buy buy buy !
  
  Here are a list of fighters in the game  game and watch, 
 link, zelda, ganondorf, toon link, pikachu, lucario, charizard, squirtale, bulbasaur, Jigglypuff, 
 marth, ike, diddy kong, Donkey kong, pit, olimar, samus, zero suit samus, wario, kirby, meta knight, 
 king dedede, lucas, ness, sheik, R. O. B, WOLF, fox, falco, and caiptain falcon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mercenary-73
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  You know at first when i watched all the trailers, gameplay videos and even the final smash videos 
 i was so impressed that i couldn't wait for it, in fact this is the main reason i bought the wii 
 for. when i played it for the first i was like Woa!!. There's alot of new characters , the graphics 
 are really improved, the music is really cool on some stages, and alot of new additions including 
 new items, final smashes, new adventure mode and new stadium features. After that i had alot of 
 weeks of pure fun!
  
  The game died for me when i got all the characters and the stages, even if there are challenges 
 to keep you playing the game was becoming boring and now i only play it when my little cousins 
 come to my house. Since Nintendo WFC is really bad i couldn't enjoy the online experience -.-
 
  
  The good : Alot of new features and good graphics for Wii game, alot of fun when you play it with 
 ur friends or family ( not online) .
  
  The bad: Becomes boring after a while and you won't play it anymore ( for me) . This is personal.
 
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Graphics:10/10
  Sounds: 9/10
  Title:8/10
  Value:10/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshiman411
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  -The Good
  *Best Graphics for the Wii
  *Great Multiplayer
  *an expanded character and stage selection
  *custom built stages
  *awsome gameplay
  *good 
 storyline
  * 4 ways to play (that means all you melee veterans can use your GCN controllers! )
  *Fun to 
 play online
  *characters from other companys
  
  -The Bad *not many unique stage builder parts
  * custom built stage can't be played on Wifi
 
  
  The Smash Brothers are back again this time new characters have joined the Brawl, like Sonic, Snake, Wario, Lucario, King 
 DeDeDe, Wolf and lots more! This game was worth the wait and is best suited for ...................... 
 everyone! so go out and buy this game cause its a fun sometimes relaxing instant classic game..... if 
 you don't buy you better have a good reason because you 'll be  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TenaciousKory
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Not many games are this good. Super Smash Bros. Brawl for Nintendo Wii is one of those games that 
 people play because it offers an exceptionally enjoyable game. Most of the game is built around 
 the multi-player aspect, whether it be against bot or human. With some online features added in, 
 you can never run out of people to bash. Either way, you're gonna' get lost in how pleasurable 
 this game is. Skip renting this game, please proceed directly to purchasing it, as the replay value 
 of this game is incredibly high. The single player is quite good as well, with the newly added 
 Subspace Emissary mode, the immersive story is sure to suck you in. A small downside is the fact 
 that some Subspace Emissary levels are skipable. However, that doesn't detract a whole lot from 
 the overall quality of the game. This game is a must buy if you own a Nintendo Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itachi100
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 24, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  a lot like melee except... easier, online, more characters, and some more. one thing i should mention 
 is the stage builder. were you get a limited amount of parts to build your own stage. and you CANT 
 play them in online... darn. you can unlock more parts by building more stages =D gets old... 
 
  
  JUST LIKE THE GAME! once you unlock all the characters and stages playing this game without multiplayer 
 can be VERY boring. unlockign everything is just TOO easy in this one.
  
  mm maybe i dont like it becuase im terrible at it...
  
  at MANY MANY moments i felt like this: 
 "this is just STUPID!! con it get any cheaper? im outta here" well if u buy it and like it it wont 
 matter... everyone has their opinions. well GOOD LUCK PLAYING!
  
  
  
  
  im too lazy to give you my friend code =D well pm me and i might send it to you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ace-of-spades93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  to start off i'd just like to express my deep undying love for nintendo and all they've done. This 
 game was on my wishlist as soon as i first heard of it. I'm incredibly glad i bought it so far 
 i've spent 6 and a half hours on the story mode top notch if u want sumin different and at least 
 3 hours on classic and the events. Add this to to the 100 plus hours i've put into online it makes 
 for a very long lasting game. plenty of charecters and maps the maps are probibly the best part 
 of the game for me. they vary so much and all add new exciting twists too quite ordinary battles.
 
  
  The bad point for me is that the charecters designs are quite lazy e. g
  falco is an awful lot like fox and wolf isnt he
  lucas is an awful lot like ness isnt he
  and 
 u look me in the eye and tell me peach doesnt suck
  it would have been a lot beter with more third party charecters like master chief and maybe even 
 or maybe even shrek or sumit i dunno but i would have liked to seen a bigger effort made toward 
 that roster otherwise great game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: strongbad404d
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2008 2:20 am PT
Review:  What can I say, this game is excellent. The perfect difficulty, great multiplayer, and the single 
 player mode will last you about 4 hours, too. The amount of characters is amazing; you'll be seeing 
 all of your favourites, without feeling swamped by a gigantic roster.
  
  The single player aspect of this game is great, with the sub-space emissary you'll be facing armies 
 of enemies, with many platforming elements added, too.
  Classic is the same old, average smash bros formula that we all know and love.
  Event matches 
 are fun, they will last you a while but unlike the rest of this game, after you have beaten the 
 once you wont want to come back and beat them again.
  Stadium is good for a laugh, you can either break all of the targets in a time limit, smash a sandbag 
 as far as you can see, take on hundreds of foes in multi-man brawl, or defeat every boss in the 
 game in boss battles mode.
  
  The multiplayer is where this game really brings you back for more, you will be playing it for 
 days on end. You can put special options into brawls such as low gravity, metal characters or you 
 can even make all players tiny!
  
  However, with all good things said, there are a few downsides to this game. The CPU intelligence 
 is very low, even on the higher levels. Final smashes, while being fun, feel like the un-balance 
 the game somewhat, with characters such as fox having moves that almost always get a KO and others 
 having final smashes that are unlikely to KO, even when your opponent is at a very high damage 
 percentage. Also the online mode seems lacking in some areas, and as always, Wii friend codes are 
 an inconvenience.
  
  Overall the pros outweigh the cons by many, and are enough for this game to still get a 10/10. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1337_lost_souls
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 23, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  It's flashy, colorful, fast paced, has good multiplayer and is highly addictive. The broken online 
 and adventure mode that fails to make you want to continue are the only things that are making 
 me not give this a 10. It's amazing, it's fun no matter how many players you have, 35 characters 
 is a great roster, long and more fun classic mode than it's predecessors, final smashes give this 
 game a great fun twist, four ways to play which can also be customized is also a great feature.
 
  
  This is the best Wii game I've played so far, about 10 times better than Super Mario Galaxy and 
 about 50 times better than Super Paper Mario.
  
  I've played this game for approximately 50-60 hours and i still haven't gotten bored, the special 
 brawl 300% is super cool, just regular matches are fun, trophy collecting is cool, the music is 
 amazing.
  
  Trust me, if you are looking for singleplayer or multiplayer fun, this is the game to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brendan08black
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is an instant classic. I play it every day possible. It's not easy but it's not extremely 
 hard, ya know? Yea, your right it's just perfect. The variety of characters make it easy to find 
 at least 3 people your good with. The online play has literally no lagg. There is a very easy and 
 fun way to make wacky courses. The final smashes are the bomb. So, all- in- all this the most fantastical 
 most perfected amazing game a guy could ask for. I really recommened you play with a Gamecube controller, 
 just sayin. Thnk you. Have a good day! Now, i sing, lalalalala lalalalalalala lalalalalal alalal 
 alalalal alalalalal alalalal alalalal alalalal alalala lalala lllalaal allal aalala lalallal alalala 
 lalalal alalalala llalalalal lalala. Rate me good please im new and i need it. On again, have a 
 good day and rate me as a 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeldafans1
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Its been a pretty long time but super smash bros brawl is finally among us. Its back and better 
 then ever! This game is like a bigger and better version of melee. The game has everything you need 
 to have fun. The new game modes like the subspace emissary should keep you busy but brawling with 
 friends gives you the full package. online play is really if just want to jump into a brawl and 
 have some fun. The graphics are really good. The biggest change was the new smash ball that lets 
 you use your new amazing move that a really cool new item. You can use the new stickers to power 
 up your character. You will lose the sticker but it does work really good. Collecting stickers are 
 fun to collect too. In all this game is really perfect. If you want to have a great fighting game 
 then you cant really go wrong with super smash bros brawl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marco0798
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 6:07 am PT
Review:  Last week i dusted of my Wii system in order to play one of the reasons for buying it in the first 
 place, SSBB. The game is brilliant and if im honest i actually prefer the nunchuck/wiimote control 
 scheme to the gamecube one, the game is brilliant looks awsome, plays awsome new characters are 
 well balanced (snake is a badass) HOWEVER the online multiplayer is pathetic. You will not play 
 one match that does not lag. Its is by far the worst online console ever to have been concieved 
 hell the gamecube had a better online system. You would think that a game that is focuse on multiplayer 
 brawls would excel at multiplayer online, it doesnt! so my advice to you is IF, like me, you have 
 friends who play SSBB then get it if you will rely on WIFI dont bother because the experience will 
 deminish the overall quality of the game.
  Overall no, this game will not satisfy you as much as Melee or the original did. the game looks 
 good but its nothing spectacular the sound in the game is well done with some great tunes from 
 its various franchise's but i would just like to re-iterate on my last point DO NOT get this game 
 if you are planning relying on multiplayer, the singleplayer has near enough no replayability. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kiplor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 11:56 pm PT
Review:  Although the tagline of my review suggests that I hate this game, I do not at all, but I will start 
 with the negatives.
  Online play: TOTAL FAILURE. The fact that custom maps cannot be shared between friends I thought 
 was a bit lame, and the lack of a proper messaging system was also a kick in the jewels. On top 
 of that, there is the certain problem that in any circumstance during online play, you are forced 
 to deal with lag, sometimes as minor as a 1/2 second delay between what you press and when it happens, 
 or a 10 SECOND WAIT FOR A 3 SECOND COUNTDOWN!!!!!! The fact that Nintendo have not resolved this 
 issue before its release astounded me.
  Subspace Emissary (new single player) : Lamer then a pun convention:
  It's like they've taken 
 the super Mario bros format and added crappy enemies and collectables. Although i have finished 
 this mode, I felt no compulsion to, rather, i was searching for something as if it was going to 
 suddenly get better, but alas it was to no avail.
  Well now that I'm out of hate spew, the positives:
  Single Player Minus Subspace: Classic mode 
 is still 'classic', it's very enjoyable and with the addition of characters having an effect on 
 who you battle is a good part of the game. Events, Training and the record setting minigames lets 
 the player brush up or get better with their skills, providing a decent amount of game play. The 
 group section also offers a single player mode with pc's taking stead instead of friends and is 
 a good feature too.
  Offline Multiplayer:
  Three words
  Just Plain Fun
  Weather battling it out with friends for supremacy or just a friendly gaming sesh, the multiplayer 
 can engross up to 32 people with just 4 remotes!!!! and it makes for a great time.
  
  Lastly, The Challenges
  A sort of thing you wanna do to enhance your gaming with unlockables 
 ranging from levels from classic games, old and new soundtracks, to trophies to your cabinet, it's 
 fun for those who like to 100% games or just as something to do.
  
  Although i absolutely hate the online play and the terrible subspace single player, this game is 
 still great fun and the only fair score is 8.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatobi669
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 22, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Yes it is a low score. Super Smash Bros. Brawl is good... but somewhat of a disappointment. For one 
 Snake and Sonic made the cut... but Roy didn't? This was something that caught my eye. Another thing 
 was it wasn't a much roster improvement (From 26 to 35) . Some characters didn't really need to be 
 in this game. Some in my opinion are Snake, wolf, Game and watch, Diddy, metakinght, King Dee Dee Dee. Along 
 with some others. These characters just don't fit. Seems like Sakurai didn't really put enough effort 
 into making this game. I think along with some people that a lot more characters could have been 
 in this game. More fire emblem characters, more Mario characters, more Metroid Prime characters etc.
 
  
  Besides that the game is good. Great multiplayer. Though I have trouble finding people to play in 
 Wi-Fi. My brother and I play this game but fail to find that spark that made the original Smash 
 bros. and Melee great. The single player is the same (there is nothing wrong with that) . all star 
 mode is now co-op which is a plus. The great thing is the whole new mode which is called The subspace 
 Emissary. It's a great part of the game. It is also co-op which is again a plus.
  
  The game play is great along with awesome graphics. All of this plays smoothly. Great fun with friends. Besides 
 a few ups and downs Brawl is a good game all around. Hook it up to wi-fi and you sometimes get footage 
 and pictures from Nintendo. Although Multiplayer is the best way to go... but I guess you already 
 knew that! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king-kill33
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 15, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. is a series that started life as a not so well known N64 beat em' up... but with 
 a twist, the twist was that you could choose as any one of 12 well known (and the not so) Nintendo 
 characters from past and present. Anybody who owned an N64 would have likely played this game, 
 anybody that didn't probably wouldn't have. Jump to 2001, the Gamecube has just been released and 
 it's announced that the Smash Bros. will be back for another bout of face slapping and butt stomping. 
 Originally lined up for a release title, Melee took the world by storm, both critically and publicly. 
 It stands today as the biggest selling Gamecube game of all time and the pinnacle of Multiplayer 
 fun. The character roster was turned up a major notch to now include 25 of Nintys colourful freaks, 
 and thats not to mention the plethora of stages, modes, items and sheer content in the game. What 
 more could one ask for?
  
  Well, It's 2008 and the third iteration in the smash series is finally upon us (even in Europe 
 =P) Anticipation for this game has reached fever pitch, and has been since it was first announced 
 pre Wii in 2006. So does this game live up to it's absolutely colossal expectation, I would most 
 definitely argue that it does, and then some. The graphics have been bumped up, the sound is now 
 even crisper and it's hard to imagine how it all fits onto a single disc, Super Smash Bros is Back!!!
 
  
  Lets start off with what has changed, we now have an even bigger character roster than before, 
 including some 35 brawlers (37 if you include Sheik and Zero Suit Samus) , even more stages including 
 old and new, new modes, new items, new customisable options... you get the idea. Of these worthy 
 mentions would go to the inventive and rather fun stage creator, the new and uber powerful final 
 smash balls which unleash a deadly and unique attack on your opponents. For those who are looking 
 to go solo there is also a new adventure mode called the Subspace Emissary which can also be played 
 by two people. It isnt going to break any ground, and it does fee a little awkward but its a nice 
 lengthy addition none the less and the best way to go about unlocking all the characters, stickers 
 and trophies.
  
  Possibly the best new option, WIFI
  
  WIFI online play was what this title was screaming out for right from the start, and the only REAL 
 addition to this game other than aesthetics. It has it's faults (lag-o-riffic) but the fact it 
 is there and for the most part it works is enough. Finally, even the loner with no friends can 
 enjoy SSB the way it is meant to be played. Chances are, if you are planning on buying this, or 
 already have then you had made your mind up long before actually playing or seeing it, if you enjoyed 
 any of the previous titles then you will love this.
  I know it may just seem like Melee with a few more bells and whistles, and you may be right but 
 there is no denying the sheer excitement and joy that this game brings. With it's smooth controls 
 and tons of options and unlockables you will be playing for months, as this is certianly one game 
 that does not get old fast.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoshiFan14
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  What can I say that's bad about this game? I'll tell you what, notihng! I've played so many matches 
 it would take your whole lifetime to count them. And if you want to know what this game is, listen 
 up... or read up. Super Smash Bros. Brawl in filled with all sorts of Nintendo characters (and 
 Sonic and Snake) that are just in the game to beat each other up. And you know that old Nintendo 
 character that you thought you'd never see again? Yes, him. He is in there! Also, the Subspace 
 Emissary is so addicting you'll find yourself playing it over and over and over again. And with 
 WiFi, you'll be rating this game 100 stars higher. Whio knows who you'll be playing against?! This 
 game is so insanely awesome, that everybody I know that has a Wi, has this game! And the people 
 that don't have Wiis play this game all the time at their friends' houses and at Keisterz! You 
 won't regret buying this game. Well what are you wasting your time reading this review for? Buy 
 the game! Quick! Before Walmart is closed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersonikk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  I bought Super Smash Bros. Melee for my Cube about three weeks ago to see what all the fuss was 
 about. It blew me away and I was constantly playing it until I won all the characters I wanted. 
 Then someone actually offered me to burrow a Nintendo Wii for less than a week and also lent me 
 five games and two Wii controllers. Among the five games, to my surprise and delight, was Super 
 Smash Bros. Brawl. I plugged in the old GC controllers and played Brawl and only Brawl all the 
 time I had the Wii.
  
  A lot of features are taken from Melee, but there is also a lot of additions. The main difference 
 is the character roster. In Melee, there are about 25 playable characters, some of them having 
 exactly the same moves as another character (e. g. Link and Young Link, Pikachu and Pichu and Mario, 
 Dr. Mario and Luigi) , making them pointless. In Brawl, there are 35 characters, and I found that 
 I liked some of the newer characters a lot more than any of the characters in Melee - my favourites 
 are now Pit, Meta Knight, Ike and Sonic, none of which are found in Melee.
  
  There are three main modes - Classic, Adventure (The story has been named "The Subspace Emissary") 
 and Brawl (basically multiplayer mode) . The classic mode is as it was before: you fight through 
 various brand new stages belonging to different characters. Like in Melee, you get to choose the 
 difficulty and your stock amount and there are also mini-games between specific stages. If you 
 finish classic mode meeting certain requirements, you will be able to fight a character to unlock 
 him/her after you have defeated the boss. There were a couple of things that annoyed me about the 
 classic mode - one of them is that they have kept the same boss called "Master Hand" from the last 
 game, one of the least imaginative boss characters in any game that I have come across. The other, 
 slightly more irritating thing is that they no longer award you with more points for e. g. item 
 knockouts, half minute battles or unbeatability. Even worse, they do not even take away points 
 for constantly using the same moves all the time - so you can beat up an enemy by tapping "B" all 
 the time and get rewarded for the damage supplied and time you did it in. Overall, same old boring 
 classic mode - predictable and tired.
  
  The Subspace Emissary, however, makes up for the classic mode. As if this game hasn't already given 
 you enough to do, the adventure mode is an all-new story that will take approximately 10 hours 
 to complete, and could be a game in itself. The Subspace Emissary features all the characters in 
 the roster as well as cut-scenes and boss battles all perfectly packaged. Basically, you play as 
 every character in different levels on a map in groups of 2-5 at first. Each time you complete 
 a level, a new one is unlocked. The battles within the levels are link in classic or Brawl mode, 
 except you are not in a familiar setting and not necessarily among familiar rivals. All other parts 
 of the level could be described as Megaman style gameplay - 2D action but with lots of different 
 characters and therefore abilities. You will climb up ladders, pick up items and push buttons like 
 in general platformer games but whilst doing all this, each special character that joins you becomes 
 unlocked for all other modes. Although this mode boasts being able to play with over 30 characters 
 unlike other platformers, there are some disadvantages in terms of limits e. g. you cannot ride 
 vehicles or jump into suits, there are no character-specific problems - all characters in SSE have 
 the ability to achieve the same thing. However, a lot of platformers suffer from either bad, pointless 
 of lack of storylines. In Brawl, the storyline for the SSE is exciting, shocking, surprising and 
 sometimes touching - this is what separates it from Melee and rival epic game modes.
  
  Brawl mode is the similar to multiplayer mode in Melee, but the addition of characters and fresh 
 stages makes it better than Melee's multiplayer. Again, up to four people can play at the same 
 time including the CPU. There are a lot of words that could be used to describe this mode, but 
 I have narrowed it down to just three: hectic party fun! I could play hours and hours of this as 
 long as three other people are involved. If you don't have the will to complete The Subspace Emissary, 
 it will take you about 500 multiplayer battles to unlock all the characters and, trust me, this 
 shouldn't bother you at all.
  
  Another addition is the online play available. I did not get to play this that much as I spent 
 too much time on other modes, but when I did play I would say the quality of play including gameplay, 
 graphics and sound is almost as good as in the offline modes, depending on how good yours and other 
 players' connection to the Internet is.
  
  The gameplay of Brawl is fantastic like with Melee. It's truly amazing how good of a game can be 
 made with such simple controls for both types of controller - sure the gameplay doesn't have the 
 depth of Tekken, Soul Calibur or Virtua Fighter, but it doesn't need to as the skills you need 
 to do well in this game lie within other aspects such as decision and method. The way everyone 
 and everything moves is just so right. The fact that you can jump and drop though platforms and 
 fight your way back to the platforms with special moves is revolutionary amongst other things.
 
  
  The graphics are beautiful for this type of game - no one could have done it like Nintendo. The 
 characters are smooth, so perfectly textured as are the stages. There are basically no flaws in 
 this department as even in the game it looks like it could have been done by top CGI artists.
 
  
  Most of the music is good, but if you hear it too much it can get on your nerves but not as much 
 as a rubbish unoriginal licenced soundtrack would on a lot of heartless EA games. The voice acting 
 is not as good as it was on Melee - I know the voice acting is just sounding random noises and 
 words such as "hoo-hoo!" but some of the characters voices have been changed from Melee and they 
 don't sound right. This case applies mostly to characters that have been given American voice actors 
 instead of Japanese and it doesn't sound good. The sound effects for the game are very good whether 
 you are slashing with a light-sabre style sword or exploding after being KO'd.
  
  Overall, this is one of the best games I have ever played, regardless of some of the minor flaws. 
 To be honest, this is probably the nearest I have been so far to giving a 10/10 for a video game 
 on this site even though I would like to think I enjoyed Tekken 5 and Soul Calibur 3 more. For 
 some reason, the heart of Super Smash Bros. Brawl just wins you over.
  
  Take a look at my GameSpot account for more reviews. Add me on the PS3, my ID is now JEZKUN. See 
 y'at the fight =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFgeoffrey-the-
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  Super smash brothers brawl, The war to see who gets the smash ball trophy this year. The perfect 
 game for your anger issues, having fun with your friends on the game, trying to make your next 
 door nieghbor river cry once you beat him/her with lucas (XD) , and the coolest wii game ever. Many 
 charaters will arive in the game, Ike from fire emblem, Sonic from the sonic the hedgehog series, 
 Snake from the metal gear solid games, pokemon trainer from the pokemon series, and wind waker 
 link from legand of Zelda wind waker and the phantom hourglass games. Including the smash ball to 
 bring SSB to a whole level of Woah. Break it and BOOM! everyone's fried. But if you're wondering 
 why won't toad be in brawl... He's peach's sheild people, seriously! But really love story mode 
 cuase it shows what's happening with the charaters. Kinda like the chronicles of Narnia's point 
 of view with edmund and the 3 other kids. But if you don't have it yet well... It means you're a 
 no0bwad. This is the best game to play ever since Halo 3. So, here's my scores for the game:
  
  10/10 graphics
  10/10 gameplay
  10/10 music
  10/10 charaters
  10/10 fun
  Total score 
 50/50
  This game deserves a A++++
  thanks your for reading this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvilFlanders88
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2008 12:51 am PT
Review:  I always knew SSBB was gonna be a big game. I loved melee even though i never had GC (played it 
 at cousins) and knew i was going to buy Brawl. I payed 37.99 for it and to be honest it was the 
 best 37.99 I spent in my life (only 14) . It 's graphics unbelievably amazing for the wii and the 
 gameplay is immense. 35 characters to play as and even more because of the fact zelda turns to 
 Sheik etc. It is such a worthwhile game with so many different modes and unlockables. There are 
 tons of CD's which enable you to listen to battle music or music from past nintendo titles. There 
 are around 550 trophies and 700 stickers so believe me you will be kept busy with this game. It 
 is way worth it's money and the things I have described here is just a little of what you get. 
 Amazing game wii owners must but this!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: countdouku1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  super smash bros brawl is the third title in the the smash bros seris. starting off by invading 
 the n64 system then taking or the game cube and making a final smash move on the wii. it pulled 
 me in with the best graphics i've ever seen from the wii or any other nintendo system and gameplay 
 that you could drool over. if you have tried have tried one of the games in that seris it's a no 
 brainer and if you own a wii it's one of the recomended games. one of the things that caught my 
 eye was the charachter and stage selection. all the returning charachters got makeovers and the 
 new charachters look really nice and i'm not sure how they got sega to give and and steal snake 
 from konami. the stages are still the same. have one for every game that a charachter is featured 
 in but they do have a few from random games like picto chat and animal crossing. one of the big 
 things about the game i havent mentioned which is the addition of the final smash. most of the 
 final smashes result in k. o's but some are just bad. this is definatly a game you have to buy wii 
 owners and nintendo lovers. i still have one question. is this the smash bros final smash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dodfod12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 4:02 am PT
Review:  You can't dispute the success of Nintendo's Super Smash Bros. series. The simply two-attack-button 
 formula allows novice players to easily pick up and play, but skilled players will be able to master 
 their favourite characters and learning their movesets thoroughly. Even though this is such a simple 
 basis for a game, the game doesn't sacrifice depth.
  
  The goal in each match is to knock your opponent off the screen. Sounds simple right? Well, it 
 can be, but when playing against a skilled player this is definitely easier said than done. While 
 Brawl doesn't dramatically change any part of the Smash Bros. formula, if it ain't broken, why 
 fix it?
  
  The Super Smash Bros. series doesn't involve any healthbars or hitpoints. Instead, damage is measured 
 in a percentage. The higher your percentage is, the further you'll fly when hit. Items and stages 
 can have a massive effect on the outcome of a game, which serves to make the matches even more 
 exciting. The game is extremely fast-paced, and is great to play in short bursts, but can very 
 easily be played in lengthy sessions. 
  
  The majority of Brawl's enjoyment comes from it's Multiplayer modes. Brawl is the perfect party 
 game - it's extremely competitive, easy to pick up and play, and is exciting enough to keep you 
 interested. All of this aside, Brawl offers some excellent single player modes. Classic Mode takes 
 you through a series of Brawls, while Subspace Emissary leads you through a lengthy adventure mode. 
 
  
  You won't start off with all characters, stages and miscellanies unlocked, so unlocking all of 
 these will require a lot of time, but during it, it won't feel like a chore. Aside from the primary 
 unlockables, Brawl presents you with a series of challenges, which will take anyone a very long 
 to complete. Some are easy and can be done without batting an eyelid, while others are very difficult 
 and will require some skill to obtain. 
  
  Overall, Brawl is excellent value. With such a brilliant multiplayer mode, amazing single player, 
 a lot of challenges/unlockables and a good online mode, Brawl is a game every Wii owner should 
 have in their collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: undead_stickman
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Simple, 
  If you own a Nintendo Wii, if you love the undeniable charm of all the classic Nintendo characters, 
 you must get this game, no matter what the price tag.
  All the characters are thrown together in an insane, button mashing mosh, on some brilliantly designed 
 stages, the best of which has to be a pictochat stage, with backgrounds that are drwn and erased 
 randomly, and all affect play, such as platforms or spikes.
  You still have the classic fight mode form the old games, (now called BRAWL mode) , but the story 
 mode has undergone a mssive change, now known as 'The Subspace Emissary'. A side-scrolling mode 
 that puts you, and an ever increasing cast of characters, good and bad, in charge of saving the 
 world from Subspace and a diabolical, evil force. 
  It is no doubt that this has been a highly antcipated title, and it hasn't disappointed.
  Dope 
 4 eva y'all, i'm outta here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bopie64
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  I will enjoy Super Smash Bros Brawl for a long time, probably for as long as I enjoyed Melee (which 
 was until Brawl came out) . They have amazing replay value. The long story mode seemed a little 
 tacked on, but it was still fun, with amazing music. The music is great, especially on the Subspace 
 Emissary. Unlocking the characters does take a long time, and the last boss is a bit annoying, 
 but I still enjoyed the story mode, although the plot was pointless. It also had a great way to 
 introduce one certain character who was almost completely unexpected to be playable. The offline 
 multiplayer is amazing, like melee, although some levels are a little annoying most are quite fun. 
 The online, however, is laggy on With Anyone, and is also pointless to play on With Anyone because 
 you must do Timed Matches, which are no fun at all because there is no way of telling who is the 
 best. If they made it a 3 or 5 stock match, it would have been much better. With Friends is great, 
 if you can find anyone online, and connect to them, and is generally not very laggy. This is much 
 better than with anyone. Overall it is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireboost11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Where to start, where to start. Okay, I know. Let's start with ...
  the graphics: First of all the graphics are solid, amazing and spectacular. Every single character 
 dorky as they may be ( i. e.: donkey kong, bowser, diddy kong) , look great. The animations for the 
 final smashes, stages, attacks, and characters, are top tier. I would have to say, no wii game 
 comes even close to the great graphics, not even mario kart.
  
  Moving on, next up is the story: the regular story mode by itself in the first game is kinda boring 
 after a while, but nintendo fixed that up really wisely by adding the subspace emmisarry. It's 
 long, enjoyable and fun, and has just the perfect length and difficulty for a great game.
  
  But now, the real greatness of the game is the multiplayer. It is a great game for party's 
 since it's a game 90% of the world loves, and if you've never played the game before, its really 
 easy to catch on. 
  
  Man, I gotta wrap this up since I have to get off the computer now, but everything about the game 
 is great including things I didn't mention like the characters, the 4 different controller types 
 and the most amazing of them all...
  
  the huge variety, so you never get tired of playing the same game over and over again.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toon_Link87
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. has always been a fun series that puts many different Nintendo characters and 
 Nintendo worlds together, to create an awesome fighting game. In this game there are two firsts 
 for the series, one is the 3rd party characters and the other is the online play. The 3rd party 
 characters in my opinion is great, especially Sonic since you can now put Sonic and Mario to fight 
 to finally prove who is superior. The online play was a great idea but there are some flaws including 
 lag and taking awhile to find matches to join. Most of the time the online does work great for 
 me, especially when battling friends, and the online seems to be improving.
  
  Super Smash Brothers Brawl also adds a lot more features like many great new stages like Pictochat, 
 Delfino Plaza, and Shadow Moses Island. Each stage is different and can change the way you do battle, 
 which keeps the game fresh. There is even a stage creator which allows you to design a stage to 
 play on. Another great feature is the addition of new characters like Pit, Metaknight, King DeeDeeDee, 
 Diddy Kong, Zero Suit Samus, and many more. Many of these new stages and characters are unlockable 
 which will make you keep playing and enjoying the game for a long time.
  
  Brawl also including a new story mode with videos to do all the storytelling. Just like most Nintendo 
 games there is no voice acting so it may be hard to figure out what is going on, but its still 
 pretty entertaining. The gameplay in story mode reminds me of an old Kirby platfomer, a sidescroller 
 where you beat up the badguys. Once in awhile you will encounter a boss where you fight them normally. 
 Overall I thought this new addition was enjoyable, especially when you had another player help 
 you (its two player) . Me and my brother both enjoyed beating it together.
  
  There are 4 controllers that you can use in this game: The Wiimote sideways, the Wiimote + nunchuck, 
 the Gamecube controller, and the classic controller. I have used every single controller method 
 except the classic and I must say they all work very well, even the Wiimote on its side. Basically, 
 for all the controller methods I played with you have two main buttons a melee attack button, a 
 special attack button. You can also press up, down, left, right while pressing these buttons to 
 do a different attack. There are also buttons to block and grab the other fighters. The controls 
 are easy enough for a beginner to use, but that doesn't mean this game requires skill. Veterans 
 often make up strategies and constantly play it to get better.
  
  The graphics are some of the best on the Wii. All the characters and stages look highly detailed, 
 colorful, and beautiful all while maintaining a great frame rate. The music and sound effects are 
 mostly borrowed from other classic Nintendo games, so if you are a long time Nintendo gamer you 
 would recognize most of the songs. There are many songs in this game, which means that you won't 
 get tired of any of them. And you can even unlock more!
  
  Overall this game will keep you busy for a long time. The unlockables and multiplayer mode will 
 prevent the game from being old. This game is just plain fun and I'm sure anyone can enjoy it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seniorDK
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 19, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  This is everything and more you could ask for in a smash bros game!
  If you had played either of the other games this one is really the same idea. To me it is kinda 
 difficult to master the controls with this game, it is kinda hard at first. But if you wanted to 
 you could play with the game cube controller. The wifi mode is lso very fun but can get a little 
 skippy some times and even freeze the whole game. This game is great. But i do think it is a little 
 bit over rated. i guess its because this game was so anticipatede for. But what i was really excited 
 for in this game was the new characters. i practically dies when i heaed that diddy is in this 
 game! if you like games that you can play with your friends hours on end just destroying people 
 this game is definantly for you. the one thing about smash bros games is that like unlike other 
 games they keep getting better!
  i give this game  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninwin99
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2008 9:34 pm PT
Review:  What can i say, this game absolutely rocks. The gameplay never gets old, and with 4 players playing 
 together it's arguably the best fun to be had for any game. There is so much content in this game 
 that it's almost an absolute steal. 35 characters, over 40 stages including stage-builder, and 
 tons of modes for both single player and multiplayer. Many people say that the SSE is boring and 
 repetitive, but i have to disagree. I really enjoyed the SSE and even go as far as to say that 
 it can even be a stand alone game. But that's not all, there's so many other modes that you'll 
 be busy for a very long time. Of course multiplayer is its greatest strength and whenever i get 
 together with friends to play wii, ssbb is a must.
  The only minor complaint that i have with this game is that i wish the fighting was just a bit 
 faster, it seemed to have gotten a little slower from melee and especially from the n64 one. Regardless, 
 this is one of the defining games for the wii and will be for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gronk-bonk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  super smash bros brawl is the game that many hardcore gamers have been waiting for. The major appeal 
 for the game has been the competitive nature of the gameplay, basically it involves an individual 
 attacking opponents to deal enough damage to knock them out of the arena. Attacks are divided into 
 two areas special and normal attacks. special attacks are performed by pressing the b buttom ( 
 gamecube pad setup) and directional tilt these attacks vary in effect and power depending on the 
 charater. normal attacks are performed by the A bottom and directional tilt the attack effect and 
 power are again dependant on the character. Movement is simply controlled by the analogue stick. 
 The gameplay mechanincs seem simple by their is great deal with depth. Using the characters to 
 the full ability and been able to predict and control opponents is the addiction to the game.
 
  
  A siginiifcant change from melee to brawl is the extension of value of the single player experience 
 adding more features like boss battle modes, the addition of inline and local coop play within 
 stadium gameplya and most importantly the addition of a fleshed out story adventure mode and online 
 play.
  
  The supsbace emmissary is the adventure mode that players hoped to be in melee. it is beautifully 
 synthesised together by well done CG cutscenes and the overall presentation is effecient. All the 
 gameplay mechanics remain the same in the subspace emmissary but stats can be changed by applying 
 stickers to the buttom of the trophy stands. which is a great idea but not really essential to 
 finish the game. The main complaint i have with the SSE it was to tedious and repitive which was 
 reaffirmed in the last stage the great maze. All in all subspace emissary is a solid addition to 
 the brawl experience.
  
  The online play of brawl isnt terribly good, many people were hoping for a greater experience. 
 Their are two main sections play with friends and with anyone, playing with friends is essential 
 for a great online experience as the lag is significantly less than in anyone and mostly there 
 will be no lag at all. with friends you can change the rules, but in anyone ir is set to two minute 
 brawl matches. My Main complaint about the the online is that it suffers form common lag issue 
 and there is no reward system or online leader seem in most online game.
  
  To summarise the game it was money well spent, the sheer possible hours of that can be spent in 
 this game can warrant a purchase, but the main reason that anyone buys smash bros is the addictive 
 fun achieved by smashin a nintendo character. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sanim02
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  The smash bros. series were mainly the best way to prove which character is stronger than the other 
 in the nintendo universe. If you and your friend have a fight about if Mario can beat Link or if 
 Pikachu is stronger than Charizard.. This is the game for you. Brawl is by far, the most fun multiplayer 
 experience ever.. well one of the best and now it's even better since there is online play now.. 
 which makes Super Smash Bros. Brawl even better.. But was it polished enough to make it all the 
 wait worth while? yes.. but still leaves a bit to be desired..
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Pros: Easy to pick up and play, Huge roster of characters, Best online or offline experience on 
 the Wii, more.. 
  
  Cons: Huge roster of characters... but could've used a few more, Many levels in the adventure mode 
 are simply annoying. No Wii motion controls.. : (
  
  Score: 10/10
  
  Smash bros. was always an easy game to pick up and play, but also a lot of depth in the game while 
 your at it. The game simply is about you ranking up damage on your opponent and once it's over 
 100% or even 150% for most characters, you can smash attack them off screen and you win. There 
 are soo many rules in the game that it's not even funny. You can play the game in stock mode ( 
 with lives ) , time attack ( get most wins ) , giant brawl, mini brawl and soo much more. The game 
 has 35 characters starting from Mario, Link, Pikachu to Fox, Captain Falcon and even Sonic. Each 
 character has their own strenght and weakness but they are all equal and no one out wits the other. 
 The game offers the old classic mode, All star mode and Stadium mode. This time around the new 
 adventure mode known as the Subspace Emisionnary is a whole new story where some mysterious villian 
 wants to take over the world. I don't want to say to much about it but it's full of platforming 
 stuff like in the old school Mario games and is very fun. Although some of the levels can be a 
 little drag and annoying. You can play the game with the Wii Remote, Wii classic controler, Wii 
 Remote and Nunchuck and GC controler, which probably makes everyone happy with the games control 
 schemes. Although the game doesnt have any Wii motion controls.. which is a bit sad seeing as it's 
 a Wii game.. But you won't really care anyway.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Pros: Best graphics available on the Wii, thus far.. , Superb animation, No frame rate issues at 
 all
  
  Cons: The backgrounds while playing through the adventure mode seem.. lifeless.
  
  Score: 10/10
  
  Graphically, Brawl is down rightthe best looking Wii game to date. The 
 texture, frame rate and detail is just right in every way and really makes the game feel next gen. 
 The game looks outstanding in every aspect and also the cutscenes in the adventure mode are just.. 
 SUPERB.
  
  Sound:
  
  Pros: All the nintendo classic tunes are redone in the game, new soundtracks are off the hook, 
 over 200 different songs!
  
  Cons: Most of the good songs must be collected by finding cds in the game. ( not that its bad but 
 very annoying) .
  
  Score: 10/10
  
  A nintendo game is nothing without nintendo tunes and Brawl just proves how much thats true. You 
 can easily see how much care nintendo put in the soundtracks, since there are over 200 songs in 
 a perfect sense of each level. The one thing i found kind of annoying is that there were many cds 
 which i had to find.. and im still missing a few!
  
  Value: Overall the game is exactly what everybody expected.. I probably expected more, since I 
 waited ever since I had finished everything from Melee and I was kind of disappointed by the lack 
 of characters such as Krystal, Shadow, Shadow Mario and a few more and also the fact that they 
 took away Roy. Also the game has slowed down a bit compaired to Melee which gives new players more 
 ease with the game and veterans more time to readjust to the game. Overall if you own a Wii, it's 
 nothing without Brawl and if you have many friends it's the best way the chill during the summer 
 vacation! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_Resonance
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl, a outstanding game with all the most famous Nintendo characters which go 
 head-to-head in a 2-D fight. From Mario, Link, Kirby, Samus, Star Fox, to even two non-Nintendo 
 characters; Sonic the Hedgehog and Solid Snake. From N64 Smash to Melee to now Brawl the game has 
 progressed ten-fold. The fighting is great and runs very smoothly. The game has some new features 
 too such as Stage Creator, a Single and Co-op story mode called The Subspace Emissary, and now 
 Online play!!
  
  Stage building is great although very limited and the story mode is a nice new touch, too. The 
 online is fun, but can get very frustrating with Friend Codes and Brawl Codes. Also the game might 
 run slow and lag, but its still fun to play with friends or with anybody you happen to get paired 
 up with.
  
  Overall Super Smash Bros Brawl is a great game with a never ending appeal thanks to the new online 
 feature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luislb88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  this was awsome the graphics aren't the best but the game was still awsome. almost everything is 
 2 player. the adventure made was good. The new modes including stickers and music was awsome like 
 the song called his world sound great too. whoever doesn't have this game has to get it. trust 
 me paying 50 bucks for this game is worth it. you may think its alot but it isnt. the game also 
 features online play for more action. sonic is in the game and he's kind of good and kind of not 
 good. snake was good in fact with his great fighting moves. his speacial is awsome its hard to 
 not get hit too on most levels. you can even create your own level. this game is like no other 
 game. that ive played. melee was good and i thought the best but this is the best. with all new 
 features. there are glicthes in this game that is funny. And beating up a sandbag on sepcial brawl 
 is funny. XD get it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blind9d
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  this was awsome the graphics aren't the best but the game was still awsome. almost everything is 
 2 player. the adventure made was good. The new modes including stickers and music was awsome like 
 the song called his world sound great too. whoever doesn't have this game has to get it. trust 
 me paying 50 bucks for this game is worth it. you may think its alot but it isnt. the game also 
 features online play for more action. sonic is in the game and he's kind of good and kind of not 
 good. snake was good in fact with his great fighting moves. his speacial is awsome its hard to 
 not get hit too on most levels. you can even create your own level. this game is like no other 
 game. that ive played. melee was good and i thought the best but this is the best. with all new 
 features. there are glicthes in this game that is funny. And beating up a sandbag on sepcial brawl 
 is funny. XD get it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p0k3_l0v3rs
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2008 4:17 am PT
Review:  this game is a must buy! even if you've not played a SSB before it's still amazing! it has a new 
 story mode called the subspace emissionary, and even better you can play wi-fi! you can battle 
 with your friends using the same console, or up to 4 different ones! over 30 characters to play 
 as each with there own special moves and new final smashes which can change the game altogether! 
 an absolutely astonishing game, we all new this game looked good, but once you buy it you realise 
 it's all it's cracked up to be and more! it's highly addictive and it gets better as you go along! 
 with new characters like snake, wario and the long awaited sonic, meta knight and more! it also 
 has all of the old characters including of course mario! luigi! link kirby and the rest! this game 
 is easy to play for the newcomer, but can be very challenging for the veteran fighter! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGSKojima
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 17, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  ok so i've always been a fan of super smash bros. but this has set my expectations through the 
 roof lol. There is a lot of content, more fun levels to play on and an online mode as well! The 
 local multiplayer is fun too, only if you have a bunch of friends though. I like the fact that 
 you can take screenshots and share them to your friends or send replay videos as well. The roster 
 is amazing and adds more fun to the game... i mean come on! Snake, Sonic, Wario, meta knight... they 
 are all awesome, you have more event levels and the trophies are better than ever. I love the trophies 
 used in the game because they help you win. Super Smash bros. Brawl is a must buy and has tons 
 of replay value... go and get it if you haven't. I consider this the best party game for wii so 
 go outttt and gett ittttttt!!!! lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dax-360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  After years of waiting It's finally here! Super Smash Bros. Brawl has made it's way to the Wii. 
 SSBB is the sequel to the Gamecube hit, Super Smash Bros. Melee. Following the same style as the 
 other games, a good ole' fighting game with some of Nintendo's most recognized characters like 
 Mario, Link, Kirby, Pikachu, and more! (Not to mention a certain blue hedgehog and a solid snake) 
 Brawl's adventure mode, The Subspace Emissary, tells the story of Smash Bros. and the subspace 
 army led by Taboo. It's basically a side scrolling adventure. Think of it as two games in one. 
 There is still the supporting Classic mode and the returning All-Star mode. The new stage builder 
 mode is neat to. The biggest shocker of the game for me was the Wi-Fi compatibility. Now I can 
 take on a legion of smash bros. fans around the world from the comfort of my home. 
  
  PROS: 
  - 25+ Characters
  - Nice Graphics
  - Amazing Adventure Mode
  - Wi-Fi Compatible
 
  - Co-op Adventure Mode
  
  CONS:
  - After Subspace it gets boring
  - You get that repetive feeling
  
  OVERALL: 9.5/10
  A Must-Have
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: michael12345hih
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 17, 2008 12:42 am PT
Review:  This game has surpassed my expectations. Stellar graphics, Fun game play, side scrolling adventure 
 mode fun. What more can you ask for? This game entertains me almost everyday and never seems to 
 get boring with so many levels, music, characters, and even a stage editor the possibilities are 
 endless. Anyone who likes any type of fighting games, Nintendo games, or just want a game to keep 
 them occupied this is defiantly the game I would suggest for you to BUY not to rent. You don't 
 even need to play the other two Smash Bros. This is a game that will be popular for years to come. 
 If you have not yet bought this game of you don't even have a wii then this game is almost worth 
 getting a wii just to play it because it is so darned fun. With so many people to chose from there 
 is almost always a person you have seen in a previous Nintendo game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MooncalfReviews
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Review by Mooncalf Reviews - gaming for the thinking player.
  
  
  As I write this review I begin to think about what I can do to prepare myself for getting lynched 
 by the fanboys. For starters, I guess I can prologue my somewhat negative review by stating that 
 I have been a big fan of Nintendo games in the past, and I even bought the first Smash Brothers 
 for the N64 way back when it wasn't as popular as it is today. I loved it back then.
  
  So what's changed? Well, not a lot. And that's the problem.
  
  Smash Brothers, when you get 
 right down to it, doesn't have a whole lot of new features to offer. Sure, there's new characters, 
 new unlockables, and a new online mode (all of which I will systematically complain about shortly) , 
 but it just doesn't feel like a different game to me. The changes haven't come in places that count.
 
  
  Let's take the new unlockables for example. First of all, the thing that everyone raves on about 
 when they talk about Smash Brothers: the characters.
  
  So, we've got some nice newcomers. The Pokemon trainer and the guy from Pikmin are both very well 
 made, and welcome additions. Likewise, the inclusion of Sonic and Snake shows bravery in the fact 
 that Nintendo are willing to outsource characters from developers other than just themselves. However, 
 it did leave me wondering: if Sonic and Snake had been outsourced  why weren't other characters 
 also included? 
  
  Does our new, fully unlocked roster finally give us those characters we've been waiting for from 
 back in the day? Those retro cult classics, such as Little Mac from Punchout and Alex from River 
 City Ransom? Unfortunately not. And what about characters from more famous games that were once 
 on a Nintendo system, such as Ryu from Street Fighter II, or Megaman, or how about Locke from Final 
 Fantasy VI? 
  
  Keep draming! 
  
  Instead of a feast of retro nostalgia, we are given a load of characters that are, in essence, 
 clones of other characters. Not only are we given Link, but Toon Link! What a total waste of space. 
 And then if Fox Mcloud wasn't bad enough, we're given not one of his clones, but TWO; Wolf AND 
 Falco, which have very similar moves, and are from the same sub-standard series of characters. 
 And then there's Kirby. I don't know many people who actually played Kirby back in the day, but 
 here we are with Meta Knight (his slightly cooler clone) and King Dedede, who  while not being 
 a clone of Kirby  is far too lame to include in such a highly anticipated game. And the list goes 
 on! And then there's a whole bunch of characters that I can't imagine anyone in their right mind 
 choosing unless they are trying to give their friends a severe handicap of epic uncoolness.
  
  Nintendo! Behold as I improve your character roster in just one paragraph: Goron, James Bond, 
 Conker, Megaman, Locke, Alex, Little Mac, King Hippo, Battletoad, Gerudu, Goeman, Wart, Harvestmoon 
 Guy, Jake Armatage, Young Merlin, Olaf (from lost Vikings) , Joanna Darke, Nina (Breath of Fire) , 
 Bubsy, the frog from Chrono Trigger, a Lemming, Peter The Fireman, and while you are including 
 SEGA characters, why not add some guys from Altered Beast, Golden Axe and Alex Kid?
  
  So, while most of the unlockable characters are about as sought-after as the clap (unless you are 
 a big Sonic fan, and then you have issues anyway) , what else is there to unlock? 
  
  The stages and the music unlockables are pretty good, especially the new stages which are mostly 
 very inventive (as you would expect from a Nintendo game) , but most of the tasks required to unlock 
 things only give a trophy as a reward. Now, maybe I'm missing something, but what's the point of 
 the hundreds upon hundreds of trophies? Who in their right mind would take the time to unlock them 
 all? If you are one such person, I'd love to hear from you, just out of morbid curiosity. 
  
  But let's not forget the online mode! Yes, in all its glory; MARVEL as the Wii slows to a lagging 
 crawl usually only reserved for Playstation games! GAPE at the complete lack of online options 
 such as stock and coin battles, or a points system. SEARCH around for the lacking online rankings 
 for things such as target breaking, multi-man and home run world records. COMPARE that to Mario 
 Kart's online functions, which truly blows Brawl's online playability out of the proverbial water 
 like a 40 gunned Ship of the Line going up against a lowly Sloop with 1 gun and a couple of guys 
 throwing rocks from the poop deck. Mario Kart Wii's online mode flows almost flawlessly, with a 
 total lack of noticeable lag, despite the inclusion of a full 12 players at any one time. It also 
 sports time trials records, bi-weekly competitions, and the possibility of connecting to other 
 random worldwide players without having to wait so long that by the time it actually happens, Smash 
 Brothers 4 comes out on the Wii2, your kids are all pensioners and you've taken to wetting your 
 sofa through your overflowing incontinence pants. Mario Kart's online play  to coin a phrase of 
 the zeitgeist  simply pwns Smah Brothers'.
  
  But don't get the wrong idea. I gave Brawl a 6 because it's a distinctly above average game! It 
 does have its plusses, as I will now explore:
  
  The music in Brawl is quite simply astounding. That such works of compositional excellence can 
 come from just several decades of retro video games, is truly a feat worthy of praise. Nintendo 
 has composers that could rival those found in Hollywood with barely a late night's worth of tinkering 
 on a keyboard. Moreover, the fact that you have to work to unlock some of its most tasty musical 
 treats is something that will keep you coming back (if indeed you appreciate classical video game 
 music) . I can  with confidence  declare that collectively, this score is the greatest ever seen 
 on a video game, simply because it encompasses some of the greatest games ever made.
  
  If one finds themselves searching around for the apparently devoid trademark Nintendo originality, 
 one only needs to take a peak at the new stages, which are packed full of ingenuity, interactivity, 
 and clever in-battle pitfalls. This, and the (slightly under-functioned) stage maker pushes Brawl 
 up from being a run-of-the-mill Nintendo re-make to something a little more classy. The stage maker 
 is very fun. I spent hours on it making various nasty stages, from the "bouncy castle" stage full 
 of spring-boards, to the "Sniped" stage, which allows sneaky players to hide in the rafters and 
 throw things down at enemies to slowly whittle down their stock.
  
  In conclusion, Brawl is a good game, but it could have been SO much more. If you loved Melee so 
 much that you bought a Wii for the very anticipation of Brawl, then get this game. Also, if you've 
 never played a Smash Brothers outing, get this game. If you only ever thought Smash Brothers games 
 were just good (rather than the best games EVER) , and you expected Nintendo to rise the bar with 
 this remake (as they have done so many times in the past) , you might be disappointed.
  
  As for me, I almost want to get a refund. Call me back to the Brawl franchise when it has lag-less 
 online fighting mode (that includes Mii usage) , 100+ characters, and an inclusive RPG mode similar 
 to River City Ransom.
  
  ---
  
  Score Breakdown 
  Based on the non-story variation of the Mooncalf Reviews scoring system as shown on this blog post:
 
  http://uk. gamespot. com/users/MooncalfReviews/show_blog_entry. php? topic_id=m-100-25395842
  
  
      Story: N/A
  
      Hook: N/A
  
      Characters: 4
  Some of the greatest video 
 game characters ever made, all included in one game. But also some of the very worst characters 
 ever made, all included in the same game.
  
      Originality: 2
  Games tend to lose their originality after their third re-make. And with little new to do, the 
 game doesn't pick up too many points in this criteria.
  
      Art: 3
  A mish-mash of all sorts of styles from various games; from realistic and gritty, to anime, to 
 cute balls of big-eyed fluff. As art, it's a fail. Graphically, however, it would get a 5 out of 
 5. It's a shame I don't rate graphics.
  
      Voice Acting and Script: N/A
  
      Music Score: 5
  Combining music from dozens of Nintendo games is something that reminds you 
 that video game music can be nothing short of compositional genius. Probably the best soundtrack 
 to a game, ever.
  
      Fun: 3
  Get 4 friends together and multiplayer brawl can be fun for a while. But we've seen it all before, 
 so it gets stale real quick. Playing it on your own gets repetitive.
  
      Freedom: 4
  If it's setting up a custom match you want, you couldn't have any more options available to you. 
 Loses a point because of its lack of online freedom.
  
      Lifespan: 3
  If you like unlocking clones of the characters you already have (but with different hair / cell 
 shading) and trophies, then this game will last you a very long time. If you don't, then you'll 
 get bored pretty quick.
  
      Multiplayer: 4
  In this day and age, games should include much more online options and content for online multiplayer. 
 Although Brawl fails at this, it still has pretty solid 4 player OFFline action.
  
  Total Points: 27 (out of a possible 40)
  
  Gamespot converted rating: 6
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalMan300
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  From the previews, it was pretty obvious that Super Smash Bros Brawl was going to be the hit game 
 that the Wii needed to appeal to non-casual gamers. But I was never expecting it to become this 
 amazing. For me, Brawl did what many other Wii games didn't do: it was a game that was simple enough 
 to learn, but deep enough to keep me playing long after buying it. It also makes many more advancements 
 to this game than I ever imagined it could with the stage creator. I originally thought that it 
 was going to be much too simple to appeal to me, but its simplicity is what makes it excellent. 
 It lets you begin with a simple, plain stage (like an flat arena with a pit of spikes in the middle) 
 and eventually, with time, create stages that are much more complex (like a stage with a small, 
 flat floor with countless moving platforms above it) . You can also take screenshots and save replays 
 to your hard-drive and send them to friends, and while this isnt done as brilliantly as halo 3, 
 it drastically increases the replay value of the game and allows you to enjoy your best games with 
 friends. The combat also follows this formula of easy to learn, hard to master. With only 2 attack 
 buttons, you'd think at first that the combat would be shallow, but when you account for the games 
 items and the countless combos that can be created in team battles, you'll always enjoy brawling 
 with your friends for hours on end. This game is what Nintendo needed to break out and appeal to 
 non-casual gamers, and it completely delivers on its promises. All Wii owners owe it to themselves 
 to buy this game. Its simple, family-friendly fun that anyone can play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linkluigipwned
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 16, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  This game is super feakin awesome need i say more all they need to fix is no jigglypuff and hopefully 
 they add more characters maybe the next game there will be a 160 character roster hahahaaha well 
 and maybe change captain falcons final smash to a super falcon punch that would be awesome! SUUUUPPPEERR 
 FALCON PAWNCCCHHHH! ha that would be funny so i give this game a OVER 9000! out of ten....... now 
 if they had dbz characters now that would be cool! SUPERRRRRR FALCON PAAWWNCCH! ha i can imagine 
 that it would be real funny.... OH WAITT!!! What if they made it more like worms where you can 
 destroy the platforms like pits level that i would make a jigglypuff level and DDESTROY THAT USELESS 
 PEICE OF *beep* AHAHA well JUST GO OUT AND BUY IT!! or else ness will OWN YOU!!! MUHAHAHA HA HA 
 hey if you are still reading this MY NEPHEW JUST TURNED ONE YAAAHHHH! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuiS-07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Characters: the characters in this game are the main thing, because you'll always find a different 
 character to use. melee had character doubles for example mario and dr. mario, pikachu and pichu, 
 link and young link. in brawl they have taken those characters out of the game, though put toon 
 link iin the game. Toon link is a double yet they put him in the game, maybe for those ds zelda 
 players? who knows. there are many newcomers to the game including Sonic the Hedghog and Snake 
 form Metal Gear Solid, the only Non-Nintendo character. 
  Stages:
  In bawl there are many stages to choose from, my personal favorite new pork city is a very large 
 stage that has great graphics. There are many great looking, very fun stages to choose from. There 
 is even a pictochat stage from ds, which the stage is drawn and rubbed out by the stylus. many 
 melee stages are in the game. One for each character, except of course sonic and snake. 
  The Subspace Emissary:
  A new edition to the game, Story mode. The story line, which i can't 
 give away, lets you play with every character in the game at least once, it gives you an option 
 of wich character you want as your main, This well definitley change very often. My first main 
 was Metaknight (a newcomer) , Then after i completed the subspace emissary, Sonic the hedgehog was 
 my main, Then after using him game after game after game i wanted a new main, someone with a sword, 
 again, so i chose link, but then I unlocked toon link, and thought, why not?. 
  WiFi:
  The wifi in this game is good, though while playing wifi i received allot of lag, even when playing 
 my local friends, so the wifi isn't as good as mario kart wii's. When playing online you are given 
 two options, play with anyone or with friends, when playing with anyone you may only play 2 minute 
 KO tests, though when with friends you can change what mode, what time, what items and what stages. 
 You may also spectate on online games to bet your coins, you take a look at either the teams or 
 the players, and make your bet, you then watch the game and find out who won and double your coins. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sobaka770
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  The Super Smash Bros Brawl is a very controversial game. While being extremely beautiful, funny 
 and unavoidable at parties, this game unfortunately misses just a little something from being absolutely 
 perfect on Wii. As usual, let's see what the game offers to us in order:
  
  Starting with positive points, it is important to note that while the Wii is often considered the 
 weakest next-gen console on the market in terms of hardware, and notably graphics, Nintendo universes 
 such as Mario or Zelda actually don't lose that much from not using the last generation pixel shading, 
 real time shadowing. or any other latest graphic innovation. To be honest there's a lot of cuteness 
 to be lost by Link or Mario should they try to alter their colorful and cartoony appearance. That 
 being said, SSBB is probably the most impressive looking game on Wii at this moment, just a little 
 ahead of Super Mario Galaxy. The characters are beautifully animated and we can feel the love that 
 Nintendo puts in each and every one of them. The stages are on par with the rest of the game and 
 the cut-scenes should you venture in the Single Player Mode are simply stunning to watch.
  
  The sound is also excellent with a lot of nice background soundtrack. The music is quite subtle 
 when you're in the middle of the fight, but overall the sound effects amplify the fun you get from 
 the game. 
  
  While being a champion in terms of technical capabilities SSBB also has a very smooth gameplay, 
 but this is where the small glitches start to show their face. If you don't want to enter in details, 
 then here's a resume: SSBB suffers from Mario Kart syndrome, e. g. lack of innovation.
  
  The main problem with the game is that it doesn't benefit from any major selling points of the 
 console: the game is not suited for the Wii remote swinging, which would be imprecise and tiring 
 in a fast-paced game that SSBB is. Therefore it's logical that the game doesn't feature any difference 
 from the Gamecube version in terms of control: the characters are controlled only by buttons and 
 analog sticks, no matter which one of the four configurations you chose. Of course there is an 
 option to turn of the Wiimote swinging for smash attacks which is quite a thoughtful addition for 
 those who want to try to play in non-conservative way, but in general, it's preferable to leave 
 this option turned off to avoid unnecessary wrist pains. 
  
  The gameplay also didn't change a lot as well. The only new addition is the Smash orb, which gives 
 a big devastating ability for the one who breaks it, therefore each time one of those things spawn 
 on the map, the game becomes much more intense as everyone rushes to get control over it. It's 
 actually fun, and is a welcome addition to the basic formula. 
  
  The game modes didn't change at all for the multiplayer, however for those who wish to spend some 
 lonely nights in front of SSBB, there is a whole new single player campaign in addition to Classic 
 Mode called the Subspatial Emissary, which introduces us to all the characters in the game, makes 
 us fight hordes of small enemies and a couple of bosses. This mode is quite lengthy and required 
 to unlock a lot of game characters. 
  
  The unlock system is unfortunately another letdown of the game: SSBB doesn't let you take control 
 of all the characters from the beginning, but rather unlock about half of them through Single player 
 modes, Challenges or simply a certain time spent playing the game. Personally I'm not really fond 
 of all the unlocking idea thing: it's an artificial way to increase the game lifespan, it ruins 
 the multiplayer mode in some way, since not everyone would want to go play through a 20-hour long 
 Emissary mode which is a requirement for most of the characters or stages to be unlocked. Moreover 
 the long awaited Sonic and Snake, so vividly advertised by Nintendo and featured on the back side 
 of the game box, are only available if you spend 10 hours playing the game, and finishing the Emissary 
 mode (that's for Sonic if i'm not mistaken) . Here again SSBB follows the Mario Kart franchise which 
 is a regrettable choice.
  
  Overall however, SSBB doesn't disappoint that much: the gameplay is smooth and chaotic, and while 
 as usual the game is made in the way that every newcomer has a good chance of beating a master 
 of the game straightaway, it doesn't bother that much during the battle. The characters are all 
 very balanced: some are stronger than others, some are faster, some benefit more from the Smash 
 orb etc., however it's hard to say that one character is better than others. The stages are all 
 unique and a separate "bravo" is necessary for all the new stages that really are a joy to discover. 
 Moreover the game features a map creating tool, so if you get bored of normal stages (and that 
 won't be until a very long time) you can always try to make some of your own.
  
  Last time I wasn't too keen on the Mario Kart game, that i called stalling the franchise and being 
 old-fashioned overall. SSBB can also be characterised in that way: apart from an impressive graphics 
 jump, a few gameplay tweaks and a bunch of new characters there is not much improvement over the 
 Gamecube version. However where Mario Kart became more unbalanced and unpredictable in a bad way, 
 SSBB gained in balance and feels more mature and accomplished as a whole. It's the best game to 
 come out on the console since it's release 1,5 year ago, and that without using the motion control 
 from the Wiimote - now that's sarcastic... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thefireflower99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Well I have been waiting for this game a long time. It got some bad news about the long release 
 dates being pushed back further. But now it is finally here. It was just about what I expected. 
 PURE GENIUS!
  
  Graphics: I know people can agree with me that this game has pretty much the best graphics on the 
 Wii (though Super Mario Galaxy's are very impressive)
  
  Sound: When I heard about the Smash Dojo, I would listen to the music they had all the time, every 
 day. It has so many songs with lots of memorable ones, so in other words, the best sound track 
 ever.
  
  Gameplay: The Smash Bros. series has had pretty much the same gameplay. This has few minor and 
 1 major difference. The Final Smash would be that major difference. You just break a floating smash 
 ball, then unleash TOTAL DESTRUCTION! Now for the others, some of the characters like Mario and 
 Link, got new and different moves. And overall it doesn't require as much skill as melee but that 
 means little kids can join the fun too. So, just like any other Smash Bros, Great Gameplay.
  
  Replay value: Believe me when I type "This game has literally hundreds and hundreds of unlockables." 
 You could collect stickers, trophies, and CDs and there are a lot of each. Trophies are just fun 
 to look at. Stickers help you fight in it's new adventure mode: The Subspace Emissary. And CDs 
 get you more songs. Plus, the game is extremely addictive, so if you invite a friend over things 
 get intense, you got lots of characters to unlock until you get 35, and you could play over Wi-Fi. 
 You'll likely play this game for years to come.
  
  Why not 10?: Most games has it's flaws but I only noticed a few in this one. The loading screens 
 are long. When you turn on the game, you get a 15 second loading screen. I even had a time where 
 it took about 35 seconds. I wouldn't say I'm surprised though since this game is jam packed with 
 features. I would have given the game a 9.8 if it wasn't for gamespot's scoring system.
  
  Other comments: I would but my fingers are tired from typing too much.... I'm taking a nap........... ZZZZZZ 
 ZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZ gEt The GAmE ZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazlofan098
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 14, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Like many other positive reviews about Super Smash Brothers Brawl, I will agree that this game 
 is unambiguously one of the greatest and most popular creations concocted for the Wii. Think about 
 it: Why not just take characters from classic Nintendo series such as Super Mario Bros., the Legend 
 of Zelda, Kirby, etc, put them into a cleverly-designed arena, and let them kick the you-know-what 
 out of each other in complete and utter chaos? The idea seems so simple, yet, with all the different 
 fighting techniques of the thirty-five characters it's not easy nor difficult - it's addicting 
 and just plain fun. A portion of the game that adds to this excitement is the Subspace Emissary. 
 This side-scrolling adventure features all of the characters teaming up to stop a very powerful 
 Tabuu from controlling the Brawl universe. To be honest, the SSE is an awesome experience that 
 truly makes a game like this so epic. The mind-blowing diversity of the character roster, the long 
 and very enjoyable adventure mode, and the overall concept of fighting in some of the most amazing 
 graphics all combine to make Super Smash Brothers Brawl an incredible game that can't be missed 
 by Wii owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerx287
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 14, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game the day of its release and I have enjoyed since the day I got it. This game 
 so far proves to be one of the best games I have ever played. With the variety of characters, and 
 the new and old stages, Super Smash Bros. Brawl is bound to impress you. The Adventure Mode in 
 SSBB was really fun to go through and play and just the right difficulty level. While WiFi isn't 
 the best, It is still fun to play against friends and people around the world. Some more things 
 that impressed me is the graphics and the smoothness of the characters when you are battling. These 
 have definitely improved since the previous games. In Adventure Mode, the story line and how things 
 all play out is extraordinary and fun for anyone to play. If you have not played Super Smash Bros. 
 Brawl, go out to a store and buy it and you will have the time of your life :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bnwchbammer
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  Well, I was a huge fan of this game from the start with the origional smash bros, and later melee. 
 With that said, I had huge expectations for this game. Me and my brother even went to the midnight 
 launch to be one of the first to get this game. Now, I like to beat a game before I review it, 
 and that's why it's taken so long. I had beatten it a while ago, but never felt like reviewing. 
 So now, heres my review.
  
  First of all, the character selection is big, and has a huge variety. None of the characters are 
 really recycled, and it can take some getting used to different characters. The unlock system is 
 pretty cool in this game. Stages and other extras use a completly different system that works. 
 The subspace emisary is a little long and boring. I hate to say it, but they could have done better. 
 The stages are actually well done, I liked pretty much all of them. Finally, the smash ball is 
 an interesting new addition that makes gameplay all the more interesting.
  
  Now, I'll talk a little about the actual gameplay. I recently played the origional smash bros, 
 and I was amazed at how strong the attacks are. They really toned them down, which they really 
 shouldn't have done. With that being said, the characters are all still well balanced, and every 
 fight seems like a fair fight. Some of the final smashes, like the starfox universe's are extremely 
 cheep, and you just can't help but scream gay!!! at the person using them. Heh, anyway, the final 
 smashes are a nice touch, and hey, nobody is forcing you to use them anyway.
  
  Online play is... ok. It's pretty easy to connect to matches, and, even though there is lag, its 
 bearable... sort of. Anyway, if you have friends with wi fi, and a copy of this game, its not too 
 bad.
  
  Here we go, lemme break it all down.
  
  Graphics: 9.5 some of the best the wii has seen.
  
  Gameplay: 8 Didn't bring back board the 
 platforms, and watered down break the targets.
  
  Sound: 9.5 Great soundtrack, and cool sound effects.
  
  Overall: If you have a wii, no point 
 in not getting this game, if you don't, well hey, get a wii, but not just for this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyd_93
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 14, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  Super Smash brothers brawl or SSBB for short is the third game in the super smash bros. line. This 
 was one of the main reasons why i bought the wii for, so i could play against my sister finally 
 (we did have melee on the GC but we got it a few months before the end of production so it would 
 have been a waste to buy a second controller since we only had 4 games) .
  
  Characters
  this time we see the return of our veterans for their third game mario, luigi, peach, donkey kong, 
 kirby, link, zelda, captain falcon, fox, jigglypuff, pikachu, ness, yoshi and samus. And we also 
 see characters making there sequel and first timers. SSBB also features for the first time characters 
 not from the nintendo franchise which are snake and sonic. each character has his/her own special 
 moves and also a signature smash ball move which deals a lot of damage and could bring KO's to 
 your opponents. it is a shame though that they couldnt also have special unlockable characters 
 that can only be obtained by having a game save like melee had with the pikmin trophy. 
  
  Items:
  we see the return of many of our favourite items and some new ones. the smash ball is 
 the hardest but one of the most powerful to obtain. it requires a few hits to get it and while 
 its constantly moving and also your opponents going for it, its quite hard to get. once you obtain 
 it you start to glow, and once activated, the character uses its signature move. in my opinion 
 some signature moves are stronger and cooler then other ones. another powerful item is the smart 
 bomb. if it is hit or once thrown, it explodes and damages anything within its radius. very good 
 weapon to place the final blow on your opponents. the final item id like to mention is the new 
 assistant trophies. they look like a normal trophy but in a dome. once used a random character 
 from any game will come onto field and help you out whether it be shadow the hedgehog, or a nintendog 
 or even mr resetti. each one has a unique ability and sometimes its good and other times it back 
 fires or really doesnt do anything.
  
  Classic mode and the subspace emmisary
  classic mode hasnt changed much, with master and crazy hand up to no good still, still great to 
 do for a boredom buster. the new subspace emissary otherwise known as adventure mode, replaces 
 the old choose a character and fight till the end to get a different trophy to classic mode, with 
 a story plot that involves all the characters except toon link, jigglypuff and wolf. its really 
 good in my opinion but the A. I in it isnt great and isnt bad more like average. in some cases i 
 had baddies jump off the edge after they KO'ed me. there are several bosses in the game, and with 
 different characters per segment, it sure makes players use all the characters and not just their 
 favourite all the time. the final 2 stages are hard and annoying. before fighting the last boss 
 tabuu, you must go through a maze which is all the previous stages mixed together and defeat all 
 of the dark versions of the characters and bosses. its quite a task to do and can be confusing. 
 Tabuu is probably more annoying then master hand and crazy hand combined. he teleports all over 
 the place and uses moves that can KO you easily if your not careful. once defeated, peace is restored 
 to the world and you can now go back and do the stages on a harder difficulty and try to unlock 
 wolf, jigglypuff and toon link.
  
  overall opinion
  i think this game is great, but there are some things i would like to see improved
  1. the A. I
 
  2. the stages are way too small, and once giga browser comes you have no choice but to try and 
 hang from the edge so he may not hit you
  3. the wifi definitely needs to be improved, only got on twice, the first time got kicked off after 
 waiting for about 10 minutes to find an opponent and the second time i got through, but it lagged 
 so badly i got kicked off
  4. the smash moves differ in power making an unfair advantage and also some arent as "big" like 
 for instance meta knight's smash move isnt as good looking as marios
  5. coin launcher game needs to be removed. ultimately annoying and you waste heaps. i liked the 
 trophy machine better
  6. and maybe add some game save only unlockables like rayman being unlockable from having a raving 
 rabbid save file etc
  
  
  
  overall this is a must buy for wii owners and im sure you'll love it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tigersclaw101
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 14, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  A amazingly fun game. You choose from over 21 characters to begin with to fight! You can either 
 just do 2 player Brawl matches with a friend or by yourself or go Solo in Classic Mode or Sub Space 
 Emmisary. The game can keep you entertained for quite a long time. The Sub Space Emmisary offers 
 you up to at least 5 or more hours just doing it quickly, but if you fully complete it to 100% 
 it could take 8+ hours. 
  
  After unlocking all 35 characters it gives even more possibility's to the already fun and addictive 
 game. 
  
  Graphics - The graphics are simply amazing and highly detailed. The detail of all the special ability's 
 and explosions go a long way to make the game incredibly good to look at.
  
  Sound - The sounds are all very awesome, Brings back the days of the Nintendo 64, Mario, and The 
 Legend Zelda.
  
  Gameplay - Who wouldn't like getting onto Mario and smashing the living daylights out of Donkey 
 Kong and sending him to Mars. 
  
  In conclusion it is incredibly simple yet very fun. It offers so much and can be played by anyone 
 of any age and still have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spinach_Puffs
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Its hard to say much about Brawl that hasnt already been said a thousand times, but I'll do my 
 best not to bore you...
  
  The main focus of the game - brawling itself - remains endless fun with friends and family. Even 
 my sisters have got into it, proving its appeal to "casual gamers". Assist Trophies are fantastic 
 and the Final Smashes are a truly amazing idea, heightening the tension without making it unfair.
 
  
  The Subspace Emissary mode is also a lot of fun, though I'd suggest trying to get this out of the 
 way as early as possible. Not because its bad, but it is the quickest way to unlock characters, 
 and a fantastic way of learning all the different movesets for each character. Contrary to many 
 reviewers, I didnt find it repetitive at all, and the cutscenes are truly gorgeous (one entitled 
 "The Invasion Begins" - or something similar - is truly breathtaking) . I suppose one downside is 
 that this mode enables you to unlock all the characters in the space of a few days' play (took 
 me 8 and a half hours on Normal) , but then again, when the focus is on having a good time Brawling, 
 a quick unlocking time may be welcome to increase the roster-size.
  
  And what a roster it is! 35 characters (more if you count Zelda/Sheik, Samus/Zero Suit and Pokemon 
 Trainer as more-than-one) make up a surprisingly well-balanced selection, with at least a few characters 
 that any Average Joe could recognise (anyone heard of a bloke called Mario??) , as well as inclusions 
 for the die-hards. Each character has its pro's and con's, and every character will have some fans, 
 however useless he may appear to others (here's looking at you, Jigglypuff!)
  
  The level creator is a welcome feature, as too is the incredible soundtrack and handy "My Music" 
 feature (because who wants to Brawl along to "Ashley's Theme" from WarioWare??)
  
  As for the online, my choice is a bit limited, but the fights I have had were fairly lag-free and 
 easy to set-up (though finding opponents at all has occasionally proved a problem - likely my connection) . 
 Having friend codes greatly improves this however, with some stadium events also being playable 
 with a friend online.
  It does seem a shame that the online isnt quite as polished as it could be, but I consider the 
 online as more of a bonus than a key part of the game, as I have plenty of human opponents at home. 
 
  
  Overall then, Brawl is a superb game that will stay in your Wii for months (and, perhaps in my 
 case, years) to come! Grab a friend or three, a handfull of controllers and get brawling!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodyDagger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl is the best game in the series, but not without a couple of problems holding 
 it back from being perfect. The gameplay is the best part of the game, especially the multiplayer 
 aspect of it. The controls are perfect allowing you to tweak and edit them however you please. 
 With a fun and lengthy single player mode, Subspace Emissary" you will get sucked into the addicting 
 gameplay and probably never put the game down. There are a plethora of characters and collectibles 
 to unlock which will probably take up a few months of your life. With both offline and online multiplayer 
 you will have some of the best moments of Brawl. You can create your own stages, take screenshots 
 and save brawl videos which you can then send to your friends over wi-fi. The graphics are pretty 
 good for the Wii but nothing to freak out about. The music is fantastic and overall audio is great.
 
  
  As for the problems I mentioned earlier these problems are rom the gameplay department. The game 
 can at times be frustrating with the difficulty ramping up a bit too quickly especially on the 
 harder modes. The other problem I had with the game was in the multiplayer, the whole friend code 
 system is a bit confusing at times and the lag whilst playing online, when it comes up can extremely 
 annoying.
  
  With those complaints aside, Brawl is overall an extremely well made game, not perfect but pretty 
 amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AweWiiGamer1
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is the third installment in the famed Super Smash Bros fighting franchise 
 developed by Sora and published by Nintendo for the Wii. Brawl continues it's well-known fighting 
 premise, similar to it's sucessor: Super Smash Bros Melee, which is, you fight as your favourite 
 Nintendo character, and knock off your oppentent off the stage, and you win the fight. However, 
 you have to use many different items from popular Nontendo brands, such as the Pokeball from Pokemon, 
 and the Invincibality star from Mario, in order to help you win the Brawl. Smash Balls also help 
 you unleash your characters biggest move in order to create the largest of damage to your oppentent.
 
  
  According to records, Super Smash Bros Brawl is the most highly anticipated game on the Wii ever 
 to be released. In Japan, where it was initally realeased, a line of thousands upon thousands of 
 Nintendo fans were waiting to recieve their copy of Brawl. Pre-order sales also were a-booming 
 up for Nintendo. It's clearly obvious then Brawl has a lot of expectations to live up to. I managed 
 to purchase my copy of the game on the day it came out in Europe which was June 27, 2008. Did Brawl 
 meet all the hype, or was it hype over nothing at all?
  
  Super Smash Bros Brawl is quite simply the perfect fighting game we've all been waiting for. Brawl 
 adds an incredibly well executed amount of nastolgia from popular Nintendo franchises, and Melee, 
 and adds a relentless amount of fan service to truly remind us of what made the Super Smash Bros 
 Series so groundbreaking.
  
  There is a story tagged in on Brawl, and that story is within Adventure Mode: The Subspace Emissary, 
 so I will talk about the story in that mode first. The adventure mode begins when Mario and Kirby 
 are fighting in the stadium from Melee. The fight gets off to a epic start, until then a large 
 spaceship from outside begins to invade with creatures called the Primids, and the Ancient Minister 
 releases a time bomb in hope of destroying the Nintendo universe. Meanwhile, Pitt from Kid Icarus 
 watches the scenario up above, and gets obtained by a spirtual guide in order of helping Mario 
 and Kirby save the Nintendo world. Along the way, they tag on with other Nintendo characters such 
 as Ike and Marth from the Fire Emblem franchise, in order to destroy the Ancient Minister, the 
 Primids, and everything else from destruction of the Niontendo world. The story in Subspace Emissary 
 mode may not be the most epic story in gaming history, but it has some simply flawless cutscenes 
 in order to make up for it. The cutscenes in the adventure mode from Super Smash Bros Brawl are 
 excuted with such cinematic flair, and sweet natured humor to make you truly engaged to move on 
 to the next world.
  
  The gameplay in Adventure Mode: Subspace Emissary is a surprisingly clever and nastolgic experience. 
 The gameplay is a side-scrolling adventure consisting that you reach the goal, tagging on friends 
 and defeating foes upon your way. The game's side scrolling hark backs to the old classic Nintendo 
 side scrolling games of yore, and contains every element of them such as reaching the goal.
  
  The fighting in Super Smash Bros Brawl is very much the same as it is in Melee, but it contains 
 all new gameplay modes that are a great addition to the Super Smash Bros franchise, such as online 
 play and tournament matches. For that reason, Brawl hasn't forgotten at all what made Melee such 
 a hit. Melee had something that pleased everybody, Brawl is no exception. With the addition of 
 third party heroes such as Sonic and Solid Snake, an extensive online play, and a great element 
 of nastolgia, this clearly shows Nintendo have not forgotten the wide variety of content which 
 also made melee such a hit.
  
  Overall, to conclude, Super Smash ros Brawl is a game that delievered it's promise, and does it 
 with some fine quality. Whilst it does not surpass Melee in terms of it's scope, for it's expectations, 
 Brawl is none other than flawless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigi420
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  Everyone knows that one of Nintendo's best series is its unique take to fighting games, Super Smash 
 Bros.
  
  When Melee came out, it was widely acclaimed. So, naturally, people had doubts about Brawl. When 
 Brawl's first trailer was unveiled at E3 2006, people were simply blown away. The graphics, the 
 music, the overall feel of it was just EPIC. And then there came the biggest shock at the end of 
 the trailer; Snake was to join the Brawl.
  
  Then the website was launched. People were so happy about it, the site brought almost monthly controversy 
 among fans (Pokemon Trainer, Smashville, Assist Trophy, among others) . 
  
  So, after a while fans were a little scared about how the game would turn out. It would either 
 be a major failure or a huge success.
  
  It was a huge success, in my opinion. The roster, I'll have to admit, was smaller than I thought. 
 But, when you realize that there are only two die-hard clones, I was amazed at how all the characters 
 had their own feel to them. The characters were even equally balanced, to my surprise. Melee was 
 like three characters owned all the others, but in Brawl, not the case.
  
  And the stages, it changed my mindset of stages in Melee. Back then, I thought the bigger the better. 
 But in Brawl, the smaller stages are actually funner. Stage Builder, although limited, is great. 
 You can be serious and make flat stages and everything, or go nuts and make your stage a death 
 hole.
  
  The music. THE MUSIC. There are 249 pieces in there. All for the taking.
  
  The gameplay, as usual, is fun. It might just possibly be funner than it ever was. I can't even 
 DESCRIBE how good it is.
  
  The online is, eh. If you play with a friend online , it'll be better, but you're better off in 
 person doing it.
  
  
  I'm not even going to get into Subspace, because Nintendo could honestly make that a game by itself 
 alone. Seriously, just longer the gameplay, and voila.
  
  
  This game is so good, it's near perfection. So if you have a Wii and don't own this, BUY IT NOW! 
 What you waiting for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thimitry
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2008 5:47 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is my favourite wii game so far. Even though I have not played any other 
 Smash Bros. games I can tell you that this one is most probably the best. 
  
  The graphics are fantastic, especially for a wii game. They are shown off with the screenshot feature, 
 allowing you to rotate a 3D view of the game (except in subspace or classic mode) . The cut scenes 
 are also amazing and one of the most enjoyable parts of the game.
  
  The sound is also great, it provides a greater sense of reality while playing and I have not found 
 any flaws in it. 
  
  The gameplay is also wonderful. Hardly ever do I get bored of a multiplayer brawl and when I do, 
 I found myself coming back in ten minutes. This game has great replay value, it's highly addictive 
 and will last you years!
  
  As you can see, I've only said good things about this game, because it all is!
  If you haven't 
 got this game, and you have got a wii, buy it. Because there wont be anything like this for a long 
 time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vbhat007
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 12, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  For example, some places in the subspace emissary were a drag. Also, on the online play, we should 
 have more time to play then just two minutes. Another thing is that there should have been more 
 Nintendo or third-party characters. For example, Waluigi would do wonders in the game with Wario. 
 Or, you could have like toad in the game or something. I'm not complaining over the one's we have 
 now, but more would do wonders with this game. Also we could do with a bit more music on SOME of 
 the stages (not all of them) but the sound is perfect. I like they way they let you adjust your 
 music on stages, instead of them equal all the time. Other then those details this game is great. 
 There are wonderful graphics, great music, good rules, great classic mode so this game does not 
 feel empty (and other modes) , good brawls, and an overall great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michoang_5
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 
 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 
 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 
 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 
 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 
 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 
 v10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 
 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 
 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 
 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 
 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 
 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 
 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 
 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jlee14
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Super smash bros brawl at first took a while to come out, with a lot of push back dates and kinda 
 (It did) make the Wii owners very unhappy such as myself. But all that waiting was well worth the 
 wait, this game is very raw, fun, entertaining for the whole family, party, sleepover or whatever 
 your having. With about 35 characters (including unlocks) that have different fighting styles, 
 and a lot of stages (including some melee stages) . On top of that better graphics, online play 
 and a story mode. Online play is very good because of the fact that you don't have to be right 
 next to your friend to play with him/her, battling other people online is also fun too. The graphics 
 improved since last smash bros and is better than most Wii games. So if u have a Wii and its collecting 
 dust, (because Nintendo don't have very much of a good game library =) ) Then pick up a copy of 
 brawl because this game is on the top 5 of the best Wii game up to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iRoibeard
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Best Game Ever Best Game Ever Best Game Ever Best Game Ever Best Game Ever Best Game Ever Best 
 Game Ever Best Game Ever Best Game Ever Best Game Ever Best Game Ever Best Game Ever Best Game 
 Ever Best Game Ever Best Game Ever Best Game Ever Best Game Ever Best Game Ever Best Game Ever 
 Best Game Ever Best Game Ever Best Game Ever Best Game Ever Best Game Ever Best Game Ever Best 
 Game Ever Best Game Ever Best Game Ever Best Game Ever Best Game Ever Best Game Ever Best Game 
 Ever Best Game Ever Best Game Ever Best Game Ever Best Game Ever Best Game Ever Best Game Ever 
 Best Game Ever Best Game Ever Best Game Ever Best Game Ever Best Game Ever Best Game Ever Best 
 Game Ever Best Game Ever Best Game Ever Best Game Ever Best Game Ever Best Game Ever Best Game 
 Ever Best Game Ever Best Game Ever Best Game Ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NALDOxCORE
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  As I waited impatiently for the release of Super Smash Bros. Brawl for months on end, my expectations 
 grew and grew. I was so hyped up for this game that it would be a miracle if it lived up to my 
 expectations. Surprisingly, picking up this game at midnight on the date of release and going 20 
 miles over the speed limit was well worth it.
  
  Brawl is just like all of the other games in this series. Players choose Nintendo icons from different 
 series, such as Donkey Kong, Mario, and Fox. The player controls one of these characters and uses 
 their unique movesets to crush opponents into oblivion. The developers of this game capture each 
 characters personality into their punches, kicks, and special moves.
  
  Brawl features many modes, such as the single player adventure mode "The Subspace Emissary". While 
 the single player mode of Brawl may be slightly lacking, they make up for it in multiplayer madness. 
 In group Brawl, up to four players can duke it out on over 30 custom stages. If more players want 
 to play, look to the Tournament Mode, where up to 32 players can take turns playing in order to 
 determine the top brawler. The multiplayer modes of Super Smash Bros. Brawl bring nonstop fun to 
 all players, young and old.
  
  Visually, Brawl is stunning. The 3D dimensions of each character are astonishing; each character 
 is pleasure for the eyes. The stages in this game are unique and extremely entertaining to fight 
 on. Words cannot describe how beautiful every aspect of this game is.
  
  Brawl stands out the most in the audio department. With over 220 songs from many different games, 
 Brawl is a treat to the ears and it is very rare to ever hear a song repeat.
  
  Over all, Brawl is a must play game for any one. You should be ashamed of yourself if you don't 
 own this game already.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360chad360
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  Super smash bros brawl is a 3-D fighting game that has made me look at all wii games in a different 
 way. This game has almost everything to keep you glued to the wii remote. It features many game 
 modes such a adventure, classic, brawl, tournament, practise, and training with more game modes 
 to unlock as you go. the game has many new players for anyone who has played the previous smash 
 bros games, and this game is welcoming to new players of the games. This game also has many new 
 stages you can brawl it out on and a creation mode that allows you to make and create your own 
 stages and use it to brawl on. this game also has event matches that allow you to complete certain 
 missions to unlock more events. the multiplayer in this game is top rated and can hold up to 4 
 players and has a mode that allows you to player with more then 4 by swiching up. this game also 
 has the the wii wi-fi connection that allows you to brawl online and show off you skills to players 
 around the world.
  
  10/10 from me anyday 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithy92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 6:50 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl / Wii / Fighting / 9.7
  
  
  - No, but it's definitely one of the best multiplayer games ever.
  
  The game itself is a fighting 
 game. You choose one of the many characters and then fight against up to three other contestants 
 on a stage. Knock someone of stage and you score a KO. 
  
  Brawl has a lot of single player content to offer and, of course the unlimited super ultra fun 
 multiplayer that lasts forever. The biggest mode is called the Sub-Space Emissary, it's a much 
 more developed adventure mode than the one in the predecessor, Melee. It works more like a platformer 
 than a fighting game, and it offers great, but repetetive fun, and a great plot with a couple of 
 nice twists. The many cut scenes have a real high quality.
  
  The stages are just great. There's a big bunch of them. This time they are more frantic and random 
 than ever before. And if you're still not happy you can create your own stages. The homemade stages 
 can be shared with friends all over the world. Other stuff that can be shared is pictures and movies 
 that you can snap and record. They can also be stored on SD cards.
  
  With a roster of 39 different smashers, finding a "main" takes a lot of time. All characters are 
 very well balanced as well. 
  
  And let's not forget all the new modes, trophies, stickers and items. One new item is the "Final 
 Smash". Smash it, and your character will do a special move with devastating power (mostly) .
  
  Unlocking everything takes time, A lot of time. You can enjoy unlocking stuff by yourself or 
 with another guy. Most of the important stuff (the characters and stages) can be unlocked by completing 
 The Sub-Space Emissary. But there will always be some minor trophies or stickers to get.
  
  The multiplayer features has increased, so now you don't have to complete everything by yourself, 
 you can co-operate in the event matches, the sub-space emissary and in the stadium.
  
  Except for all the massive amount of content added, not much have changed. sure, the graphics are 
 more of a joy now, it's more crisp and colorful. But other than that, not much of the actual gameplay 
 has changed, it could ruin the series. 
  
  The game also let's you unlock new songs which you can use in different stages. You can customize 
 how often they will appear. Other than that the sound effects have the same quality as in Melee. 
 The music are however heavily improved.
  
  The only thing that this game needed to achieve perfect quality is if the Wifi service was better. 
 It's hard to find a match with anyone. And when you do - the game suffers from integrity problems. 
 YOu can not see the names of any opponent and if it weren't for the human behaviour you might think 
 that you're fighting a computer. This is Nintendo's way of protecting people from pedophiles. And 
 if you go the other way around, and play with friends you have to switch the tedious friend codes 
 which everyone in the world hates.
  
  Brawl is very user-friendly, if you play against a computer - handicap and difficulty can easily 
 be changed. However I do not like that they removed some hard-core techniques like "wave-dashing" 
 and "L-cancelling".
  
  This is a game that any Wii-owner can not possibly miss. Especially if you never played Melee (Old 
 veterans have already squeezed a lot of juice out of the series) .
  
  
  Real Score: 9.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NintendoCC123
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  SSB is a phenomenon that will bring you back to the old days. You will be reminded of all Nintendos 
 greatest masterpieces. Its the cherry on the top of the great sundae called Nintendo. This to me 
 is more than a game. Its a reminder of how great games can really be. Multiplayer or single you 
 will have a great time. No game can top it. With hundreds of challenges and dozens of characters 
 this game will only get old when the world ends. Some might think this is just a bunch of sissy 
 Nintendo characters "brawling it out". But when you play this game you will find yourself laughing 
 at how much the characters remind you of their old games. You'll be saying, "Oh yeah i remember 
 that!", or "Haha i cant believe how much memories I have of these games!" No other game can give 
 you the memories and morals that the Nintendo games have and you will realize it when you play 
 this masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shimazuxi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so I am not going to spam "omg omg brawl is ftw" about a hundred times, but I will say upon 
 buying it, I played it non-stop. It was something... I still can't put down most times, because 
 it is really so addictive. Still, none the less, there are a few flaws.
  The bad things: Stage builder only has 3 backgrounds.. as someone mentioned in a review, that blows 
 a lot. Two people at your house can not play online w/ randoms, that really blows because me and 
 my friend wanted to do that for hours, and we couldn't. Target difficulty is WAY to easy compared 
 to melee, as well.
  The good things: % damage fighting is the best fighting game ever. They expanded the modes and 
 trophies, added stickers and probably -the best- storyline mode ever! New characters, many modes 
 and colors, and the stage builder was wonderful, with 300 songs! 
  Graphics 10/10
  Sounds 10/10
  Gameplay 10/10
  Those three tiers of game-scores would get the 10/10, but internet 
 problems (the friend thing) and lack of stage backgrounds lowered it slightly to a 9.5, still a 
 great game none the less.
  Debatable issues-
  I feel like Sonic & Snake didn't deserve to be in this, however... Sonic is awesome and Snake is 
 cool so w/e
  Some of the cruel melee rules should have been fixed, but nothing to bad to alter the score lower
 
  
  All in all, I'd say this is worth every penny
  Go get it and have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neildneil
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  if you own a Wii then you must get this game. if you do not own a wii sell everything you own except 
 your tv to get one just for this masterclass.
  
  the multiplayer is 2nd to none following in the footsteps of melee and the original, and the single 
 multiplayer, although at some points a bit tedious is completely brilliant and addictive.
  
  the choice of characters is enormous and, although his inclusion was queried, snake fits in 
 perfectly with the rest of the various characters with style.
  
  the smash ball is a fantastic inclusion and impossible to fault, because, if you don't like it, 
 then you can turn it off. the music is a wonderful mix of original melodies, untouched tunes from 
 previous games, and redone masterpieces.
  
  Online is fun and competitve but there are no levels or ratings like in mario kart and it can run 
 slightly slowly. the ratings thing is an issue because the game could automatically set you up 
 with a player of similiar ability instead of getting completely destroyed once and then winning 
 50-0 next match.
  
  overall, i believe that if you do not buy this game then you have no soul it is one of the greatest 
 games of all time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tireyo643
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is a revolutionary fighting game that can really be a stress reliever if 
 you are mad at someone but you don't really want to hurt them! Every character and every course 
 is expertly designed for a real fight! The music in the game can please any fan and hardcore gamer 
 who grew up with Nintendo's most iconic games! The Subspace Emissary adds the necessary adventure 
 that the series needed from the start. The multi-player can help anyone get the hands up on what 
 could be expected on online fights, however that is not what multi-player is about; it's about 
 playing with your friends and/or foes on one Wii!! I give Super Smash Bros. Brawl a 9.5 because 
 there are a few things missing. It really stinks that you can't really fight on the courses that 
 you make online. However, you can send your custom made courses to your friends to enjoy. They 
 really could have had more backgrounds to choose from when you create a stage! Despite of the minor 
 setbacks of the game, Super Smash Bros. Brawl was worth the wait and is one of the best fighting 
 games made. Super Smash Bros. Brawl is definitely worth playing. So what do you say? Are you in 
 for the brawl? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hagge15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 3:34 am PT
Review:  Before anyone says: YOU ARE WRONG SSBB ROCKS!!! Will I just say that I think so too. But Nintendo 
 have made letdowns on the things that should turn brawl into the best game ever.
  
  The thing I don't like the most was the HUGE waiting time, especially for us in Europe. 4 months 
 after Japan, I mean, come on. Sure the game evolved a little. All glitches removed and CPUs are 
 more intelligent at custom stages. But still it can't take 4 mounts to do that!!
  
  The secondary I am most disappointed in is the difficulty. Its not that it is too hard, but compared 
 too melee is the hardest difficulty in brawl just normal in SSBM. Its too damn easy. I played with 
 a all-new character and controller. And after a week I defeated a level 9!
  
  My 2 last disappointments was Advanture mode: the subspace emissary, and the stage builder. Of 
 course the Advanture mode is better in brawl, and a little more fun. But its not the same, its 
 not smash bros! The bosses are mega-fun but the levels itself are very boring. The opponent's doesn't 
 fly like in smashbros, they just stand there and lose some hp. It sucks. And the stories cinematic 
 are great and the graphics fantastic but the story is a little weird...
  
  And it's the stage builder. A stage builder is actually my favourite part too! But its too simple! 
 You cant do anything cool and its very limited. 300 songs too choose from is great, but 3 backgrounds?! 
 It does not work together
  
  Now to the good stuff! The wifi are so cool. I always wanted that in smashbros however it takes 
 time to find an opponent worldwide, and it lags way to much when someone get a smash ball.
  
  The graphics are the coolest ever on wii (may not as beautiful as galaxy) . For the first time 
 ever you can actually SEE that Mario's pants aren't made of blue paper, its made of jeans
  And final destination WOW! Look at the background its splendid, fantastic and almost as (with 
 HD cable) almost as good as ps3 graphics in FDs background!
  
  The new final smash are also same as fun to use as it is too flee from. It was a great add by Nintendo. 
 However some final smashes are too powerful and some too weak witch make it unbalanced.
  
  The last thing I want to say is that I love brawl in all its glory. But it was disappointing, Nintendo 
 said too much great stuff
  
  
  
  
  Sound: 10/10
  You can choose over 300 songs from all games of Nintendo, could it be better?
  
  Graphics: 
 10/10
  For the first time Mario's pants are made of jeans. Sometimes the graphics are almost like it was 
 from the Xbox 360.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Smashbros has never been better, but it loses one point because it was too easy this time, sorry 
 Nintendo.
  
  Controls: 10/10
  The controls are amazing. You can choose 1 of 4 different controllers and set your own button controls!
 
  
  What I think: 18/20
  The game is overall very good, but Nintendo failed too live up to its own words of a game that 
 was godlike.
  
  
  Final score: 9.5 / 10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jatly0
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Brothers Brawl is by far the best 3D Fighting game. This game will be the best fighting 
 game for quite some time. The single player mode can take up to hours to complete! This aspect 
 of the game is what makes SSBB a great solo-player game. Another great part of this game is the 
 fast paced action. In this game you may end of spending most of your battles in the air rather 
 than on the ground if you are not paying attention. These matches are rarely boring. The offline 
 AI can also be a pain in the behind. They will always be a challenge for you even if you are the 
 greatest fighter. The on-line play is also what makes this game great. On-line play is usually 
 lag free and there is always somebody out there ready to play. The on-line matches can be tough 
 at times, but as you play more you will be able to beat anybody that you come across.
  If you are wondering what to spend your birthday money on, this game is the greatest fighting Wii 
 game you can currently buy! Nice job Nintendo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scar-hawk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. I love brawling with my friends via Wi-fi connect. I highly reccommend this 
 game. Plus newcomers such as Snake and Pit make the game all the more fun. Theres also a challenge 
 board that contains challenges for you to beat. Once you complete the challenge you will recieve 
 a trophy, music, a stage, or a hammer to break a challenge block so you dont have to do it :P Boss 
 Battles and Home run contest are also included in this game. You can even play the home run contest 
 against a friend via Wi-fi connect. The Training mode is also a great way to hone your skills against 
 a enemy. You may even choose to make them still so you can unleash your awesome moves and take 
 a snapshot of them and send them to your friend via Wi-fi connect. New stages, plus the stages 
 from the previous game in the series, Super Smash bros melee make this a great buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naruto_88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  I think the adventure mode is a drastic improvement on its predecessor. Fun and challenging, a 
 few hours will be spent by even the most experienced smash fans (provided they aren't noobs and 
 complete it on easy) . 
  With 5 difficulty settings, you are bound to find one that is just right (or a slight challenge) 
 to you. 
  The online mode is superb if you want to play with other people. Classic mode is pretty much the 
 same, but more unpredictable. One time you might beat it on hard without losing one life, the next 
 time round you can be smoked after the third battle. 
  The combat is pretty much the same as Melee except, as mentioned before, characters are more well-rounded. 
 With such a wide cast to choose from, you will definitely become proficient with at least a few 
 characters.
  The fact that you get hints as to how to get more trophies, stages, tracks, etc is awesome, as 
 you probably will not need an FAQ or other feature. It is a shame however, that 'Break the Targets' 
 is now the same for all characters and has items. Speaking of items, maybe this set of items is 
 not as good as those in Melee, but they still make the battle fun. Especially when it comes to 
 the smash ball. It may change the tide of the battle, but the battle is not over once someone gets 
 it.
  It is a shame that wiimote interaction wasn't included, but with a game like smash it is very difficult 
 to incorporate due to the relatively fast pace of the battles. Gamecube control support is another 
 big plus.
  All these being considered, this game is a must-have for Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naju890_963
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  i really cant believe this after 2 attemps the make this game perfect nintedo's dream the best 
 game on the nindendo wii. its the golden age for nintendo title lovers. lets move to the good and 
 the bad things.
  
  Good: Theres no lag in the multiplayer. You can share cool replays to your friends around the net. 
 An enourmuous number of nintendo characters. Many ways to customize your favourite one on one battles. 
 Long character stories and they are very cool.
  
  Bad: Custom levels that users built could not be played in online mode.
  
  The gameplay changed 
 but its stayed in the 2d and 3d kinda gameplay. And a surprise that solid snake from mgs and sonic 
 the henghoh rare in this game. In other smash bros only nintendo characters were aloowed in the 
 game.
  
  Gameplay: its the best gameplay you will play. 10.0
  
  Story: its pretty lenghty so you willl enjoy it very much. 9.5
  
  Online-mode: pretty good 
 but a missing the feature that is not allowing the game to be perfect.
  
  Overall: Its the best game nintendo ever launched. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LK9988
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  first i'll go over the only 3 bad things in this game...
  1. some of the characters from melee aren't there like pichu (might of died from too much fights)
 
  2. custom stages can't be used online.
  3. more backgrounds could of been put in the stage creator.
  
  but there are thousands... no... 
 millions of good things in this game which completley cover these up.
  
  There are many interesting new characters like meta knight, pit and even sonic and snake!!!!!!!!!
 
  
  about 90% of the stages in the game have many hazards in and are even interactable and some of 
 the stages of melee are in too!
  
  The graphics are absolutley amazing and are maybe even the best graphics on the wii so far.
  
 
  The sound makes this game good too because it has many awesome songs in and also has many originals 
 and remixes of songs from other games too!
  
  The subspace emissary is the adventure mode on the game and it has awesome cutscenes in and has 
 a proper storyline (which you can save too!)
  
  and the list goes on...
  
  overall: with a stage creator, online play, a proper story mode and much more... if you have a 
 wii... GET THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DesertClawX2X
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  After a painfully long and highly anticipated wait, the third chapter in Nintendo's Super Smash 
 Bros. series is upon us. Does it live up to the hype?
  
  Sadly... no. Then again, I doubt that any game could ever live up to the lofty expectations placed 
 upon it. Regardless, Brawl is - dare I say it - the best experience you'll find on the Wii not 
 named Super Mario Galaxy. And that, isn't something to be taken lightly.
  
  Gameplay, like the last two games, differs from your "traditional" fighter. No health bars. Freedom 
 of movement. Items. A simple one-direction, one-button system for executing attacks. Building up 
 your opponent's damage to certain extent and then launching them far enough off of the stage to 
 obtain the game's equivalent of a ring out. The ability to recover in midair in an attempt to prevent 
 a ring out. These elements set Brawl (as well as the entire series) apart from about 90% of the 
 fighting genre. It might seem like it's oversimplified, but it works surprisingly well. 
  
  My only qualm is the selection of the items. While many of the returning items are balanced, many 
 of the newer items (such as Smash Balls, which allow you to perform usually fatal character-specific 
 supers, or Assist Trophies, which summon various lesser-known characters to aid you in battle for 
 a short period of time) are overpowered and can turn the tides of an otherwise even match, despite 
 the fact that most items have a small chance of backfiring. Although items help to liven up the 
 experience, it doesn't hurt to set them to "low" or "none" every once in awhile.
  
  Brawl also offers four different control schemes. While vets will probably feel the most at home 
 with the good 'ol GameCube controller, the other three (Classic Controller, Wiimote, and Wiimote 
 and Nunchuk combo) work surprisingly well and the controls are as tight as ever.
  
  Overall, Brawl's gameplay (despite a slight speed reduction) is a refinement of what made the series 
 (especially Melee) so great.
  
  The single player modes have expanded in content from Melee, but it's not as quite as big a jump 
 from the original to Melee. The biggest addition is The Subspace Emissary. SSE is pretty much a 
 side-scrolling, beat 'em up that occurs in the Smash universe, chronicling almost all of the game's 
 playable cast (more on that later) as they attempt to quell the threat of the Subspace Army (as 
 well as many classic Nintendo villains) . Unfortunately, that style of gameplay doesn't exactly 
 go hand-in-hand with the series' unique spin on the genre; the experience holds up, but it's not 
 exactly every gamer's slice of apple pie. On the plus side, you can always hook up with a buddy; 
 playing with others does make it a bit more satisfying.
  
  Another complaint is the overall story itself. Since there's no narrative (in either written or 
 verbal forms) , the story usually presents itself as a random crossover of (mostly) well-known characters 
 teaming up to fight a great evil. It's not bad, especially when you factor in the various nods 
 to each franchise's history, in-game phenomena/jokes, and character interactions, as well as the 
 various comedic hi-jinks that occur due to it (i. e. the scene where Peach interrupts a fight between 
 Fox and Sheik for tea time is comedic gold) . It's just..... lacking... It's hard to make a concrete 
 story when it focuses on 35 separate characters with almost the same amount of detail at different 
 points in a large and intertwining plot. While I agree with the decision to keep the characters 
 silent (for the most part) , it's a general consensus that SSE's story is quite confusing. Especially 
 since the developers had to leave out various key points that would have undoubtedly made the story 
 more understandable. Info given by Masahiro Sakurai (the game's director and voice of King Dedede) 
 clears up some questions, but the end result is that SSE makes the extremely simple plots of the 
 original and Melee many times more confusing.
  
  All in all, SSE comes off as a decent attempt to flesh out the games' story and make a single player 
 experience that's as respectable as its multiplayer. It's still better than Melee's generic and 
 uninspired Adventure Mode, so you really can't go wrong.
  
  Other than that, you have the staple single player modes from Melee. Classic Mode returns, and 
 the experience is a mix of the original's 1P Game and Melee's Classic Mode. You'll face-off against 
 the same characters of a certain series on certain stages (i. e. the 1st stage always pits you against 
 characters from Zelda, while the 7th stage has you battling either the cast of Star Fox or F-Zero) , 
 but the special occurrences for each battle (with the exception of the final two stages) is much 
 more randomized. Event Mode returns, along with a set of Co-op Events. And if it's any consolation 
 for the highly fluctuating difficulty of Melee's events, Brawl allows you to set the difficulty 
 for each individual event.
  
  Then, there's the refurbished All-Star Mode. Unlike Melee, this time you fight the entire playable 
 cast in order of seniority, starting with the Game & Watch series and ending with Pikmin. Granted, 
 it's still difficult, but it's more predictable because you'll know who to expect.
  
  Stadium Mode also returns, with a few cosmetic changes. The newest addition is Boss Battle Mode, 
 where you take on all 10 of Brawl's bosses in a manner akin to All-Star Mode. And finally, there's 
 Training, where you can hone your skills with your favorite characters.
  
  Yet again, the heart of SSBB lies in its multiplayer experience. Special Brawl has received an 
 overhaul; you are now able to pick from several different options for a single match. Super Sudden 
 Death Mini Metal Curry Angled Brawl anyone? Other than that, multiplayer is same as it ever was. 
 Then again, does it ever need to change?
  
  And to put the icing on the cake... there's online multiplayer. While "the Nintendo way" (read "friend 
 codes and a lack of voice chat") limits the experience, Brawl's online capabilities are still robust. 
 Whether it's old fashioned Brawling or placing bets on the matches of other competitors, you'll 
 find a good amount of things to do during your online excursions in Brawl. On another positive 
 note, the environment is (mostly) lag-free. I know that Sakurai is trying to lessen the competitive 
 scene from Melee, but Brawl could have benefitted from a leaderboard, or at least a record of one's 
 wins and losses. Mario Strikers Charged has one, so why not here?
  
  With 35 playable characters and 41 stages, Brawl is a step up from Melee. In the case of the characters, 
 I must say that the decision to include Solid Snake and Sonic the Hedgehog (the first third-party 
 characters in the series) is a plus. Their own unique styles feel right at home with the Brawl 
 cast. Other newcomers such as Pit, Meta Knight, R. O. B. (this incarnation's winner of the "whoa, 
 I didn't see that one coming" award) , and Pokemon Trainer have their own merits for their dynamic 
 play styles. While the "clone" problem from Melee still exists, it's not nearly as big a problem 
 as before, due to the general balancing and revisions of all the characters, new and old. I must 
 also commend the stage designers. Some of Brawl's stages are genius. A notable example would be 
 Hanenbow, the stage based off of the musical Nintendo DS game Electroplankton. I could attempt 
 to describe it, but some things are better left unsaid.
  
  In terms of content, Brawl offers a lot. And that is a big understatement. The game's collectibles 
 are in the form of trophies and stickers showcasing over two decades of Nintendo, Sega, and Konami 
 history. The game also offers "Masterpieces". While this is a very limited selection of classic 
 (Nintendo) games and little more than a preview of the Virtual Console, it is good to look back 
 on humble beginnings. Brawl also includes a Stage Builder feature, allowing players to create their 
 own stages. While you're really only limited by your imagination (and the space requirements for 
 certain parts) , it'd maybe help if Nintendo gave us some downloadable parts and backdrops. There's 
 only so much you can do with so little, y'know?
  
  The graphics are a definite step up from Melee. Brawl is one of the finer looking games on the 
 Wii. Even at a short glance, you can definitely tell that the characters and locales have been 
 given a graphical upgrade. Just be aware that not everything in Brawl carries the same amount of 
 detail.
  
  I could endlessly rave about how great (for the most part) Brawl's musical direction is. I will, 
 however, say this: Brawl has one of the best soundtracks ever to be produced for a video game. 
 Ever.
  
  For one, the game's music is composed by 37 esteemed musicians. Many of them have worked on other 
 projects that were lauded for the musical score alone. In addition, the musicians had over two 
 decades of Nintendo goodness, as well as the Sonic and Metal Gear series, to pick music from. Do 
 you know how much pure awesomeness (in terms of music alone) existed during that time?!
  
  Gamer or not, one of the 250+ songs should jog your memory. That's just how great and diverse the 
 music is. Ranging from familiar to bizarre, upbeat and peppy to epic and fierce, new to nostalgic, 
 or anything inbetween, the music is sure to appeal to gamers of all ages.
  
  The voice acting (overall) is good. Of course, there are quite a few missteps with some of the 
 English actors, but it shouldn't be too much of a problem.
  
  It's funny. Back when the Wii was still code-named the Revolution, Brawl was tentatively titled 
 "Super Smash Bros. Revolution". Brawl is more of an evolution than a revolution. But in no way 
 is that a detracting factor. Brawl has refined everything that made Melee great. Brawl is - in 
 more ways than one - the Wii's killer app, and is probably the one game you'll be playing for the 
 following months, if not years. It might have taken (much) longer than we hoped to arrive, but 
 Brawl does not disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NiCoLaOs_BR
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  What to say about Brawl? I think this is the best Wii game I've ever played. The Graphics are marvelous, 
 the levels are incredibly funny and it is easy to play no matter what kind of controller you use. 
 The masterpieces and chronicles ideas were great and a nice way to remember the great games. The 
 intruducion of Sonic, Olimar, Meta Knight and, of course, Solid Snake at the game is just a little 
 part of what the game proposes to you when you turn your Wii on. You can berely see the time rolling 
 while you are trowing Kirby out of the fase or when you are in the classic mode. Another good point 
 of the game is the "Subspace Emissary", the first real adventure mode in the SSB history, as Classic 
 is just a 13 battles in roll way of playing. The SSE mode is difficult but really nice to play (as 
 the whole game) and a way to gain new characters as Snake, Sonic, Marth, Toon Link and etc. I don't 
 have to say that Brawl is the ultimate fight game, and I also don't have to say that the final 
 smashes are simply G-R-E-A-T!!!!! Nothing else to say!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiiGamer101
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  Wow, this is the 3rd installment of the Hall. Labratory. Inc.'s masterpiece Super Smash Bros Brawl!!!! 
 This 3rd series installment put it on the map the very firsdt time they issued the tralier back 
 in the 2006 E3 expo, ever since then die hard Nintendo fans have waiting ever since they saw this 
 God giving masterpiece. But the waits over its here and its heart stopping online feature of the 
 game. You can now play with friends online or foes as well. And also send pics, replays, and others 
 custom maps. But people who subscribes for Nintendo service gets Nintedo's custom stages, replays, 
 and pics. Thats pretty neat the Nintendo is getting on the Smash Bros action. And also this game 
 includes a smashing story mode called subspace emissary mode. AND ALSO MORE NINTENDO CHARACTERS 
 THEN EVER. AND ALSO THE GREATEST TWO THIRD PARTY CHARACTERS OF ALL TIME, Sonic The Hedgehog and 
 Solid Snake. With there stages Shadow Moses (Snake) and Green Hill Zone (Sonic) . Im telling u this 
 is the sequel that all gamers of the series have been waiting for to have and to enjoy with otheres. 
 I love it i give it a 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supaflygamer525
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  when i first heard about it i could not wait for the release. then it was delayed so many times. 
 i couldnt take it . i thought it better be worth it and it, totally was. this game has all the 
 qualities you demand in a game . its very fun. a great multiplayer experience just the right difficulty 
 and solid story. the very best game for wii out there. I play with my brother my friends my cousins 
 all the time my favorite characters are Pokemon Trainer Ike, and Lucario. My brother likes Meta 
 Knight, Toon Link, and Mario .a highly addictve game that everyone can enjoy. when i first got 
 icouldnt stop playing it , it is a must have game that is argueably the best game out there. once 
 i got super mash bros brawl. i played smash bros melee on last time to see how much of a good sequel 
 it was. THE GAME IS **** THE  
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterhalo43
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  This is my first smash brothers game, and I have to say, its pretty god damn impresive. The number 
 of different number of stages is great, the number of characters is a lot and there is only one 
 person i must question, why do they put in jigglypuff. SHE SUCKS. The only problem is that the solo 
 mode is slow and not that fun. People aren't really online. And when you've played for like a month, it 
 gets old and its time to move on to another game like No More Heros. The game is just incredible 
 when u play with friends in human flesh or online. If you are going to find a kick-nintendo-ass 
 game, this is the one to get for something to get you ready for Soul Caliber IV to come out in July. 
 I am already saving money for it. If you just happen to get a crapy wii game, trade it in for this 
 one. I haven't played the other ones, but i think i don't have to to predict this is the best one 
 in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TwistedMetalFan
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Since 1999 the Super Smash Bros. series has been the most original and fun fighters out on the 
 market. That still remains true today, Super Smash Bros. Brawl is one of the best games that has 
 been released this year, not to mention one of the best games to be released in years. There is 
 a large range of things to do in this game it should keep you busy for a long time. For the few 
 who don't know what the Super Smash Bros. series is, I'll explain. Super Smash bros. takes characters 
 from around the Nintendo universe, and puts them in a fight to the finish in the different worlds 
 they come from. The point of the game is to knock your opponents off the side of the screen, that 
 will get you points, every time you get knocked off you loss a point. The percentage at the bottom 
 of the screen is how much of chance you will have of being knocked out when a opponent hits you. 
 This Super Smash Bros. series always had a good range of characters, this one has a very large 
 roster. Going from 12 in the original, to 26 in Melee, to now a roster of 35 characters, 14 of 
 these have to be unlocked. This time around the roster had a lot of surprises for new characters, 
 from Pit, Ike, R. O. B., Pokmon Trainer, and Wolf. The roster now goes beyond the Nintendo universe. 
 Sonic the Hedgehog, and Solid Snake are now playable characters. These characters definitely stand 
 out at first, but after playing them , you'll see they fit right in. You'll more than likely find 
 that at least one of these will become one of your favorite characters. The adventure mode has 
 been improved, and now goes under the name of The Subspace Emissary. This adventure mode if surprisingly 
 long, your fist time though your sure to spend around 15 to 20 hours playing though this mode. 
 Subspace Emissary is a story where a wide range of the characters all have some sort of problem, 
 that all are linked in some way, you eventually all team up to take down one foe. Another new feature 
 is the ability to create your own level, which is surprisingly very customizable, as you unlock 
 more sets of items, its a mode you'll most likely end up enjoying a lot. But, none of this compares 
 to the amount of time you'll probably end up playing the multiplayer, Super Smash Bros. Brawl still 
 holds one of the most engaging multiplayer experiences you'll ever have. Now the battle goes online, 
 you'll probably end up having even more fast paced fights than ever. You'll definitely want to 
 find some friends online, because the friend online mode has more ways to fight than with strangers, 
 the looser of a friend online Brawl can change the rules of the Brawl. This game also has hundreds 
 of things to unlock, which mainly consist of trophies and songs. And the songs in this game add 
 up to, in my opinion one of the best soundtracks in any video game ever. With all of this, you'll 
 likely come back to this game for years to come, you'll lose yourself in how much fun you will 
 have playing this game. If you have a Wii, you need Super Smash Bros. Brawl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jin_Jonas
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 7, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  First time I played Super Smash Bros. was like a year ago on an N64 Emulator, I wanted to know 
 what all the fuss was about with this Smash Brother game that I never actually played... I found 
 out that it was quite addictive but I didn't really play it that much since the first SSB only 
 had a limited characters, stages and items... Anyways, I got Super Smash Brothers Brawl this month 
 and I love it, it just sucks you in,..
  
  There are so many things to do and the multiplayer is great..
  
  Lastly I love fighting games 
 and this is indeed one with it's own unique charm..
  
  If you like Nintendo game characters and/or Snake and Sonic and you like games full of action, 
 stuff to do, and easy to pick up and getting started you should waste no more time but go pick 
 this game up right now :)
  
  Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RachetandClank
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  ::::Good::::
  - Biggest roster of characters ever seen
  - Many new stages and items to at your disposal
  - Gameplay is still what we loved from the previous 
 instalments
  - Different controler options is good
  - One of the best collected soundtracks in any game
  
  ::::Bad::::
  - Could do with less 
 "clone" characters, and more unique characters
  - Online could be better
  - Can't bring custom stages online
  - Adventure mode is annoying and fustrating
  
  Super 
 smash bros for the N64 was a revolutionary title. It was so orignal, 
  and no one ever believed that having nintento characters cross worlds to duke it out would be so 
 much fun.
  
  Brawl brings this excitment back, but adds so many for features. It has the biggest roster of characters 
 ever seen in a super smash bros game, ranging from the ever famous Mario to the all new 3-in-1 
 pokemon trainer.
  With law breaking characters sonic and snake included in the list, the new roster holds many possiblities. 
 But, it would have been nice to see less "clone" characters and more unique nintento character 
 or more non-nintento characters to join sonic and snake (megaman anyone????) .
  
  There are many new unique stages in the game, like Warioware Inc., were at sertain points of the 
 match every character must play a random mini game, and pictochat, the chat pad from nintento DS, 
 were random pictures are drawn and effect the battle field. Many new items are avalable for use 
 like the assist trophies, witch work like pokeballs but using nintendo characters. There is also 
 the smash ball, were if a fighter can get there hands on this item, will release a devestating 
 attack unique to the character.
  
  Gameplay is still the same that we know and love, with time battles and stock matches still avaliable. 
 Being able to play with 4 different types of controllers is very good for every kind of gamer (wiimote, wiimote 
 and numchuck, wii classic controller, or gamecube contoler) . The sound track of the game is the 
 best ever. It includes so many tracks from every nintento game, and it was nice to see them all 
 together in one game. Online is pretty fun, although it could be better.
  
  This game have so many modes and features to explore and try out. From events, to classic mode, 
 there are too many to name. There are hundreds of trophies and stickers to collects, and many challanges 
 to complete. The new stage builder is cool, but not being able to take your custom stages online 
 is a bummer. The new attempt at an adventure mode, the "supspace emisary" is a great way to unlock 
 characters fast, but is extremly annoying, and very fustrating. Hopping on platforms is hard and 
 there are many hidden tricks that make you die alot.
  
  Overall, the game is one of the best i've played. If you have a wii, you should get this game.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoasterFanatic
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl is fantastic and fantasmic in every way. From the Subspace Emissary to regular 
 Brawl everything is masterpiece worthy. There is so much to do from customizing your battle to 
 fit your very needs or customizing your stages with music of your choice from every famous Nintendo 
 game. Earn stickers and trophies as your battles progress. Defeat major enemies in the Subspace 
 Emissary and fight as your favorite Nintendo-all star. Brawl online with Nintendo Wi-fi along with 
 your friends of random people across the globe. Share photos and pictures from your favorite battles 
 and create your own stages. Record your battles and watch them again. Unlock stages and new characters 
 from past Nintendo titles to make it an all out Brawl! Super Smash Bros Brawl deserves a 10/10 
 from me and a must buy, not rent but BUY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Catpeniworld
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  Awesome! This game is extraodinary! Pretty good graphics are seen in this game! The biggst character 
 list that i've ever seen, incredivle, for a game! SmashBros is one of the oldest, but best series 
 of games. A continuation to melee! I guess all the wait wasn't for nothing! It was delayed twice! Poor 
 U. K, they had to wait alot more than us. But the controls are a little hard, if you played melee 
 use the gamecube remote! But you get tired after playing it for a while...
  
  The character list is a huge 35 character smackdown! It's hard to choose your favorite! When does 
 number 4 come out? The wii remote, the wii remote and the numchuck, the gamecube remote, and uh, 
 can't remember!
  
  Try it with your friends, (Great with friends coming over, up to four) , yes. Also amazing internet 
 connection capabilities! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Pros
  
  
  * A good variety of characters. Both well known faces and obscure, all of which are fun to play.
 
  * Numerous levels and a decently robust level creator to boot.
  * Tonnes of unlockables.
  * Attractive graphics.
  * Excellent soundtrack.
  
  
  Cons
  
  * Short story mode.
 
  * Perhaps TOO much to unlock?
  
  Super Smash Brothers Brawl finally came out at the end of the last month down under and I've had 
 plenty of time with it. Theres not a whole lot I can say that you haven't likely read.
  
  It's a fighter that takes place on a 2D plane where the objective is to knock the other characters 
 off screen with the aid of easy to learn special attacks, tonnes of unique items and the environments 
 themselves
  
  Super Smash Bros takes a whole host of Nintendo characters and even a couple of third party faces 
 this time around and sets them up to battle. It's definitely as fun as it sounds.
  
  First thing I'll address is the controls.
  
  Theres a few control schemes.
  Classic controller.
 
  Gamecube Controller.
  Wiimote Without Nunchuck.
  Wiimote With Nunhuck.
  
  I don't have a Classic Controller or a Gamecube Controller, so I can't really speak for those schemes. 
 But the game works fine without them, despite what you might think.
  
  It can take a little getting used to playing without the nunchuck, but it's perfectly doable.
 
  With the Nunchuck would be my recommended scheme. Every things laid out perfect.
  And as far as I've seen theres no stupid motion controls or 'waggling' to be seen.
  Every things 
 done with buttons.
  
  Theres a story mode and it's decent while it lasts, but it wont last long.
  It plays out as a 
 simplified 2D platformer.
  You play as various Nintendo characters and you're trying to defend the world from these evil Subspace 
 dudes and the Nintendo villains who as far as I can tell are working with them.
  Theres no voice over, there isn't even any textual conversations. Every things sort of mimed, relies 
 heavily on visuals to convey the story. It works well enough, but I can't help but think it'd be 
 better with a little conversation. At least between the characters that aren't mute.
  I don't expect and wouldn't want Link to chime in with a lengthy dialogue, but Snake can speak.
 
  Sonic can speak. Mario can. So they should.
  
  There are a couple of characters you can unlock if you opt to go back through it, but all characters 
 - with persistence - can be unlocked merely by brawling with a friend.
  400 brawls if I recall right ought be enough to unlock everyone, which sounds like a lot but the 
 games fun enough that that'll just fly by without you noticing.
  Theres an awful lot you can unlock simply by playing, which is nice because theres so much to unlock 
 that I doubt I could really be bothered going back to look for specific items.
  
  The graphics are attractive and despite the characters having different graphical styles, them 
 sharing the screen doesn't really feel off at all.
  And the sound? It's all good.
  Props have to be given to the music.
  
  Tonnes of classic video game tunes to be found, some 
 originals - some remixed - all awesome.
  
  Flaws? The short story mode.
  That's pretty forgivable considering how much there is to do outside of it, what with there being 
 events - challenges - online brawling etc, but it could've been padded out a little more.
  
  
  And perhaps the unlockables.
  I personally like having a tonne of unlockables, even if 
 know theres no way I'm going to be able to get every single trophy, sticker, piece of music, stage 
 etc there is to get.
  Completionists might feel it to be too much of a chore after a while though.
  
  All in all 
 the game is a hell of a lot of fun and it's so easy to pick up and play that it's worth a shot 
 for anyone to try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbplayer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash bros. Brawl is one of Americas most wanted games. What makes this game so fun is the 
 graphics, gameplay, music, and thew style of the character your using! Each character is unique 
 in there own way. Sonic is the fastest but hard to control, Ganon is very slow but really powerfull, 
 and Kirby can jump extra high but his moveset has bad accuracy. Also the adventure mode, the subspace 
 can take 7-9 hours of playing. You also face bosses after certain stages. And there are at least 
 a hundred cool cutscenes. Then another feature in the game is boss battles. You face every boss 
 from the subspace with 1 live! Another feature is making your own stage. Yet another feature is 
 Wi-Fi battles, where you try to beat people from around the world. There are also stickers which 
 you can take pictures of and you can also take pictures when your brawling. The only bad parts 
 is too many levels in subspace. What I mean by this is there some rooms or levels that only have 
 1 door at the end but no enemies! The other bad thing is in Wi-Fi battles, the brawl only lasts 
 for two minutes! But if you try to unlock every thing in the game, it could last a hundred hours! 
 Long story, fun, great design, awsome stages, and great soundtrack. 9.5 Wicked! Nintendo went the 
 extra mile!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IpodHero176
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  One of the most anticipated games for the Wii, Super Smash Brothers Brawl is a major hit with casual 
 and hardcore gamers alike, but the game does have some mess ups.
  
  The story is more fleshed-out than the previous installments due to the Subspace Emissary. The 
 writer of the story for Brawl, Kazushige Nojima, who is the scenario writer for the Final Fantasy 
 series, does a good job for the storyline, but it is a little cliched at times. You start out seeing 
 Mario battling Kirby. The game then lets you choose who you want to play as for this battle (Mario 
 or Kirby) . After the match, the villains for the story strike the arena releasing a Subspace bomb, 
 which sends the arena to an alternate plane called Subspace. The Nintendo heroes then must unite 
 and repel the enemy forces, which consist of the villains of Nintendo games such as Ganondorf, 
 Bowser, and Wario, just to name a few.
  
  The gameplay works the same as the previous installments with the only difference being the Smash 
 Attack that Brawl has (and a few items) . The thing that separates the game from the previous ones 
 is the ability to use 4 different styles for controls. A player can use the Wiimote alone, the 
 Wiimote and the nunchuck, the Gamecube controller, or the Classic controller. While I use the Wiimote 
 and nunchuck, I would (and so would many reviewers) recommend that a player use the Gamecube controller. 
 
  
  Now for the combat. The characters each have their own style of fighting, even though the controls 
 for doing their attacks are the same. The tiers are back, however, Bowser and Ganon are still in 
 the lower tiers, while Sonic and Wolf are some of the characters from the higher tiers. There are 
 two new things in Brawl, the Smash ball and the assist trophy. Let's start with the latter first. 
 The assist trophy calls guest characters from some of Nintendo's other titles to aid the summoner 
 in battle. The assist trophy is a good advantage to have in battle, just try and not let the opponent 
 get it. 
  
  The Smash attack can be a make or break in battle. The player must hit it 3-4 times (depending on 
 the strength of the attack) to break it. Once broken, whoever hit it last to break it, has the 
 ability to unleash their Smash Attack, which is Brawl's version of finishers. Some are avoidable 
 though (like Mario's and Samus') , but others aren't (like Pit's or Luigi's) .
  
  The musical score is great. One of the cool things is the game's music player, which plays the 
 stage music you have collected so far. You can control how many times a song is played on a stage. 
 If you don't like listening to the theme song for Brawl, turn the appearance rate down to zero, 
 if you love it, crank it up! It's all up to you. You find more songs by fighting in any brawl (including 
 online and in Solo mode) . It takes a long time to get all the songs, but there are a few shortcuts 
 that you can find on youtube or wikicheats. 
  
  The introduction to Wi-Fi for Brawl was a great idea, but badly executed. The Wi-Fi is a good thing, 
 you can play online with your friends. The bad thing isn't inputting the 12 digit friend code (that's 
 a downside, but not the worse thing) , but the connection in battle that's the problem. Several 
 times I have been playing online and I would be disconnected from a match. I tried all the tips 
 Nintendo Wii support has said to do. I changed my channel, which was the best tip, but matches 
 still lag sometimes. Even if it's not you, you can see others who are lagging. I know Nintendo 
 did a good job cutting down the lagging from the beta testing to launch, but I wouldn't mind if 
 they took a little more time to reduce the lagging even more.
  
  Another technical glitch is the tripping that the characters do. The Havok engine is one of the 
 most powerful physics engines in the gaming industry. While Nintendo might of had fun using this 
 engine, they must of forgot to take out characters tripping on nothing. You might think I'm crazy 
 for saying that, but if you play a match for 5 minutes, without any items, you will see a character 
 trip on nothing. My character even tripped when I slightly tilted the nunchuck.
  
  With all of this being said, the game is a great title for Wii owners. It has been a very long 
 time since the last Super Smash game, and Smash fans deserve a game as good as Brawl. Brawl has 
 many things that will keep the player coming back for a few months to the least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClassicPlayer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  After SSBM came out, everyone expected a sequel to come out, which got delayed numerous amount 
 of times, like Tomb Raider Angel of Darkness, but finally after 5 years it is here. But does this 
 5 year wait make Brawl the best Wii game or furthermore, the best multiplayer game ever?
  
  So you have your standard Classic Mode, and Adventure Mode (now known as SubSpace Emissary or SSE) . 
 Classic Mode pits you up against other Nintendo Characters either as a team, free for all, 1 v 
 1, or metal. There are 2 target practices instead of the 1 from SSBM. However it still brings back 
 memories. 100 Man Brawl is back, along with Crawl Brawl and Endless Brawl, with 10 Man Brawl. You 
 can do these 2 player now, which is a relieve.
  
  There are quite a good number of characters, like Zelda/Shiek, Link, Pokemon Trainer and Snake. 
 Now some are either quicker and weak, or fast and strong or vice versa, however your always going 
 to be perfect with one character, like for me it is Zelda/Shiek (Shiek mainly but Zelda when I'm 
 high on damage) and for my friend it is Link.
  
  The graphics on the characters had changed, the only character that shows no change is Kirby, which 
 is a shame. Some of the stages look the same too, but the background effects on Final Destination 
 is the equivilant of Devil May Cry 4 graphics for the PS3, and considering SSBB is on the Wii, 
 Nintendo deserve a pat on the back.
  
  Various new items have come into Brawl, one particularly the Final Smash, which once hit 2-5 times, 
 will allow you to press 1 to perform a Mega-Attack, which will deal your opponent a good dose of 
 damage, and can nearly knock them of the stage. The only problem with this is that it can instantly 
 turn the tide of the battle, and some characters are better than others, which makes this unfair. 
 However some take considerable skill to master and time right, as to get the full effect out of 
 them. You can always turn it off though, so there is no problems there.
  
  You can also change the match options like in SSBM, if you want no time limit, nor stock lives 
 then you can do that. Practically the same as SSBM, which is all good. You can change the colour 
 of your character as well as having to unlock a lot of rewards, trophies and music pieces.
  
  SubSpace Emissary is very boring, with there not being a proper story to it, other than you 
 have to help other good Nintendo characters for them to join your team. You can get trophy stands 
 and more music for Stage Builder along the way, but this mode will take you alot longer then Adventure 
 Mode in SSBM, which lets Brawl down big time.
  
  Stage Builder is quite good, as well as the fact you can play any music you unlocked during the 
 course of the game on your stage. You can play these with friends either on 1 Wii or via Wi-Fi, 
 where 4 Characters can test their might online on Stage Builder or the other Stages.
  
  The difficulty of SSBB has been reduced alot, there is 5 difficulties now. From Very Easy to Intense, 
 but even playing on Hard feels like Normal from SSBM, which is also a disappointment. Another bad 
 thing is in Melee a level 9 was incredibly hard, with you generally getting battered about without 
 laying a hit to the NPC. In Brawl however, you can kill a level 9 when only being a novice, and 
 if you've played Melee's level 9 you'll notice that it has been toned down a lot more.
  
  Overall SSBB is a great sequel, but if only they had included the stages from SSBM, as well as 
 the characters and maybe had 6 players online, would have given this a perfect 10. Lets hope the 
 next SSB comes out in 2-3 years, with signifcant changes.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucario-kid
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Brothers Brawl is the 3rd installment in the largely applauded series and is without 
 a doubt in my head and probably in everyone elses the best game on Wii, and if you were to ask 
 me the best game ever made!
  
  If your not familiar with the series this is basicly the main idea of the game, you pick out of 
 a large roster of Nintendo characters to play and battle against, and keep on pounding them until 
 they go flying of the screen. I know this sounds boring and simple but it's not, infact it is one 
 of the least simple and boring things you will ever come across, you could be playing matches for 
 hours on end withoutv getting bored, and it requires a lot of skill to deafeat strong opponents 
 without letting yourself be defeated first.
  
  And the soundtrack is easily the best heard in a game yet! Not only does it have music from it 
 and its previous games, but also those of other games, my personal favorourtes are definatley ENCOUNTER 
 from METAL GEAR SOLID and also THEME OF LOVE also from METAL GEAR SOLID, it however is an exclusive 
 that features in the only just released METAL GEAR SOLID 4: GUNS OF THE PATRIOTS
  
  But oh, there is so much more than the matches, there is so much here infact i can't name it all, 
 there's trophies, there's stickers, there's events, there's training modes, there's the story mode 
 named the sub-space emissary, (Which should keep you playing at least 8 hours on its own) and this 
 is just a snipet of what you can do.
  
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is easily the best iteration of the series yet, and easily the best game 
 on Wii yet, and possibly the best game to be made yet!
  You will adore this game so much! 10/10!!!!!! There is not even enough to give you a glimpse of 
 how good it is in this review, you really do have to experience it yourself to feel the true passion 
 this game has. And although the online lags this problem could be sorted out, and it does make 
 you think ahead of your actions!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvilLemon45
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 6, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  WOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO! Brawl's here! And it's better than you could have imagined. The only problem 
 I'm having is what to write about first Let's start with a summary.
  
  The original game, Super Smash Bros. [N64] wasn't the most influential because of the lack of features. 
 It was the sequel, Super Smash Bros. Melee [GC] that defined and shaped the series into an incredible 
 Nintendo fighting extravaganza. But many people complained about one thing in SSBM. The lack of 
 Solo play.
  
  After Masahiro Sakurai left HAL Laboratories in 2003, it looked very unlikely that there would 
 be another great SSB game. But when Satoru Iwata [president of Nintendo] asked Masahiro to lead 
 SSBB, the hope in many people was restore and their hopes looked to the third instalment in the 
 series.
  
  Now onto the game. As I mentioned before, there has a huge lack of Solo play in Melee. But in Brawl, 
 there has been a dramatic turnaround! With the new inclusion of the Subspace Emissary, a new 1 
 or 2 player story mode with at least 10 hours of game time, and that's if you whiz through it on 
 Easy. There are 5 difficulties: Easy, Normal, Hard, Very Hard, and Intense. Playing it on a higher 
 difficulty reaps it's own rewards, with better items, more trophies, and more trophy stands, which 
 you throw at enemies to capture them as a trophy. There are over 500 trophies to collect and around 
 100 of them are only obtainable through the Subspace Emissary, giving it a large amount of replay 
 factor. Old favourites like Event mode, Classic mode and Stadium modes [Home Run Contest, Multi-Man 
 Brawl and Target Smash [of which there are 5 different levels] ] return and a few new modes have 
 cropped up too. Once you unlock all the characters, there's All-Star mode, where you fight the 
 entire Brawl roster on their respective stages in order of their first game release, and Boss Battles 
 mode in the Stadium section [where you fight all the bosses of the Subspace Emissary] becomes available 
 once you complete the Subspace Emissary.
  
  But of course, it's still a multi-player game at heart. With even more options now, like more characters, 
 [39 if you count the different forms of characters] but essentially, there's a massive 35 characters 
 to select from for time brawls, special brawls, rotation brawls, tournament brawls, stock brawls 
 and coin brawls. There's also Wi-Fi for up to 4 players, where you can have up to 3 people on one 
 Wii play against friends, or people around the world. But there's a problem with Wi-Fi. A big problem, 
 no wait, a massive problem that affects almost every online Brawl. Lag. And tonnes of it.
  
  But don't let this Wi-Fi issue put you off. Nintendo have said that they are working on solving 
 the lag issue, to make the game run more smoothly. There is also a stage builder, where you can 
 create new stages from a range of parts that you unlock by making more stages, a sticker centre, 
 where you can place stickers that you have collected to make scenes that you can take photos of 
 and save to your Wii, a challenge mode, with 128 [I think] individual challenges to complete in 
 return for stickers, songs, trophies, stages and many more, and finally, a trophy diorama made 
 that lets you place your trophies and take photos at various different locations and angles. And 
 best of all, you can send photos and stages to your friends to let them enjoy what you've created 
 as well!
  
  +LEMON LOVES+
  +The range of characters
  +The great graphics
  ++All the new Solo modes 
  +++The huge replay factor [trophies, stickers, challenges, etc.]
 
  +++The information-sending ability
  
  -LEMON LOATHES-
  --The online lag
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FloSSiE_RuLz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  Everyone's talking about it and they should be. It's awesome. It better with friends and or family 
 but the 1  2 player co-op mode is about 6-10 hours if played correctly (meaning not skipping everything) . 
 I got bored of Super Smash Bros. Melee in about a week but so far this is staying fresh and addictive. 
 Online is good if you have no friends and want to play with other people. The controls are great. 
 If you're a veteran of Melee and love the GameCube controls they haven't changed and the Wii remote 
 on its own is pretty bad but with the Wii remote nun chuck combo the controls are great. I wasn't 
 sure if I should get it so I got the price from toys 'r' us (AU) then went to EB games for their 
 seen it cheaper and they'll match it and then I got a 7 day money back guarantee that I never 
 used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mollythefox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 6:54 am PT
Review:  Okay so first let me introduce myself i'm mollythefox and i just became a level 3! 
  
  so Super Smash Bros. Brawl is the 3 game in the Super Smash Bros. series and to some the best and 
 to some it could be better. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl it takes charactors from nintendo games 
 such as The Legend Of Zelda: Twilight Princess, the pokemon series, and from the hit show Kirby 
 right back at ya!
  
  1 player mode!
  
  Okay when you pick Solo mode you can play the game by yourself. If you pick adventure mode you 
 can play the Subspace Emissary where you can play through the story line by yourself or with one 
 other friend or family member! In the Subspace you start out as Kirby or mario and then work your 
 way to the game's boss the evil tabuu! 
  Another solo mode is the classic mode. Classic let's you battle your way through a pre set order 
 of brawls (battles) . The classic mode also includes 2 break the targets stages where you have to 
 smash the targets using your charactors powers and attacks!\
  But enough about 1 player mode time for 2 player mode!
  
  2 player mode
  When you pick v. s 
 mode or as the game calls it brawl mode you can play with up to 4 people including yourself! When 
 you pick brawl mode you start with the following charactors:
  
  Zelda/ sheik
  bowser
  peach
  meta knight
  kirby
  pokemon trainer w/ squirtle, charizard and ivysaur
  mario
 
  samus/ zero suit samus
  donkey kong
  didy kong
  link
  lucas
  ness
  fox
  wario
  pikachu
  king dedede
  pit 
  ike
  ice climbers
  yoshi
  and captain olimar!
  
  and 
 if you play a certain number of v. s matches then you could get one of the following secret charactors:
 
  
  sonic the hedgehog
  snake
  falco
  wolf
  jigglypuff
  toon link
  mr. game and watch
  captain falcon
  ganondorf
  lucario ( who did in fact replace mewtwo from 
 melee)
  luigi
  marth
  and R. O. B
  
  so all together there is a total of 35 playable charactors! you can also get one of the following 
 charactors to help you from a assit trophy:
  
  andross
  barbara
  custom robo
  devil
  dr. wright
  excibite
  gray fox
  hammer bro.
  helirin
  infantry and tanks
  
 isaac
  jeff
  kat and ana
  knuckle joe
  lakitu and spines
  little mac
  lyn
  metroid
  mr. resetti
  nintendog
  saki amamiya 
  samurai goroh
  Shadow the Hedgehog
 
  stafy
  tingle
  and walauigi
  
  assit trophies can be use during a brawl when they fall on the ground and can be picked up and 
 automaticly and the good thing is they hurt only your opponents that your against!
  
  then you get the pokemon balls with pokemon inside when you throw them they function the same way 
 assit trophies do. These are the pokemon that are able to be sent out:
  
  bellosom
  bonsly
  celibi
  chickorite
  deoxys
  electrode
  entei
  gardevoir
  goldeen
  groudon
 
  gulpin
  ho-oh
  jirachi
  kyogre
  latias
  latios
  lugia
  manaphy
  meowth
  metagross
  mew
  moltres
  munchlax
  piplup
  snorlax
  staryu
  scuicune
  togepi
 
  torchic
  weavile
  and wobbuffet
  
  well that's all the time i'm have and all the thoughts i have to share at the time... Bye!
  
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: felix19194
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2008 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Brothers has always been a good game all the way back to the nintendo 64. You just 
 cant never get tired of this game...
  
  Graphics - 9.0 - The only reason this game does not get a 10 is because it is on the wii system 
 and therefore has graphics that are lower than other games graphics. But you'll catch yourself 
 sometimes staring at all the detail in the characters because here is where the developers made 
 a superb job.
  
  Gameplay - 10 - The same old concept... Button mashing, crazy, mindblowing fighting game. Even 
 though the main gameplay has no storyline whatsoever. The SSE presents a decent story of how all 
 the characters meet. And the online and multiplayer mdoes thay are just crazy and exciting.
  
  Sountrack - 9.5 - Although the game has no real music. The sound effects and they background 
 melodies give it a very unique mood to play in. So that's why it gets this score.
  
  Price - 10 - This game is well worth the 50 bucks you'll pay for it, you just have so much to do 
 and so many things to accomplsih that you will never be really finished.
  
  Overall - 9.8 (Shown score is 10 because it is an approximation) - I recommend this game. If you 
 own a Wii system consider on having this game on your collection because it will define wether 
 you are a true nintendo fan or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amm795
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl! It seemed as if it took forever to arrive and it finally did and it was 
 worth all of the waiting.
  Melee was great but nothing compared to Brawl. To start the game is actually quite simple to play 
 and with 4 different possible controls it makes it much more fun. The graphics are also astonishing. 
 
  The game is packed with tons of characters and locations. There is also the ability to playback 
 brawls, take great screenshots, play online, create your own locations, collect more trophies and 
 stickers, and play in a story mode. All of these things are great which make Brawl spectacular. 
 However after playing a lot-being able to beat high level CPUs, beating the story mode, and collecting 
 tons of trophies and stickers-the game does get old. Thats not to say the game is not fun. Its 
 at its best when you can play multiplayer with friends who are almost as or better than you. The 
 game is overal great and highly addicting for quite a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalcross
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Has there ever been something that you wanted to like, but the more time you invested in it, the 
 more you realized that you just did not enjoy it? Be it a book, a movie or even a person, chances 
 are we've all had this occur to us. In terms of gaming, the first game I invested so much time 
 into a flawed product was Sony's The Getaway. On paper, the previews gave this game a lot of promise, 
 but once I finally started playing it, I just could not enjoy it the way I was hoping to. I completed 
 the game and invested the hours necessary to see it through, but it was a very difficult process 
 with many frustrating moments. 
  Since then, I've been extremely cautious when investing my time and money on a specific title. 
 Thanks to our freedom of choice, if there was anything I was hesitant about, I made sure to get 
 enough information before I made my choice. Now in 2008, I have encountered the next game that 
 I thought I would enjoy, but after spending a solid amount of time with, I realized that it's just 
 not for me.
  
  As a Wii Owner, the selection of great, high-class titles is few and far between. In fact, it's 
 actually the lesser known titles that have ended up being the true gems to the system (at least 
 in my opinion) . Before Super Smash Brothers Brawl was released, I had never played a game in the 
 series. I never owned a Nintendo64 and I didn't bother to buy Melee when I twice owned a GameCube. 
 With Brawl being my first experience, I thought that this would be a fresh change of pace since 
 this is clearly labelled as a fighter unlike anything else. 
  
  Super Smash Brothers is fairly simplistic. Unlike regular fighting games, where your objective 
 is to deplete your opponent's health to zero, here you actually want to hit your opponent enough 
 times so that they are thrown off screen and cannot return to the stage. It's nice that you can 
 take 200% or more damage and still be in a fight, but it isn't a system without its flaws. Kicking 
 your opponent off the screen is nothing new as Soul Calibur and the Virtua Fighter series both 
 have that goal, but here, that is the only way to win.
  The controls in the game, while easy to learn are not always responsive. To jump you have two options, 
 either press up on the control pad (simple enough) or press 'c' on the nunchuk. While that sounds 
 simple, it's not always responsive. There were many times in the game where my character on relatively 
 low hit percentage (less than 75%) would end up dying because I could not jump to reach the ledge. 
 This wouldn't be a problem, except for the facts that it happened often and the computer's character, 
 which had a higher hit percentage, would still be able to recover and keep on fighting. To be fair, 
 it does vary from character to character, but the system doesn't work right.
  
  The controls in the game are as stated before, fairly simple and thankfully there are many options. 
 You can play it with only the Wii Remote, the Wii Remote with the nunchuk, the classic controller, 
 or if you have a GameCube controller, you can use that. It's nice to have options, but I really 
 from my experience, the best controller option is the GameCube. It's really disappointing that 
 in order to enjoy a Wii game, you need to use the controller of the last generation. If you don't 
 have access to that controller, then playing this game will not be that fun. 
  The game itself only essentially uses two buttons. Looking at the Wiimote and nunchuck control 
 scheme, your 'A' Button is your primary attack while the 'B' button is for your secondary or special 
 attack. Depending on the way you press those buttons and in which direction, your attacks will 
 vary. For example, press 'B' and down with Samus and she will drop a bomb; press 'B' and up and 
 she will do a lightening summersault (I believe that is what it's called) . It doesn't take long 
 to learn your character's moves set, so the learning curve is next to none.
  
  There are good things about the game. There are a lot of characters to choose from, once you've 
 unlocked them all. If you're a Nintendo fan of any stature, you will enjoy the selection and the 
 possibilities of being able to duke it out with Samus, Link, Mario, Captain Falcon, or my new favourite 
 Pitt (from Kid Icarus, a game I really do hope is announced at E3 2008) . While there are a lot 
 of characters, most of them, including Solid Snake and Sonic the Hedgehog, are locked and must 
 be unlocked by playing the game over an extended period of time. This is expected and a common 
 thing for most fighting games, so there is no complaint there, except that for both Snake and Sonic, 
 being locked is the same if Soul Calibur IV decides to lock Darth Vader. If you're new to this 
 game or have friends over and they want to play with Snake, unless you've unlocked him, you'll 
 have to play for a while to get him as a character.
  
  The graphics and sounds are top-notch and I cannot hate on them. The character models and the environments 
 look great and the sound, for a game that has no voice-work, is also up there. If this was in High 
 Definition, it would make any person salivate, but even in SD, this looks really nice. 
  
  Brawl does offer a lot in terms of unlockables and gameplay modes. You have your regular arcade 
 mode, events, training but the meat of the game is The Subspace Emissary. It's an interesting way 
 to give you a single-player adventure in a fighting game, but it might not appeal to those who 
 just want to fight. Also, in order to unlock characters in the game, you really do need to play 
 this mode, so if you are not enjoying it, getting all the characters will be an extremely longer 
 process.
  
  Even with all that is good with the game (graphics and options) , I just could not enjoy this game 
 enough to recommend it. In my honest opinion, I think this a disappointing game unless you've played 
 previous games in the past, own multiple game-cube controllers or have enough friends willing to 
 help you unlock the characters. This is strictly a fan-service type of game that is catered to 
 the teenagers who played the original back in 1999 or enjoy playing something extremely simple. 
 I gave this game an honest chance, spending plenty of time with all its options and I just continued 
 to get frustrated with not knowing what I was doing right or wrong and still ending up the same 
 way: dying a few times before beating a Hand and seeing a small CG clip of the character I used. 
 
  If you're a fan of the series, you'll pick this up, enjoy it and continue with your normal life. 
 If you're new to it, like I was, your best bet is to first rent this and see if you're willing 
 to invest your time and energy, then go out and spend the 40-50 dollars on it. 
  I really wanted to like this game but sometimes it's better to be honest with yourself rather than 
 pretending you're having a good time. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super-Samio
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  You rarely get a game this good. I mean, If you like nintendo, and well, who doesn't? What MORE 
 could you ask for? This is a game where your favourite nintendo character can kick the crap out 
 of OTHER ONES. This time round, it has a really cool adventure mode, with some cool cutscenes and 
 that. All the good characters are still there, with some new ones to get the hang of.
  
  One of the best multiplayer games around, and this time round its online too! If you have a wii, 
 I recommend it, I mean all your family can play! You can play with just a wiimote, a wiimote and 
 nunchuck, a classic controller and an old gamecube one. Theres NO EXCUSE for people not to play 
 it!
  
  This time round you can even take snaps and vids, which is cool. Snap a cool move and save it to 
 your wii or SD card, send it about and browse through them, for brawling memories. The online gaming 
 is also sweet, you can watch others and bet on the winners, and you can jump in yourself. All in 
 all, I'd say this is one of the best games on wii so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UltimaSlayer94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  The Super Smash Bros was always a fun and addicting series for many. I would still play melee before 
 it came out, just doing VS mode against lvl 9 CPU's. It never got old, and when I had a friend 
 over, the fun only skyrocketed. This game has seen about 5 delays AFTER the initial delay of its 
 release date... so believe me when I say we were expecting a hell of a lot from this game, being 
 forced to wait for so long. Did it deliver? Read on as I break it down.
  
  Presentation: There are 5 control options for the game. It's a shame the gamecube controller is 
 the only thing that actually works. And the gamecube controls are fine, albeit exactly the same 
 as Melee's. The AI has definitely been dumbed down here... what was a lvl 7 CPU in Super Smash 
 Bros Melee is now a lvl 9. The little interface there is gets the job done. The "story mode" Subspace 
 Emissary, consists of CG cutscenes with your favorite Nintendo characters (Plus the overpowered 
 Sonic, and disappointingly bad Solid Snake) in which the only sounds you hear are grunts. That's 
 right, nobody talks. At all. So, as you can imagine, the story is nonexistant. Production values 
 are insulting to a fan like me: They delayed the game more than a year AFTER the initial 7+ years 
 wait, and they basically gave us the same graphics, sounds, and concepts I was playing in 2001.7/10
 
  
  Graphics: Quite disappointing. Yes, it looks better than Melee. However, given all the time they 
 had, it is very disappointing. Character models and returning stages are the same things we saw 
 in Melee with a few extra pixels. The new stages look pretty good, however. There are some framerate 
 issues, particularly in online play. But, overall, this game's graphics are nothing special. 7.5/10
 
  
  Sound: The game's soundtracks consist of Nintendo tracks, and a few Sonic and Metal Gear Solid 
 tracks. The songlist is well done, and has a few great tracks in there. The CD collection feature 
 is nice, though is pretty useless to anyone but the biggest Nintendo fanboy/audiophile. Sound effects 
 haven't changed from Melee. 9/10
  
  Gameplay: Where my biggest gripe rests. There are new characters, new stages, new items, new modes, 
 new trophies, and generally a TON of stuff to do. For a hardcore Smash Bros fan like me, it's expected. 
 For a newcomer or casual Melee fan, you will love it. The game's balance has been all but killed: 
 There are several obviously-overpowered characters that EVERYBODY plays now (Sonic, Ike, and Pit 
 to name a few) . But, once you stop drooling over all the new content, you begin to realize something. 
 We waited for this game for 7 years, and we basically got Super Smash Bros Melee 1.5. Though there 
 are some new features, its honestly just like Melee in the core of it. You're still trying to knock 
 people out of the stage, still always running for items (especially the Smash Ball that makes the 
 game feel like Mario Kart... no skill involved) , and still trying to unlock everything. They also 
 took out some of the best characters and almost all of the stages in previous entries. Online play 
 is useless, because, in reality, you're just playing against CPU's. I mean, what's different? Thanks 
 to Nintendo's terrible friend code and no-talking-whatsoever pre-school rules, you're basically 
 fighting CPU's. You're also doing this will lagging terribly and constantly being disconnected. 
 I was so excited when I finally unpackaged this game, and expected to play it for years to come.. 
 but in reality, the very disappointing gameplay kept me hooked for all of a few days. I shortly 
 went back to playing Melee again, which had more balance, better characters, and stages (and no 
 Smash Balls/Sonic) . So, in short, the gameplay is the big disappointment here. 7.5/10
  
  Lasting Appeal: There's a ton to do here: Many, many modes to complete, tons of stuff to collect, 
 and then so much more that it could easily take months. But if you're a hardcore fan like me, after 
 unlocking most of the stuff, you may just go back to playing Melee for the much better gameplay. 
 Still, for the shear amount of content, I'll give this high marks. 9.5/10
  
  Overall, if you're new to the series, this is the best way to start. If you were a fan of the 2 
 previous Smash Bros games, pick this up, but expect to be disappointed once you complete and collect 
 most of the content, and are stuck with rehashed and bad gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fleshandblood10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 3:12 am PT
Review:  1) Gameplay:
  
  It is a shame that nintendo put no effort at all into including motion sense into the game. It's 
 many variable control styles though is good, you are able to use the wii mote, wii mote pluss nunchuck, 
 classic controller and also the gamecube controller. But the idea is the same on all of these, 
 Button mash your way to victory.
  
  The gameplay itself is just as fast paced and crazy as its predecessors. The variety of moves you 
 are now able to do is vast, and the ammount of items and abilities each character has enables you 
 to play with anyone without getting bored. They all have their own unique finishing moves (which 
 is a new feature to the game which is fun to employ) . They all have their own strengths and weaknesses 
 and every character is just as easy to use.
  
  There are several modes to the game. More options for one player games makes it able to be played 
 for fun wither with or without friends. The gameplay experience is increased with friends but the 
 one player sections are quirky enough to be given a go. The nice touch to these options is that 
 you can mostly have a second player help you in a co-operative style.
  You can also build your own levels. This feature increases the accessibility of the game as you 
 can feel like you are part of it. The level builder itself is a bit clumsy but if you get bored, 
 the pre-made levels are all fantastic anyway.
  
  Online the game shines. complete with people around the world in a number of different ways. You 
 will of course realise that all the practise you have had could mean nothing though.
  
  The learning curve can be fairly harsh in Brawl. Difficulty levels seems to change without consideration 
 of what you can do, but it remains playable and even when you loose you do try again fairly happily. 
 As always the magic hand is very hard to beat.
  
  2) Graphics:
  
  Graphically the game shifts from awesome effects to run of the mill gamecube graphics. In the one 
 player campaign the story line is dominated by visually stunning cut scenes. The action itself 
 is sometimes difficult to see when the camera zoomes out too much, and it can be hard to keep track 
 of who you are, but that can add to the fun of the game.
  
  3) Levels:
  
  The levels are just as random at times. Some of the new ones are very well thought through. The 
 Warrioware style level is wonderful as not only do you have to fight but you also have to dodge 
 and duck and destroy things in the quick 4 second style of Warrioware. You also have the choise 
 of a few older levels from the previous games which have has a nice face lift to bring them to 
 Brawl slandered. 
  
  4) Multiplayer:
  
  The game is much better with others to play with. Originally I was a bit disappointed with the 
 game because I couldn't see a lot of change from Melee. There are a lot more trophies and unlockables 
 to achieve in this game though and its nice that you can have a friend help you to do it.
  
  5) Summery:
  
  Brawl is a game worth owning. It didn't really need to be on the Wii, but 
 with the internet options and the larger memory it wouldn't have worked on the gamecube. It is 
 a shame they haven't used the wii's motion sense but it doesn't matter because once your into the 
 game you don't notice or care. There are a lot of characters, levels and game modes to choose from 
 and it can be played by anyone, so give it a go! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shy_Guy_Red
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl is the next Smash Bros in Nintendo's fan favorite fighter series. This installment, 
 which has had many delays and seems to be a big point in the Wii's life cycle, has lots of changes 
 that are able to really expand on the core formula, but don't change it all, a really cool move 
 Nintendo made. They have many great new additions that really make it feel brand new, although 
 not too new......
  
  Let's start with the biggest change to the Smash formula: The Subspace Emissary. Now, the SSE is 
 basically a 2D platformer but with many changes to it. It is actually a lot like the Kirby games. 
 Each character has a HP and you get to part when you must battle a mini boss or a series of enemies 
 before you can move on. It is just like a Kirby game, but with 1 difference, the variety is gone, 
 and the story is horrible. You'll be doing the same thing over and over and will follow the story 
 so horrible, that the website had to explain it. Seriously, has there ever been a game where you 
 have to go to the website to figure out the story? What is this? Although the game has cut scenes 
 in each level that are just amazing! They are amazing and it's great to just watch them over and 
 over. You play every level because you want to see the scene, and they are awesome!
  
  The great part about this is that this is about half of all the single player stuff in Brawl. And 
 the SSE is real long, so there is a lot to do in this game. Classic Mode returns along with All 
 Star mode and many of the other modes in Melee. Home Run Contest, Break the Targets, and Multi 
 Man return and, and all of these modes (except Classic) have the co-op feature. There is a new 
 Boss Battle mode, which comes from the Kirby series which is pretty fun. 
  
  Now the multiplayer returns and is as great as ever The new stages are amazing and the new items 
 both make the game more chaotic and that much more fun. The Smash Ball itself is very cool and 
 will be your favorite item by far. Although.......... the Final Smashes that each character has 
 are really really unbalanced and this is a big problem. Seriously, some characters like Olimar 
 and Ganondorf have Final Smashes that usually always kill or will do a ton of damage, then there 
 are those like Pokemon Trainer and Mario which have a smaller range then Ganondorf but have a smaller 
 chance of killing someone which makes no sense. Nonetheless, they are real awesome and it's fun 
 to fight for them when they appear.
  
  Another great new addition besides the great multiplayer and large, but bit boring single player 
 is the addition of online. With online, you can now play with people all over the world. You can 
 even send and receive pictures and videos you make. It's really cool........ but there are a lot 
 of problems with it...... a lot! For one thing, you can't send pictures and stuff by giving someone 
 your Brawl code. You have to give them your Brawl code and your WIi code, which I don't get at 
 all. Also, for some reason, if you Brawl without Friend codes, you have to do 2 minute matches 
 and you have to try to get 4 people. Seriously, why can't you do 1 on 1 battles and you have to 
 do 4 player battles? This makes no sense. On the plus side, when you battle with friends, you can 
 do anything! You can even do co-op online, which is awesome! I just wish that when someone was 
 online you could like send an invite or something to get them to know you are online too and want 
 to battle. Also I have found that there is lag, which really takes all the fun out of it since 
 you can't play at your best.
  
  Another new addition is the stage builder. Now, the stage builder is truly something that this 
 series needed. This lets you build stages out of everything and you can make them as wacky as you 
 want. It's real cool and a great new feature. My only complaint is that I think you should be able 
 to place where the characters will start out when the battle begins.
  
  Also a really cool new addition is the My Music feature. This lets you customize how often certain 
 songs will play on a stage which is AWESOME! As a lover of video game music, I loved this! It is 
 great, although I dislike how some stages have 12 songs, while others have 3. Then again, stage 
 builder lets you pick your own song, so it's ok.
  
  There are also Masterpieces and the Coin Launcher which are nice new features but kinda pointless.
 
  
  Also the music in the game is astounding! Seriously, SSBB could have the greatest soundtrack ever! 
 The graphics are also real great and a nice improvement over Melee. The new characters are also 
 real unique. Clones are gone, which is great, and characters like Olimar, Snake, Sonic, Lucario, 
 and Pokemon Trainer are real fun to use and nice unique characters that help the Smash formula 
 stay fresh for a bit.
  
  Overall, Super Smash Bros Brawl has many many new additions that take the Smash World to its fullest, 
 but don't change the formula much. However, many of the new additions were not used well and needed 
 work. However, the multiplayer is great as ever and you will keep playing this game for months....... even 
 years because it is so addictive and there is so so much to do that you won't forget this game........
 
  
  Overall score: 8.75 
::::::

::::::
UserName: highflyer800
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 1:39 am PT
Review:  So its Finally out And Ive got my copy and its just great. I completed the singleplayer in 8 hours 
 and that isn't to bad for a fighting game Considering how most other fighting games take to fin 
 this is very good and in that run you unlock mostly all the roster apart from a few people who 
 can't but added till you beat the game. It has a great roster with there own great moves and the 
 Final Smashes are just incredible.
  
  Threre are loads of stuff to collect and many gameplay modes like boss mode and event mode which 
 makes it return. Also the game look amazing and shows that there is something in the little old 
 wii. The create a stage is very simple but very fun and actually you can make something pretty 
 fun if u have a friends over. Speaking of the stages there is a hell of a lot of them. I think 
 there's about around 20 or more in all from different games ones like the Green hill zone from 
 sonic, the Pirate Ship from Zelda Wind Waker and so many others.
  
  There's also a ton of music in Brawl from a wide range of old games which is a nice little touch 
 as well. Of course this Being A nity game most the roster doesn't talk apart from one or two guys 
 so if you looking for some voice acting in your game then you should look else where.
  
  Although the game is by far the best game on the Wii there are a few problems i have with it. One 
 is the balance of characters. Some are really overpowered such as Ike and others are just strange. 
 Take Sonic for example, Sonic is a pretty all round good char but there one major flaw. He has 
 no real KO hitter making it harder for him to win matches that are scored on kills. The singleplayer 
 also at times does get a little repetitive. The finally problem is trying to connect to a public 
 online game. Right now most people are stuck using the friend code system and it still not even 
 easy to set up a game on that.
  
  Even so this by far is the best Wii game you can get and i total recommend you pick it up. There's 
 just so much there to keep you happy. Like most people waiting for this game i was also total miffed 
 by the set backs i mean it not even out over here yet but i guess apart form the set back in Europe 
 it seems they were all total worth it . This game is just great and yes it has it problems but 
 there so much there and its just fun, a thing which a lot of games don't have nowadays. Now I guess 
 i have to give my hats of to Nintendo on making a good game. Just try sort you dates out better 
 next time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wattss78
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  allright hello people this game is the bomb. i cant lie. i love this game!!!!!!!!! i mean they got 
 all kind off the old charters like=MR. game&watch, wolf, and falco. but this game has been a heart 
 betting realed game. i mean this game has been years senece melee. we all have been waiting and waiting 
 and waiting and waiting and waiting.... O you get the point!!! but this game is amazing!!!!!!! they 
 got 41 stages and ? charters. but they got 10,000,000,000 assist trophy. they got=golnden sun, mario 
 group, sonice group, and alot lot more!!!!!! well from the traliers you can see the that the incredble 
 snake will be a charter!! but that not all?? there are well i should not tell you this but there 
 going to have toon link, wwhhhhhaaatttt???? well the diffentes is that link is not toon. get it. if 
 you ever played th hour class you will get what i mean. but that got some amsome charters and some 
 amzaing stages. but that not all?? that right that not all. of course you know pokeymon. ok they the 
 most best pokeymon. they got=bonslew, garadows, and the loving staryou. plus they got a pokeymon goldden. well 
 what can she do. just put her in water and let your foes DIE!!!!! all im saying is this game got 
 the game. so get your lazy but up and get this game at walmart. higher prices allwas. well in teel 
 next time -wattss78 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CalibusTheCrab
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros returns for the Wii in this incredible Party game that will get you hooked from 
 the minute you start playing.
  Super Smash Bros Brawl is pretty much about using your favourite Nintendo Character to beat the 
 snot out of your most hated Nintendo Character!, Or your friends will do.
  The Story mode has been redone into a better storyline called 'The Subspace Emissary', In this 
 you must clear each level and it's boss as different characters while meeting new ones on your 
 way. The story moe has also put in a feature to allow another player to tag along with you as well!
 
  
  The Multiplayer is better than ever with a bigger selection of characters and levels and a new 
 feature called the 'Final Smash' which can turn the tide of any game in your favour or your enemies. 
 New Characters like Wario and Meta Knight have joined while other new characters that have been 
 ressurected like Pit have now joined the Brawl.
  
  The Multiplayer levels are better than ever with new hazzards added like fish or monsters that 
 eat you if you stray to close to a particular part of the level which makes the battle more intense.
 
  
  Over all SSBB has made another great title for the Wii and will never let you down with countless 
 secrets to be found.
  
  Regrets?: Some characters form Melee didnt make it.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pepsi-KFC
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  This game is brilliant but I'll get the very bad out the way first, the smash ball. It seems cool, 
 the moves are cool but its rubbish, the one who unlocks is just the one who was ;ast to hit it. 
 Even then as you have to jump to get it quite often you loose it in the air if someone hits you... 
 then you have to go get the ball... again, until you're rival gets it, you can only use it on land 
 while staying still aswell.
  
  Controlling the game is more slippy and poorer than melee but its easy to get used too I would 
 rate the following methods;-
  Wii Mote - 1/5 (apauling and moving is difficult)
  Wii Mote and Nunchuk - 3/5 (not brilliant but it works)
  Classic contoler - 3/5 (OK unless you're 
 trying to through - dosn't feel wright)
  Gamecube - 5/5 (perfect especially for melee fans, wavebird works even better as you may be jerking 
 the controller around a lot over WI - FI)
  
  WI - FI is done rather cheap as it is very very basic with random folk but with friends its very 
 good with many options. The graphics are very good for the Wii and rival the more basic of 360 
 games. 
  
  You can choose the music played on every course, most of it is garbage but the rest is amazing, 
 some brilliant tunes include - F Zero car select, Pokemon team galactic, F Zero Dream Chaser, Zelda 
 main/twighlight and ocarina theme, Meta Nights revenge and Meta Ridley. 
  
  There are 35 characters and some have to be collected... look forward to some of them such as Sonic, 
 Wolf and especially Captain Falcon. The pokemon trainers charizard is probably the best charater 
 and has one of the best final smashes but tiers out very quick so you have to switch, Ivysaur and 
 Squirtle arn't very good.
  
  The subspace emissary is very good, think you'll complete it in a couple of hours... it will take 
 10 hours at least but for 100% probably 15 hours is more realistic. The final boss is like the 
 core of metroid prime boss in metroid prime, in the sense that its just not fun to any extent and 
 very hard no matter what difficulty level the game is set on.
  
  Multi player is good, not much different from Melee or much better for that matter. The names you 
 can make have an extra letter... yey I can fit Pepsi in. You can customise taunts and emblems for 
 battling friends over WI - FI which quite cool.
  
  All in all the game is very good yet dosn't meet the standard expected of it especially considering 
 what Nintendo claimed about it, its still the game of the year to me so far and also the only very 
 good game on Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fannincritic
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2008 5:29 am PT
Review:  Every Smash Bros. fan has been waiting and waiting for a new game to come out for the Wii. And 
 it did! After much delay in shipping copies to North America, millions of fans and first-timers 
 will reply that it was worth the wait.
  
  DESCRIPTION: this is the third game in the Super Smash Bros. series. It lets you play as many different 
 Nintendo characters like Mario, Link, Kirby, Pikachu,
  Samus, DK, Fox, and many more. Not only it features Nintendo people, it also, for the first time 
 ever, features Sonic the Hedgehog, Solid Snake, and more other new characters! Now what are all 
 these people for? To control and beat up others that's what! Choose a person and a stage and get 
 ready to brawl with your favorites!
  
  POSITIVES: more characters, get to enjoy a great Wii experience, more game modes, and more stages.
 
  
  NEGATIVES: graphics are a little PS2 -like making it not as modern as expected, and the loading 
 time is kind of ridiculous, especially for a Wii game.
  
  Above all the that has been said here, I applaud for the makers of this game.
  Therefore, in 
 spite of a couple of problems in the game, I give it a 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saborzero
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 9:54 pm PT
Review:  One of the greatest game's on the Wii in my opinion. It's great enough for someone who doesn't 
 have a Wii to purchase one. Not only that but with the multiple way of using controllers, the game 
 can fit about anyone's preferences.
  
  It plays just as fun as the other smash bros games. New characters, new looks, same fun. New characters 
 are always fun to play and the characters all seemed to be balanced enough so there are no weaker 
 ones. (however I believe pit in the right/wrong hands can be completely overpowered) The music 
 is GREAT. I found myself listening to it just as a kill time. How many games can you say will make 
 you do that huh? 
  
  The online and stage creating makes the game by far, one of the best games of the year. Screw of 
 the year, of this generation of gaming is more like it. 
  
  Overall: buy it because you won't be disappointed in what you get. Great party and alone fun. Once 
 online hit, the game got that much greater. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_tails
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  The original Smash Brothers was a gamble for Nintendo, as the game was originally a Japan-only 
 release. When it was released in the West, it exploded. It became one of the N64's biggest releases. 
 The release of the squeal, Super Smash Brothers Melee, crashed onto the Gamecube, becoming one 
 of the consoles biggest attractions to new users.
  
  Brawl takes the formula of the previous games and smashes it to pieces, making itself a beast of 
 a game in its own right. Yes, it is at its core, the same game as the previous two games, but Brawl 
 is packed with so much more, one would be forgiven for forgetting about Smash Brothers and Melee.
 
  
  The Smash Brothers franchise at its core, is a fighting game, showcasing members of Nintendo's 
 most popular franchises (in and out of Japan) . The way the game works is different to conventional 
 fighters, since you must beat your opponent until they have enough damage to be launched of the 
 stage in defeat. The controls are simplified compared to other beat 'em up games, consisting of 
 only two attack buttons, when used with the analog stick, creates different attacks depending on 
 left, right, up or down. There is a shield, jump buttons and the ability to grab.
  
  The biggest appeal to Brawl, is the fighter roster, which is at its largest ever. The roster consists 
 of iconic characters from Nintendo's universe, and for the first time ever, two third party characters, 
 Solid Snake from Metal Gear Solid, and Sonic The Hedgehog. 
  
  Personally, I'd rather at least one of these characters available for play upon starting the game 
 for the first time, instead of playing the game for a minimum of three hours before you unlock 
 one. My reasons for this is because both were used in the hype for this game, and it is a kick 
 in the teeth for us. But, whatever.
  
  Each fighter is balanced out with their strengths and weakness', making the fighting mechanics 
 of the game fairly deep. Out of the all the characters, Snake feels the most out of place, as he's 
 controls and even his presence in the game seems tacked on. This is perhaps the developing teams 
 response to 'having' to put him in the game. 
  
  Brawl features a huge array of different levels, which, compared to the past games, aren't as amazing. 
 The unlockable new levels for Brawl (those that aren't re-hashes of past levels) are actually fairly 
 good, Luigi's Mansion and 75m being most notable of this. It also features a lot of customization 
 for battles, including tons upon tons of unlockable features and trophies, which number is roughly 
 upward of 250.
  
  Brawl has added sparkle due to the new single player adventure, The Subspace Emissary. It's a 8 
 hour long adventure mode which features a very loose story line involving all of the characters, 
 coming together to defeat a common threat. You play through a series of side scrolling platform 
 levels, which personally, are designed rather well. The story is shown through beautiful cut scenes, 
 which is littered with humor, however, the lack of dialogue, even subtitles, hurts this drastically. 
 Once this adventure mode is completed, you add extra stuff to the one player section of the game, 
 including boss battles and all-star mode. 
  
  As always, Brawl has an amazing soundtrack, possibly one of the greatest game soundtracks I've 
 ever heard. There are remixes of old Nintendo themes, as well as original themes. In addition, 
 there is a stage builder in the game, which allows you to use templates to build your own fighting 
 field, with customizable soundtracks.
  
  Brawl is an event for every Wii owner. It brings together a great deal of Nintendo magic and provides 
 hours upon hours of fun. It does have it's faults, and for those who have never been part of the 
 Nintendo camp, will find possibly no joy in this game. For those who do, will be rewarded with 
 an experience that will be able to be enjoyed for years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonzo187
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  We have all played Smash bros in some form the N64 smash bros and who could forget Melee I still 
 play it now for the fun of it even with brawl out.
  Any way if you haven't played smash bros once... the object of the game is to smash you're enemies 
 out of the screen sounds boring put this object in a lot of modes and you got your self a masterpiece.
 
  (Forgot to tell you in the game you have % the high the % the more you fly when you get hurt you 
 can lower it by eating food to get someone's % high attack them and then send them fling)
  Classic mode: 1 player only
  12 stages, 1 Master Hand, and a whole lot of enemies!!!
  In classic 
 mode you go through each stage trying to defeat your opponent in some cases it will be 2 on 2 so 
 you will have an friend or even 2 on 1 where it can be you vs. 2 people or you and a friend vs. 
 1 giant enemy 
  There can even be team of an enemy so there's 10 20 E. C. T (size matters on what level you play 
 on easy, normal, hard, very hard) and you have to defeat them all. At the end of classic mode you 
 will vs. the master hand, he just in the air trying to grab you or flick you or even shoot you 
 but you cannot smash him off out of the screen because in this match he has Health.
  Adventure mode: 1 or 2 players Co-op
  In adventure mode you pass a series of levels and power 
 up your player with stickers that you find on the ground. I wont say too much about this mode because 
 it will wreck the storyline of it.
  Other modes:
  There is multiplayer that has its own modes in its self like rotation brawl and special brawl.
 
  There are also two modes that you can unlock!!!!!
  And there are events where you do things like Link vs. Dark link and many more (there is also Co-op 
 events)
  These are just a few of the modes I haven't names them all !!!!
  
  (I didn't write about online because it is very laggy but don't let that bring the game down!!!! 
 Because online is ok with friends) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NirdBerd
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  I've always praised the Super Smash Bros. series, back since the very first, and one of the most 
 anticipated games of 2008, and the most highly anticipated game ever made for the Nintendo Wii 
 had arrived. You'd think that after a bunch of delays (Europe and Australiasia in particular) and 
 great visuals and such things were either small or big hints, hinting the audience that this game 
 will be one of the greatest games ever, it succeeded 60%.
  
  The online play is disastrous, I could play with a friend across the region or the country and 
 I'd get a lag spike or two, resulting in a frame rate jumping back from 5 FPS to 15 FPS, then 50 
 FPS then it'll go back to 5, and hang around between 5 and 15 Frames Per Second, which is a total 
 bummer, almost, well, everyone who were hyping for Super Smash Bros. Brawl had high expectations 
 for Brawl were really looking out for Online mode. Who woulda thought that they could pick from 
 a great roster of characters, go online, and it's a juggernaut in a lot of cases. But the question 
 linking to this, is, Can you still enjoy the game? The answer is, yes, but be appauled by the online 
 play, hopefully Nintendo can fix this, unless it was firmly implanted into the game, and we can't 
 receive updates, they don't fix the Wi-Fi for this, or, whatever, I don't know.
  
  Now I've got the negative side out of the way, first things first, the graphics are done so well, 
 you could pause and stare at your own character for ages. The characters have so much detail it's 
 mind blowing, every texture in Link's Master Sword, every spark in Mario's flames, every textile 
 in Wario's jacket, it's all done well, you could stare right into one place and see a whole lot 
 of detail. The environment while you're battling is amazing too, just don't be too amused by it 
 and get caught off guard by staring at it -- it's really beautiful. Super Smash Bros. Brawl has evolved 
 gracefully from Melee. With pride.
  
  The music is where it all happens, you don't want a headache, or to turn your volume down, you 
 want your ears to hear it all too, Nintendo remade some music, enhanced it and also just, well, 
 brought some memories back. Who would'a thought that we could hear the Famicom Melody and the Mario 
 Bros. theme again, Delfino Square and Metroid boss music. There are over 150 songs and the great 
 thing about all these songs is that, there are so many because it's ideal for your customisation 
 of the game. Don't like the most common song playing on your favourite stage? Then go to Options, 
 and then My Music, then click on your favourite stage, you can adjust which music plays most likely 
 or less likely, or not at all. There are so many songs, you may even like them all because they're 
 so great. You can even choose between 3 tunes for your main menu, which is pretty decent, my favourite 
 is, of course, the Super Smash Bros. Brawl Main Theme, the song that was implanted into our brains 
 since E3's announcement of the game. Let's get back to the game play for a sec (the first part 
 was about Online) . I have some personal ratings for the controllers, in case you don't know already, 
 you can use the Wii Remote turned on it's side, the Wii Remote and Nunchuk Controller, the Wii 
 Classic Controller, and of course, the GameCube controller.
  
  Wii Remote -  1/5 - Using a D-pad feels limited for this generation of gaming, saying it's old 
 school is humiliating, since Super Smash Bros never began using D-pads, the N64 used it's control 
 stick. also, the grab buttons are really hard to reach unless you have the same hands as Donkey 
 Kong. The Wii Remote is the worst of the bunch.
  
  Wii Remote and Nunchuk Controller -  2/5 - Shaking the Wii Remote for a smash attack feels weird, 
 and it could happen anytime if you accidently flick the remote, also the controls feel weird overall, 
 I don't really recommend it and I'm a left hander, so the nunchuk goes in my right hand, ignoring 
 that point (since it doesn't make any difference) , I don't recommend this control scheme either.
 
  
  Wii Classic Controller -  3/5 - Not exactly 'classic' if you can use the GameCube controller, also, 
 with the D-Pad and Control stick on the left side of the controller switched around, you'd have 
 to get use to the controls if you converted to this scheme, it's a shame the rumble isn't too good 
 on this, it also doesn't have a lot of grip, so that's a shame too..
  
  Nintendo GameCube Controller -  5/5 - The king of the four controllers overall, jumping, grabbing, 
 smashing, hitting, throwing, slamming, (uhm... yeah) are easy to get to, the grip of the controller 
 is the most comfortable, and, most of all, this controller gives you the most of Brawl, you want 
 intense fighting right? Play with this baby.
  
  Moving on, Nintendo did a good job on making a story on a spin off game, I found it really fun 
 to play through, it's a good 6 to 10 hours of time on your first play through on Normal or Hard 
 mode, there is Easy, Normal, Hard, Very Hard, Intense. The adventure mode for this story is called 
 the Subspace emissary, weird ministers are possessing your fellow Brawlers and what not, and it's 
 down to the Brawlers who are clear, to fight and save the world from Subspace, another good thing 
 about this is you can have a friend join you (not online) to play through this adventure mode, 
 you can also play through it multiple times without making new files. Even after you beat the Subspace 
 Emissary, there's still some other stuff to do, and the percentage will be in the late 80%'s, so 
 there's some replays to do.
  
  What more can I discuss?! Trophies, Assist Trophies, Final Smashes, Stickers, The Bosses, and more! 
 Brawl is full of things to do and you shouldn't have to play online all the time to experience 
 how great this game is, although it's a bummer that the online -- most of the time -- sucks, you do 
 have a lot of unlockables, this game takes ages to do, and it's all worth the game, when I bought 
 the game It's been on everyday, my Wii's been on during school paused during a battle, this game 
 is highly addictive, but Super Smash Bros. Brawl is not as absolute as it was truly meant to be, 
 the rough online play is it's cause, but we all enjoyed Melee, right? So this should be 50 times 
 better, regardless of online mode, hopefully we can expect better for the future, or for Nintendo 
 to fix the Wi-Fi connection a bit. So what are you waiting for? Buy it.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Graphics: 10/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Story: 9/10
  Value: 9/10
  
  Overall 
 Score: 9.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strat-Master
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  SSBB was one of the most anticipated games one the next generation console, and when it was released 
 it became a big hit. Why? Because it's really good.
  
  When you compare Brawl's graphics to it's predecessor, there is a big difference in the detailing 
 and it looks way better. For being on the Wii (which isn't the strongest in graphics) it looks 
 damn good.
  
  The gameplay is very fun. You can either play by doing an instant match or you can do the adventure 
 mode. This is the best multiplayer game out to date on the Wii, especially with Wi-Fi connection.
 
  
  The audio is very good in this game. It features sound tracks from various Nintendo franchises. 
 The sound effects are also very good.
  
  Overall SSBB is a very high quality game. Even though it can get shallow when you are alone and 
 have beaten all of the content, it is still an awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beedlezebub
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  
  I guess with the start of this review I should introduce the game, what with its name, genre, the 
 console to play it on, blood type, mother's maiden name etc.
  
  But This also being my first review (at least in a long time) I should introduce myself. So hello, 
 I'm the reviewer who will be wasting around three to five minutes of your life.
  
  
  
  
  So, the game, welcome to the colourful world of Super Smash Bros Brawl for the used to funnily 
 named machine: The Nintendo Wii.
  
  
  For those who are unfamiliar with the Smash Bros series, I'll try and say it in the most simplistic 
 way so even my grandma could understand. 
  Smash Bros. is a game series where mascots of big Nintendo brands (Mario, Pokemon, Zelda etc.) 
 basically fight each other, for those of you who don't know any of the three just previously mentioned, 
 who obviously live under a rock and may as well bugger off now, either to hopefully see what one 
 of these things are, or to knock your head repeatedly against a brick wallwith spikes on it. But 
 I digress. Why should one buy this game, what makes it worth buying over the last game in the series? 
 Well shut up, 'cuz I am about to tell you.
  
  
  For the first port of call, the graphics.
  
  
  
  
  Okay, we all know the Wii cannot hold 
 the same in the way of visuals quite the same way the PS3 or even the Xbox 360, as they Monster 
 Truck there way down the road, but this is not be saying that SSBB (Super Smash Bros Brawl) has 
 bad graphics, it has some very good one, which is the minimum of what I could say, but SSBB does 
 look good, the real bit of 'good graphics' comes from how much is happening at one on screen
  With fast-paced action, coupled (aww, marriage) with the constantly moving crazy and mostly colourful 
 backgrounds, SSBB does hold its own win the graphics house.
  
  Now for the real reviewing to take a shot at. Gameplay.
  
  
  
  
  Smash Bros isn't the 
 traditional form of fighting with each hit knocking down your opponents health until they lie there 
 feeling sorry for themselves, instead every attack you do will raise the percentage of the enemy, 
 as this gets higher, they get knocked further and further away, so, to 'kill' them as it were you 
 need to knock them off the edge and get them off the screen.
  
  
  What really makes SSBB so appealing, is its simple control scheme, one button jumps, one is normal 
 attack and another is special attack. But, a different directions pressed with one of the attack 
 buttons would allow your character to use a different move, for example, if I was playing as Sonic, 
 pressing B would activate the 'Homing Attack' whilst B+ Down would activate the spin dash.
  
  Please note that these are the button used with the GameCube Controller, the game also uses: 
 The Classic Controller, Wii Remote and The Wii Remote + Ninchuck combination.
  
  I would recommend the GC Controller, it uses the same controls as the previous game and it just 
 feels right, the Remote and Nunchuck combo is good but takes a bit of getting used to, I do not 
 own a Classic Controller so I cannot give my opinion on that, apparently the Wii Remote by itself 
 is just hard to get used to. 
  
  
  The Attack button is essentially the characters foundation moves, punches, kicks etc, yet holding 
 the buttons down would charge it up and cause a 'Smash Attack' causing more damage and teaching 
 your opponent to fly further.
  
  Luckily a number of weapons are at your disposal too, from laser guns to Baseball Bats, from Pokeballs 
 to Crates.
  
  A new item in the game is the Smash Ball, which is a small glowing orb of power which will give 
 the player who destroyed it a very, very powerful attack, delivering an extra layer of strategy 
 and urgency when one appears on the screen.
  
  Another Item is the Assist Trophy a Pokeball like item that sprouts a game from Nintendo's history, 
 or even sometimes hinder the player.
  
  Also one aspect that is very welcome to the game is 'The Subspace Emissary' a side scrolling adventure 
 game with CGI movies causing people to lick their Televisions.
  
  I wont go on about the single player, just that it comes with the GTA plague, ala; repetition. 
 The mode is fun but you will find yourself almost yawning at what's happening, luckily the game 
 throws in different characters just at the right time to keep one playing.
  
  One of the game's major welcomes would be the online multiplayer, the local multiplayer has always 
 been a great, everlastingly good factor of the series but with the added effort of online just 
 makes a smile etch into the face. Well it would be a grin but the online is.. A bit slow, I have 
 games that run perfectly online, yet this doesn't't, not unplayable but its an annoyance, Nintendo 
 have said they will fix it, but why release a game with bits missing, that's like a burger without 
 the meat, a man with no penis, a, hmm sorry I went off there. So erm, yes anyways, that's the multiplayer.
 
  
  
  
  The game also has a quite a surprisingly in-depth stage builder, I don't want to say much as I 
 need to unlock more parts (yes you have to unlock them, which is a gripe of mine) , you only start 
 some parts out of the many, but you can't use them online, which is a shame. Yet you can Share 
 them with others.
  
  
  
  Sound. A pat of the review that I had trouble thinking about, I mean I could say the general sound 
 effects sound good, but if a game had bad sound effects, the game would usually suck. However, 
 the music in this game is, in a word; Hollywood.
  
  SSBB has a orchestral epic theme, with other music ranging from older titles, to brand new ones, 
 even themes from Metal Gear Solid or Sonic.
  
  
  
  What will keep me playing this? Please tell me Josh, oh you who is so brilliant, wise, amazingly 
 good-looking and an all-round king of men. Okay, maybe not all that, I am not the wisest of men, 
 but I shall answer your questions.
  
  The Multiplayer for one, the game is a great laugh to play with others, and there is always that 
 ability to yell abuse at someone when they are sitting with you.
  
  
  
  
  Taking photos and sharing them online, or putting them onto your PC is also quite fun, I could 
 have mentioned that earlier but it is not a big thing really.
  
  
  
  
  The amount of content that can be unlocked will take anyone a decent portion of their lives, with 
 trophies, stickers, Cds, and around 35 characters, the game is Jam packed with extras, excluding 
 the Jam.
  
  
  
  To Name a Few:
  
  Pros.
  Loads of unlockables.
  
  Great music
  Great Multiplayer
  Online multiplayer
  A great character roster
  Tons of unlockables
 
  
  Cons.
  
  Online has yet to be perfected
  Sonic's phrases "Sonic's the name. Speeds my game"
  Unlocking stage builder parts. 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  Buy or Run?
  Brawl is a buy game unless you don't like the previous titles there is little to attract you to 
 play this, just remember this is the first game where you can finally see who would win in a fight, 
 Sonic or Mario, whilst the crowed screams for more brutality. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jg4xchamp
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  The Nintendo Wii has enjoyed a ton of success since its' launch. It has went on to become the industry 
 leader in hardware sales, it has attracted an audience no other system can attract, and as usualy 
 it is proving to be a successful console in selling Nintendo Software. 2007 was suppose to be the 
 year of "THe BIg 3" A. K. A Metroid Prime 3, Super Mario Galaxy, and Super Smash Bros. Brawl. Unfortunantly 
 Brawl got delayed, and Nintendo owners were left with the Big 2..
  
  Well the wait is over and Brawl is finally out and carrying with it a ton of hype. Despite some 
 flaws, I assure you Brawl lives up to the hype. Super Smash Bros. Melee took the formula from Smash 
 BRos. 64 and made it better. It added more moves, better stages, and more characters. Well BRAWL 
 took that philosophy and took it 10 more notches.
  
  The game is loaded and I mean absolutely loaded with content. From a map maker, to a fleshed out 
 single player, to the MP, the game modes, the picture taking, to the online, to the training, etc. 
 Simply put Brawl is worth the price tag and makes other games seem overpriced. 
  
  So lets get to the nitty gritty. The core part of any Fighters success is the combat itself. Well 
 for the most part it is Super Smash BRos. Melee. The game offers 4 control choices but the best 
 bet is the Gamecube gamepad. The typical combat sequences are still there. B is more power moves, 
 A is more physical moves. A quick slant of the joystick and A makes a smash attack (your bread and 
 butter for knockouts) . The rules are still simple, knock your enemy of the map. 
  
  However some new changes will be effective to keep the vets from saying rehash. First all of the 
 characters tend to flaot when they jump. This change may seem little, but is actually a huge thing 
 for balance. In Melee characters like Fox could drop the floor quickly where as a Falco stayed 
 up there a little longer. Meaning open target. This time, not so much everybody floats. The wave 
 dashing glitch has been taken out, but some of the others are still there such as "L cancel". But 
 the biggest change is probably Finishing moves. A new item that has been added is the Smash Ball. 
 It becomes a giant race to kncok the thing down and use it. It creates an almost unnavoidable and 
 over powering finishing move depending on the character. Mario shoots a giant fireball, Bowser 
 becomes Giga Bowser, Pit calls upon his Mom and a bunch of angels. 
  
  Now a big part of Smash BRos. Gameplay are Items (weapons) and The Levels. To start off there a 
 ton of weapons spanning so many Nintendo games. One of the coolest is the assist trophies. In which 
 case they bring upon any character from a game that was on a nintendo system (think pokeball, but 
 with characters from other games like GREYFOX) and he/she will attack your enemies for you. The 
 levels are amazingly well designed and quite creative. Unlike most fighters where it is 1 v 1. 
 Smash Bros. can be 1 v 1 v the game world. Plain and simple a good part of the strategy is working 
 with the map world as well. 
  
  The gameplay is not the deepest combat out there, but the skill and sheer speed required to master 
 the gameplay more than makes up for the lack of huge depth. Where the game does get an added boost 
 is the sheer mayham of the items and the crazy level design. The game is just as much about environement 
 as it is about combat. The biggest thing is that it offers 4 player mayham, where most fighters 
 are limited to the 1 v 1. 
  
  So with combat out of the way let me just say that Multiplayer is where this game absolutely shines. 
 There are so many game modes, so many ways to customize the game that you will probably be playing 
 this with your friends for months, years even. I would also like to say that this game is best 
 suited for on the couch with your buddies. The online is quite good, but not the ground breaker 
 it was hyped to be. There is some coding issues online, the framerates don't hold up as well online (it 
 is 60Frames per second offline) , and all in all the online is limited. WIth strangers it is a simple 
 timed match. With friends online you get back all the content. That is it to the online. There 
 are no leader boards or rankings or skill systems. The online is simply not fleshed out enough 
 which is a shame. This could have easily been one of the most competitive online games on the gaming 
 market. 
  
  Brawl is loaded with a ton of characters but to unlock them you will more than likely have to go 
 through single player (unless you plan on playing 400 plus matches in versus mode to unlock everybody) . 
 The clas-sic single player is still there, and hasn't changed much. It is a guantlet and for the 
 most part it is solid. The event matches return, and some of the later challanges can be maddening 
 difficult. However the big premiere thing is the Subspace Emissary. Let me get this out of the 
 way, this is probably the best single player in any fighter. 
  
  Fighting games have the worst single player experiences ever, and usually same themselves with 
 excellent gameplay and multiplayer. Well Brawl changes that a little. Unstead of the single player 
 sucking it is average. Yes it is still a boring sequence, but all in all you could get through 
 it. It is meant to be a quiet story, and offer a nice change of pace gameplay with the side scroller 
 feel with Brawl combat. What kills the SSE, is just how repetitive it is. The environments look 
 the same, and all you really do is keep chugging on and fighting. Then you have to do the same 
 level but backwards or in a new direction. WHich just kills the experience. the story is well non 
 existant, the cutscenes are okay at best, and all in all SSE isn't anything great. 
  
  Visually the game looks great for a WIi game and runs at 60 Frames Per Second. The audio is damn 
 near perfect. Why? because it spans 20 years of Nintendo history and the history of other companies 
 such as Konami, Square, etc. Simply put you will find a sound clip you will like. The value as stated 
 before is there. There is so much to do, so much to unlock that you could play this game for months 
 before you unlock everything, and years before you get sick of it. 
  
  Smash Bros. Brawl has its flaws, it isn't the deepest combat out there, while most characters are 
 balanced there are overpowered characters, the single player experience is average, the online 
 MP isn't fleshed out enough. However the content, the core gameplay being fantastic, creative level 
 designs, fun weapons, final smash moves, huge roster, a solid online, and so many unlockables to 
 shoot for makes Brawl the best multiplayer game on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ms-fable
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  Super smash bros. brawl is the best wii game so far. Some may think it's galaxy but I say it's 
 not because once you beat galaxy with mario and luigi it stops being fun like sure you will probably 
 play it in a couple of years saying "Wow" but Brawl is something you can play every day for a year 
 and a half and still like it. The new subspace Emissary is an amazing new feature very fun but 
 very annoying to complete 100% Claasic is same as in melee. if the reason you bought brawl was 
 for the multiplayer so that you could play as any of the big N guys or sonic or snake and kick 
 some butt then you will be very happy because it's fun as hell. The character roster is good with 
 35 characters but we were promised more then 40 and they put snake and R. O. B. In it and no mega 
 man or Bowser jr. but it still is pretty good. I love almost all the stages so I gave this game... 
 a 
  9.7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowLaguna
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. first amazed gamers back in 1999, when the original made it's debut on the Nintendo 
 64. Then, as a not quite launch title in 2001, Super Smash Bros. Melee hit the Nintendo GameCube, 
 with huge improvements from the original and many new features. For almost a decade now, this unbelievable 
 collision of Nintendo series has amazed and entertained not just Nintendo gamers, but any gamer. 
 It is now the year 2008, and a new Smash Bros. game is upon us. It's time..... to BRAWL!!!!
  
  I've always been amazed with the formula of the series. I've always thought of it being a brilliant 
 idea for a bunch of characters from different series to collide. Of course, Super Smash Bros. is 
 an example. Ever wanted to play as Mario and beat the ever loving crap out of Samus? Now you can! 
 Many Nintendo worlds collide like Mario, Zelda, Pokemon, Metroid, Star Fox, Fire Emblem, Kirby, 
 and so many more!! Third party characters have also been introduced into SSBB, as Snake and Sonic 
 make playable appearances.
  
  Gameplay's as good as always. When you first pop in the disc and play Classic Mode, you won't be 
 seeing much difference from the previous installments. Despite this, it's still as entertaining 
 as it was before. Classic Mode is a good way to start the game though, because it will get you 
 some more characters and many of the easy trophies. Classic Mode is pretty much just like any Arcade 
 Mode in a fighting game. You'll fight different people every round, and when you beat someone, 
 you go on to fight another person, and the Master Hand is always at the end to try and stop you. 
 Sounds familiar huh? This was also the main mode in the original Smash Bros. which is presumably 
 why it's called Classic Mode.
  
  There's also a new mode in Super Smash Bros. Brawl. This replaces the short, 15-minute Adventure 
 Mode from Melee and has been completely transformed into a 7 hour Adventure Mode. This is called 
 The Subspace Emissary. There's a proper story in it this time, and depending on what part of the 
 SSE you're up to, you can only be certain characters. On the way, you'll be able to meet new characters 
 and get them to join your party. Characters can even be unlocked via the SSE when they join you. 
 Gameplay in the SSE isn't too bad. It's all side-scrolling, like typical SSB gameplay, but it's 
 got adventure and SSE enemies to try and stop you in your tracks. Of course there will be intense 
 bosses here and there, including some that you might recognise from other Nintendo masterpieces. 
 The gameplay isn't too bad, but it can be a slight pain sometimes, though I was one of the few 
 who found it enjoyable. There's also Co-Op this time around, so you'll be able to play through 
 it with a friend. The cutscenes in the SSE are very well done and are very entertaining. Many have 
 said that they're the highlights of the SSE. Overall, the SSE isn't too bad.
  
  Super Smash Bros. is also well known from it's multiplayer. The Brawl mode is very addictive, and 
 is also a good way of unlocking stuff. But there isn't just Offline Multiplayer this time.... that's 
 right!! Online play via WFC is available, and you are able to Brawl others worldwide! However, 
 the whole friend code system is very irritating, and I can never understand why Nintendo does this. 
 It always has to have a digit code of a whole bunch of numbers, and you aren't even informed when 
 somebody adds you. So you have to tell them yourself. I'm also quite disappointed with the Stranger 
 Matches. Nobody ever fights me in Stranger Matches. However, these are my only complaints with 
 the Online service, and the rest is very good. Once you get some contacts, you're all good.
  
  There are also many other modes in SSBB. Quite a few of them come from SSBM, such as Home Run 
 Contest, Multi-Man and All-Star. I'm quite happy with the improvements for the HR Contest. There's 
 a barrier around the pedestal this time, so you can deal a lot more damage to the sandbag (Co-Op 
 and online are also available with this mode) . Multi-Man "Brawl" isn't any different from Multi 
 Man "Melee" except for the newly added Co-Op. This pretty much explains SSBB's All-Star mode. I'm 
 quite disappointed with Break the Targets this time around though. In SSBM, Break the Targets was 
 different with every character. In SSBB, there are only difficulty levels, and only five difficulties.
 
  
  The character roster is pretty good. The default selection of characters are pretty good, with 
 a lot of new characters to choose from at the beginning. Then, there are quite a few new unlockable 
 characters to choose from. There are some brilliant additions like Meta Knight, Ike, Snake, Sonic, 
 Pit, Lucario and Toon Link. It's also quite surprising to be able to play as Snake and Sonic, as 
 they are third party characters. It shows that third party characters are now available in the 
 Smash Bros. series. Hopefully in the next installment, there will be more old-school goodies.
 
  
  There are four ways to play Super Smash Bros. Brawl. The most common and best way to play is with 
 the Nintendo GameCube controller. You can also use the Wii Remote and Nunchuk, which I don't like 
 at all; it feels silly and has no motion sensors at all. There's the Wii remote on it's side, that 
 ain't too bad. There's also the Classic Controller, which I don't own.
  
  Then there's the Vault section. Here, you can view trophies won, view screenshots and replays taken, 
 build a stage, play Virtual Console trials and also view a list of games released on Nintendo consoles. 
 In Brawl, you can create your own stages. It's a neat little feature. I've made a few of my own 
 stages and there are some great options. Backgrounds are unfortunately limited, but the rest is 
 very good. You can choose the size of the stage, and you can also choose the song of the stage 
 out of any of the songs you have unlocked thus far. It doesn't take too long to make a good stage 
 either. Unfortunately, these stages cannot be used online, but you can still send them to people 
 you've added. You can even send it in to Nintendo, and if they like it then they will feature it 
 for the daily downloads.
  
  Another feature in the vault i'd like to mention is the masterpieces. It's a neat little feature 
 which allows you to play trials of some of the Virtual Console titles which feature SSB characters. 
 Examples of games in the section are Super Mario Brothers, Ice Climber, Kid Icarus, The Legend 
 of Zelda, Super Metroid and Lylat Wars. Of course, you can even unlock some more masterpieces. 
 The only issue I have with some of the trials is that they can sometimes be too short.
  
  The graphics are excellent, especially for a Wii game. They actually made effort to improve the 
 graphics a lot from Melee. It ain't just the cinematics which are brilliant, but the gameplay graphics 
 too. The characters look quite a lot different from their original games, and they did very well 
 with them. It's very detailed, and by far the best graphics I've seen on the Nintendo Wii.
  
  The sound is.... epic! So many tracks available in Brawl, and quite a lot of them you won't 
 be getting sick of either. Some songs are even original recordings, so you'll be hearing some very 
 good songs from the past. Many excellent composers are responsible for these brilliant songs, making 
 Brawl a VG music heaven!!
  
  Wow, what a game! Super Smash Bros. Brawl improves from Melee in many ways!! It's very addictive, 
 and is definitely a game to remember. It is the best game available on the Wii.... so what are you 
 waiting for? Buy it for God's Sake!!
  9.7/10
  
  MUST BUY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AoiSora603
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 12:32 am PT
Review:  Newcomers and veterans, welcome! Here, you'll find familiar characters and familiar moves, but 
 an all new style!
  
  The roster is the biggest yet, with interesting newcomers, such as Sonic the Hedgehog and Solid 
 Snake. There are in general fewer cloned characters, but there's still a couple floating around. 
 Note that there are many different control schemes, so you can choose which one feels most comfortable 
 to you: Wiimote and Nunchuck, sideways Wiimote, Gamecube Controller, or Classic Controller.
  
  This game stands above previous Smash Bros. games in numerous areas. Not only are there more 
 characters to choose from and many interesting stages to battle on, but there are many new gameplay 
 elements that make this title shine.
  
  First, is the Smash Ball. The Smash Ball is a multi-colored ball that floats around the screen. 
 Attack it, and it will break, and the one who lands the breaking blow begins to glow. If you tap 
 B, you'll unleash your super smash attack! Each of the characters has a super smash unique to them 
 (well... mostly unique... the cloned characters being the exception) . They can be devastating to 
 your opponents, or just help you get a leg-up on them. Look out for some of them though. Some characters 
 require that opponents be within a certain vicinity in order to work properly. Super Smash Attacks 
 can easily turn the tide in a fight.
  
  This game takes the Adventure mode to an all-new level! Enter the Subspace Emissary. In addition 
 to the side-scrolling action seen in the single-player mode of previous Smash titles, this one 
 features a storyline with lengthy cutscenes. You'll spend many hours playing through this mode, 
 unlocking all of the characters and playing your way to the end of the story.
  
  It almost seems that with each iteration of this franchise, it just gets better and better, until 
 you finally end up with this game. They've just about got it perfect in this nice little package. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrHodgesComics
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2008 11:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is cool.
  LIKE... BETTER THAN ANYTHING IN THE WORLD!!! This game is cool.
  LIKE... BETTER THAN ANYTHING IN THE WORLD!!! This game is cool.
  LIKE... BETTER THAN ANYTHING 
 IN THE WORLD!!! This game is cool.
  LIKE... BETTER THAN ANYTHING IN THE WORLD!!! This game is cool.
  LIKE... BETTER THAN ANYTHING 
 IN THE WORLD!!! This game is cool.
  LIKE... BETTER THAN ANYTHING IN THE WORLD!!! This game is cool.
  LIKE... BETTER THAN ANYTHING 
 IN THE WORLD!!! This game is cool.
  LIKE... BETTER THAN ANYTHING IN THE WORLD!!! This game is cool.
  LIKE... BETTER THAN ANYTHING 
 IN THE WORLD!!! This game is cool.
  LIKE... BETTER THAN ANYTHING IN THE WORLD!!! This game is cool.
  LIKE... BETTER THAN ANYTHING 
 IN THE WORLD!!! This game is cool.
  LIKE... BETTER THAN ANYTHING IN THE WORLD!!! This game is cool.
  LIKE... BETTER THAN ANYTHING 
 IN THE WORLD!!! This game is cool.
  LIKE... BETTER THAN ANYTHING IN THE WORLD!!! This game is cool.
  LIKE... BETTER THAN ANYTHING 
 IN THE WORLD!!! This game is cool.
  LIKE... BETTER THAN ANYTHING IN THE WORLD!!! This game is cool.
  LIKE... BETTER THAN ANYTHING 
 IN THE WORLD!!! This game is cool.
  LIKE... BETTER THAN ANYTHING IN THE WORLD!!! This game is cool.
  LIKE... BETTER THAN ANYTHING 
 IN THE WORLD!!! This game is cool.
  LIKE... BETTER THAN ANYTHING IN THE WORLD!!! This game is cool.
  LIKE... BETTER THAN ANYTHING 
 IN THE WORLD!!! This game is cool.
  LIKE... BETTER THAN ANYTHING IN THE WORLD!!! This game is cool.
  LIKE... BETTER THAN ANYTHING 
 IN THE WORLD!!!
  -DrHodges 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreak4400
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo fans listen up cause it's one of the greatest Nintendo games this year! with super smash 
 brawl you get melee with new characters , features , and any thing else you can imagine. great 
 game! it's like you died and went to wii heaven. even though it's harder than melee it's worth 
 more than you'll pay. some new characters are snake, sonic, falco, wario and so many more! with 
 the new feature sub space you can go across many levels and play through a story with all the Nintendo 
 characters from brawl in it! you can win all new trophies too! but thats not all! you can play 
 former nintendo games like the old super mario bros or star fox 64! a thing you can do in brawl 
 that you can't do in melee is you can make your own stages to play! go wi fi with your friends 
 to fight fierce battle. i would recommend this for all mario and nintendo fans with the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Catreeca
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  I have had this game for only roughly 6 days and I am amazed at everything, the graphics, the game 
 play, the characters EVERY THIING! It's like it's god designed it for us, there is a character 
 for every one from Mario lovers to Sonic lovers from Solid Snake loves to Star Fox lovers, and 
 the ability to do more then only one taunt is great, you have three to choose from, from a fan 
 like me thats a wide prospective, e. g. you are Sonic and you just KOed the other guy (with Wii 
 remote and Numchuck) press 1 for Sonic to do a quick sort of flip, 2 for him to do a mini break 
 dance move and says "come on, step it up!" or push both for a third taunt of Sonic running on the 
 spot really fast and saying "your to slow" I enjoy his taunts and other characters so if you hear 
 people saying it's a waste of time, do not trust them, take it from me, it's a good no awesome 
 game and most likely not going to be another game like it for a long time, worth the wait? You 
 betcha! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ppshterror827
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Well, have you heard the hype? You know, that stuff that says this is one of the best games ever? 
 Well, if you did then they are..... TOTALLY RIGHT!!! This is the single best game you will ever 
 play on the Wii! Everything about this game is awesome except one thing I'll mention later. Now, 
 a basic summary:
  
  Gameplay: 9.9/10 Not much to say. You should already know.
  
  Sound: 9.9/10 Pure greatness. It feels appropriately explosive whenever you send your opponents 
 blasting off the screen at Mach 10, the soundtrack is full of all your favorite game soundtracks 
 such as a few from Super Metroid, Mario, Chrono Trigger, even Sonic the Hedgehog!
  
  Graphics: 9.0/10 Some edges are jagged, but most things are sharp and crystal clear.
  
  Single 
 Player: -10/10 The Subspace Emissary ****ing sucks. They could have improved on a lot of things 
 like, oh I don't know, maybe, MAKING IT ACTUALLY FUN?!? This is the one blemish in the otherwise 
 shining jewel that is Smash Bros.
  
  Multi Player: 10/10 It was designed for this! This part just rocks. Just turn off all items.
 
  
  Online: 2/10 Yeah...... This was hyped up too much to turn out to be the ultimate adventure in 
 lag land. I hit the attack button, wait 10 seconds, then my character attacks. What's up with that?
 
  
  Overall: 999999^999999^999999/10 Bad Single Player doesn't stop this from being the best game ever. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLuFAlc0n
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl, is probably one of the most anticipated games ever made, and has always 
 been awesome,!! Originaly came out for N64 Super Smash Bros., contained the eight original characters, 
 Mario, DK, Link, Samus, Yoshi, Kirby, Fox and PIKACHU. Basicaly, it is a Nintendo brawler masterpice, 
 inventive kind of fighting, unlike others that has a lifebar, this one focuses on ring-outs, as 
 the main game is 'to knock off' the characters, off-screen!!, after the release of the N64 version 
 (8 characters - 4 unlockables) , they released a sequel for the Gamecube, Super Smash Bros. Melee 
 (15 characters - 11 unlockables) became the best-selling fighting game ever in the world, (even 
 beating soul calibur and tekken) and the best-selling game for the Gamecube. Now, they have released 
 Super Smash Bros. Brawl for the Wii, (21 Characters - 14 Unlockables) the first fighting game that 
 includes Mario and Sonic in the same game, with Nintendo, Sega and Konami, a super legend game 
 that is perfect in any way, a legend continues through the Wii.
  The Graphics is sharp and clean, everything is detailed, and very good, even the characters, whatever 
 IGN said about ''an enchanced version of melee'', well the graphics surpassed melee, everything 
 works out right, characters became 2d in flat zone, very inventive backgrounds and all the characters, 
 is great. When it comes to presentation, nothing, seriously NOTHING!! can beat this game, it has 
 awesome music that is so original, not even GTA 4 can compare to. Sounds, ehm, yeah, whatever happends 
 in the sound category, this game has surpassed the 'Perfect' rating when it comes to sounds, they 
 should just give the crown to this game for the sound of the year, if not, the century, if not, 
 the millenium, this game is packed with 36 different composers, the music are just pure legendary 
 110%, it is seriously very good, when they made a soundtrack for this game, it will be made with 
 lots of CD, and can be sold within millions!!!!
  Gameplay, right, it's complete and friendly, for everyone, anyone can actually play this game, 
 it comes of 4 different kind of control style, Wii only, Wii and Nunchuck, Classic, and the best 
 control method, the Gamecube controller. If you own SSBM, and a veteran through the game, the Gamecube 
 controler is seriosly highly recommended, because it will be the best way of playing it, if not, 
 use any kind, it is so basic and everyone can win, from noobs - pro's, the player will only need 
 these two skills in the game, earn it, keep it, train it and perfect it, 'skill and luck', it has 
 so much gameplay, and it is greatly inventive, especially the weapons, assist trophies, pokeballs, 
 and everyone's favourite, the final smash, evryone fights for that item just to use it's great 
 power, it's style is seriously legendary and effective, with awesome action sequence that looks 
 super slick, everyone can do it, it has online as well, you can play with friends, anyone, and 
 even watch online matches!! collect stickers and trophies, and one of the best features, taking 
 photos from the game, save matches, and even creating your own background. The game is just perfect, 
 and complete, normally, Wii games feels that something's missing when you play on them, this one 
 is different, this one has that 'something' in the the game, and that something is, ..... (hard 
 to explain) it has 35 different characters (not including Shiek, Zero Suit Samus, and the pokemon 
 trainer, s different pokemon) Although perfect, it has a major impact of problem in the game, first 
 of all, Roy, where did he go!!!!, he's my best character, they removed him, I hope they made some 
 sort of update for the game to include him, and secondly, my background, Fountain of Dreams, oh 
 sure, they put Green Greens instead, and Fountain of Dreams has way better music!!! But these problem 
 was saved By Ike, an awesome character, with his 'GREAT AETHER!!!' and the dramatic entry in adventure 
 mode, lol, and the Fountain of Dreams' music made it into Brawl, although I am seriously struggling 
 of getting it, and tthey took off Mario's tornado into a useless FLUDD that doesn't even make damage, 
 instead, they made his tornado as a smash attack in mid-air, but anyway, Overall, it's still super 
 cool, and GTA4 can't even beat this game, this had 40/40 from famitsu, and this game deserved a 
 10, there really has nothing wrong in the game, and it's great fun!!!
  
  Goods/ +
  Legendary Graphics
  Legendary x2 Gameplay
  Super Legendary xInfinite Music
  Awesome Intro
 
  Very great cutscenes in Adventure Mode, my fav. is Donkey Kong and diddy kong entry, Ike's entry 
 and R. O. B entry (feels dramatic)
  Unlimited Unlockables
  Unlimited Secrets
  'Snake in shadow moses island and fox, falco and wolf in Lylat Cruise'.
  Lots and Lots of good 
 points
  Has mini games
  It's more than a Fighting game
  Online is really great
  A lot to do
  You will be stuck to it 24/7
  Better in limited edition
  At least Roy's in the 
 game
  A lot of supreme music from opening, to menu, to the main game
  Free demos, of Masterpieces
  MGS4 theme of Love music was in here before in MGS4
  Millions 
 of good points that won't fit in the 'Goods' list
  Also you will notice that it somehow plays like a normal Kirby game in adventure mode.
  
  
 
  Bads/ -
  Roy isn't a playable character
  Fountain of Dreams isn't a background
  *The two above are only bad point's for me because I'm undefeated at Fountain of Dreams, with using 
 Roy
  
  Takes ages to load as it's the first dual disk wii game.
  Enemies in adventure mode looks like Kirby enemies, lol
  
  
  
  Gameplay/ Innovation - 10/10
 
  Graphics - 10/10
  Sounds - 10/10
  Value - 10/10
  Presentation - 10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brysterdude
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  My goodness, before it came out, I was making lists of who might be in it. Well all the winners 
 of course. The veterans, the newbies, and the in between who were in Melee. 
  
  And excellent mix of characters and a co-op story mode provides tremendous fun for multiple players 
 to get in on the action.
  
  Excellent for parties, everyone can play because it's not to hard or to easy, it appeals to everyone. 
 With the mix of characters old and new, and the levels are very extravagant. 
  
  You can also create your own levels, but I would've liked a little more choice and freedom with 
 it though. So that's only half as cool as I would've thought.
  
  With four people playing and the options of multiple games you can do and Wi-Fi battles (Which 
 lags... A lot) . There's no end to how fun this game can be, But you really got to be the best, 
 or you'll get creamed... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naico
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  The Super Smash brothers series has always been a revolutionary experience. Brawl is no different. 
 Incorporating everything that made the previous two games brilliant, and taking it to a new level, 
 as well as throwing in new features to compliment it, make this one of the greatest games ever 
 made.
  
  Single-player has a variety of modes you can choose between, some of which must be unlocked. Classic 
 mode is your basic "choose a character, smash things, win" set-up, and allows you to get your first 
 set of character trophies. All-star mode becomes available once you unlock all 35 characters, and 
 can be played with a friend. Its more of an endurance challenge, having to fight all 35 characters 
 in a row, with limited healing items.
  
  The Subspace emissary is a fantastic game-mode. Whilst relatively short, even on the Intense difficulty 
 setting, it provides an interesting twist to the Smash Bros. Series; a Plot. As I said above, its 
 very short, but can provide a couple of hours of enjoyment (with a friend if you want) .
  
  But Brawl really shines in its group modes. The default Brawl is a fantastic mode, which lets you 
 play with up to 3 of your friends, and if you don't have enough friends around at one time, you 
 can put in CPU controlled opponents to brawl with, with 9 levels of difficulty.
  
  Online play is a refreshing new feature. You can play with friends or with anyone. All names are 
 hidden, which can be both a blessing and a curse. 
  
  The stage builder is a great little addon, which allows you to make your own stages. They are quite 
 basic, having no events, but its great none-the-less. In addition, you can now save replays and 
 snapshots. A handy little function that many use.
  
  The online Smash Service provides you with 1 new stage, replay and snapshot everyday, giving something 
 new to try each day.
  
  Overall, Smash Bros. Brawl is one of the greatest games ever made. It has massive replay value, 
 and its unpredictability means no two matches are the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ash10692
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  OK, I was excited about this game for months, and I'll try not to let that mar my review.
  Super Smash Bros was one of my favourite games on the N64, because despite it's flaws, it had a 
 charm that no other game at the time could duplicate. I missed out on Melee, for some reason... 
 but when I found out that a new game entitled Brawl, featuring over 30 characters, was in the pipeline 
 I was really anticipating it. Japanese release... US release... Us UK gamers had to watch 2 other 
 countries get Brawl while we waited, or bought a freeloader. So the delay was an absolute pain. 
 But, now we have it, and what a game it is. 
  The Super Smash Bros mechanic for the most part remains unchanged. Attack your enemy until they 
 are so damaged that you can knock them off the screen to knock them out, which gets you a point. 
 Being KO'ed yourself loses you a point. It's simple as that really.
  Old modes like the Classic mode and Brawl mode remain unchanged, but new modes like All Star and 
 Subspace Emissary mix up the package and give the game a real wealth of modes and gameplay.
  The online mode however, can be laggy, if you can even find a match at all and this definitely 
 needs to be improved on, either with a patch or in the next installment.
  But overall this game is grea value for money, 35 characters, 41 stages, around 250 other unlockables 
 and countless trophies and stickers, for the 30 asking price, you can't go too far wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spade_Crisis
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  The start of it all was Super Smash Bros. for the N64. Followed by Melee for the Gamecube. Both 
 were really great! Then came what really made SSB the most popular in the series. Super Smash Bros 
 Brawl makes its way to the Wii.
  
  Story-There is a seperate Story Mode called the Subspace Emissary, where you play as your favorite 
 Nintendo Character saving the planet from the dreaded Subspace. Like most Nintendo Titles, the 
 story is textless, meaning that the character's action do the talking.
  
  Gameplay-The gameplay is simple, really. You just hit your opponents as much as you can. Get there 
 percentage high enough and knock em' out the stage! Its simple 2 attack buttons make this game 
 playable for both newcomers and veterans.
  
  Multiplayer-The multiplayer is where is really begins. For some people,
  playing CPUs can get 
 annoying because you think there too 'easy.' That's the Multiplayer's job. Fighting friends is 
 much more exciting. Whether your in Brawl or in the Subspace, its always good to have friends
 
  
  Graphics-Graphics are absolutely amazing. Detailed combat and characters make the game really spark! 
 Cutscenes are in full 3-D, too. So, when you play this game, enjoy every moment of the nice graphics.
 
  
  Music-What really makes SSBB glow is the music. Thia is my favorite part in the game because it 
 shows how the orchestra plays. Yes, that's right. No annoying beeps and pinging sounds. Just the 
 beautiful beauty of what music really means. Each song is played by the orchestra, making each 
 level peace to the ears.
  
  Extras-Taking snapshots makes a great feature for those "HOLY S**T!!" moments. Capture your amazing 
 moves with the picture and show it to friends. Another great feature is the Stage Builder, unleashing 
 your creative ideas and making it into a stage. 
  
  Flaws-I found no flaws, whatsoever, in this game.
  
  Conclusion-Super Smash Bros. Brawl is 
 a great game for both newcomers and veterans. It combines unique, creative features that make the 
 game great! Music, gameplay, graphics, everything in the game is simply amazing and hard to describe 
 at times. SSBB is a great single/multiplayer that will make you keep coming back for more, for 
 years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomWarrior69
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is my favorite game for the Wii so far. It is amazingly great. The new 
 characters such as Meta Knight and Pokemon Trainer are great. Also, you can use asmash ball 
to use a final smash. Just about all the character's final smashes are great. It is fun to use, 
 but difficult to get when you play with four people ! The classic mode is great just like the past 
 two. The graphics are amazing for a game for the Nintendo Wii. The gameplay is fun and even better 
 with four people. Wi-Fi is also fun with more than two people playing. The Sub Space Emissary ( 
 story mode) is alright but it could have been better. I play this game a lot and I keep unlocking 
 more stuff. What's also great is that it has the old levels from Super Smash Bros. Melee. This 
 game is should be game of the year. It has great graphics, amazing gameplay, easy controls, and a 
 good story mode. I enjoy playing this game everytime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dehearik_nova
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  Many players will remember Super Smash Bros Melee which hit the Gamecube in 2002, many of those 
 player filled with tension of when a sequel would be released. Finally , 6 years later we have 
 the long awaited sequel and it completely furfills every expectation. The new feature of the subspace 
 embassy is a brilliant fun, action packed delight. The only letdown however is the heavy lag online 
 and hopefully Nintendo will try and fix this. A roster of 35 characters, mostly each of them being 
 unique with the exciting new feature of final smashes, some being stronger than others yet still, 
 the look of them awes the player. Also assist trophies turn the tables in battle and some of them, 
 making the player remember old games which were enjoyed. Overall this game is worth the wait, plus 
 gives more to the player than the player even expected, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_atlantican
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 4:31 am PT
Review:  Whats the matter scared!?
  
  Super Smash Bros Brawl was one of the highly anticipated games of 2008 and it delivers everything 
 that it set out to..... and more!
  
  Super Smash Bros Brawl is a unique game. It's different from it's predecessors and one of the main 
 differences is The Subspace Emissary: A story mode in which the player must complete a variety 
 of challenging levels and battles to save the world from subspace. This mode has a great feature 
 that any fan of the Smash Bros series will enjoy; it has cut-scenes in which the characters interact 
 with each other! It may sound minor but for a fan of the series this is a great feature.
  The games multiplayer online mode is very good; the player can play with their friends or anyone 
 else in team battles or a flat-out brawl, and it hardly ever lags!
  The game is full of new features including: characters, stages, game modes, single player and an 
 online feature.
  
  The graphics are good for a Wii game; meaning they are cartoonish and turn up well on screen.
 
  The games sound quality is very good; they work well with the gameplay and as an added feature, 
 each character talks through the Wii remote when you select them. Cool hey?
  
  Some of the games downsides are:
  - Online: It sometimes takes a while for the set number of 
 people to join an online game, the set number is usually four players per match and when the set 
 number isnt there a computer player will be added which can become quite annoying.
  - Once you've finished the game that's it: After you have unlocked all the characters and stages 
 thats it, theres no more. Sure you might say: "but i can play it online," but come on! You're saying 
 you can brawl online for months and still have as much fun as you did when you first got the game? 
 I don't think so.
  
  Overall i would reccommend this game to a Wii owner who enjoys thier fighting games, or loves their 
 nintendo characters. In my opinion: its one to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RowCla
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 4:29 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl is like Melee but the characters, stages and items are different of course, 
 the game play is faster, there is a storyline for once and for some strange reason even though 
 it all seems not so good it just is really fun!
  
  But aside from that the graphics are loads better, the new smash is great but some final smashes 
 are way better so its kinda unfair. The stickers are good but in my opinion the files shouldn't 
 share them. The new challenges are good although the target smash times are like impossible to 
 beat, the stage creator feature is quite fun and you can make rather good levels.
  
  The multiplayer for Brawl is great and allows you to choose to do either coin battles stock battles 
 or time battles the Nintendo wi-fi is good and allows you to practice a bit while waiting for other 
 people. And so I do say that I think Brawl Is GREAT!!!!!!! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadygeneral
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 2, 2008 12:51 am PT
Review:  Im probably going to get a lot of hate for that score. 
  The thing is I couldnt bring myself to give a higher rating. Sure technicaly it does everthing 
 right - the sound, graphics, gameplay etc. But my problem is that, it's Melee, but with more characters 
 & stages. Thats it. This will be fantastic news to most. In fact it was for me. But after playing 
 it ive found, no, its not good enough. Especialy seeing as though I played melee to death, I was 
 practicaly bored of it before I even started. 
  
  Sure they've added the scrolling fighter style singleplayer & co-op that you've all probably heard 
 about but its flawed & just not really any fun. The combat doesnt work properly in this context 
 & its frustrating. It also does the age old Nintendo trick of repeating all the levels at the end 
 to add longevity. As well as having to fight all bosses again while working through a tedious maze. 
 
  
  For those who didnt play melee to death or newcomers - its brilliant. The age old, great gameplay 
 is still in tack. Theres literaly hundreds of trophies & unlockables for all the obsessive types 
 out there that will have them playing for months, maybe even years. 
  
  TBH I dont know what I was expecting from it. If they changed anything I wouldnt have been happy 
 but in keeping everything so similar its earned my contempt. I guess they couldnt have made me 
 happy either way & its time I called it a day with this series.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Emblem_RD
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 12:06 am PT
Review:  We've waited 7 years from Melee to Brawl, and since then Nintendo has once again beefed up its 
 all star list, its graphics and the overall game, to provide one of the ultimate gaming experiences 
 of the new generation.
  
  Brawl has incorperated several new features into its main structure, the addition of the Subspace 
 Emissary, which provides a 6 hour adventure.
  A truck load of Special Brawling options that although dont actually differ much from Melees version 
 are overall done a lot better.
  
  Another bulls eye was that you are still able to play it like Melee was, which i know i found a 
 truckload easier than with the WiiMote. 4 ways to play, and as the saying says, the more the merrier
 
  
  The sound track has been highly acclaimed, with classical Nintendo Composers along with some other 
 musicians such as the composer for the music for Kingdom Hearts jumping on the wagon.
  
  The graphics are very good and cut scenes are flawless, however short they may be
  
  Sonic 
 and Snake were unveiled some time ago, but i know i; m not the only one who would think that Meta 
 Knight, and Wolf would be added to the roster, some how nintendo surprised us with larger and larger 
 rosters each time.
  
  Nintendo has done a very very good job with Brawl, and it has been worth the wait, good show nintendo, 
 now start on the next one so we dont have to wait so long 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1Wiifan
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 1, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  I've convinced myself that visiting the Dojo is what made me dissappointed in this game. I had 
 played the original Smash Bros. without knowing very much about it and BANG! Perfect! Super Smash 
 Bros. Melee was the the same situation and then there was Brawl. Every ounce of possible information 
 I read... I was constanly on Google. com searching for a possible leaked character list to the game. 
 I wanted to know everything! That was my fault by the time I got the game smashbros. com had told 
 me everything along with the help of other various sites such as... gonintendo, ign, and these gamespot 
 forums. I went into the game knowing everything about it and low and behold walked away dissappointed 
 to the extreme. Of course I dont think I can blame my knowing everything about the game on me being 
 dissappointed. Two things: Subspace and Online Play. Subspace just in one word...'sucks'..... it's 
 just the same thing over and over. As for online play sure... I can play with my friends online 
 with little hassle at all. But when my friends cant play Brawl I'm forced to turn to the anyone 
 aspect of the game. To date i have yet to experience a singel brawl under this anyone online mode. 
 So really the only thing I'm left to enjoy with Brawl is the multiplayer aspect only that hs to 
 be with friends at my house or their respective houses. Thing is when it comes down to it the gameplay 
 feels completly unchanged sure... there are a couple of characters thrown in to change some stratgey... but 
 when it comes down to it it's just not enough... some people may argue..."WHAT ABOUT THE NINTENDO 
 FAN SERVICE HUH!??! YOU FORGOT TO MENTION THAT!!!!" Well... I'm going to mention it now... uh... it 
 really doesnt do much for me. I love Nintendo... but the thing that I love about Nintendo is their 
 games. i dont like looking at all these trophies thinking about how awesome those games were... when 
 I get a Nintendo game.... I want it to be about GAMEPLAY.... this stuff is a nice bonus I suppose... but 
 it seems like any new exciting aspects to the the gameplay werent added because somebody thought 
 I'd rather look at a Paper mario sticker... actually instead of looking at that Paper Mario sticker... I 
 WANT TO PLAY AS HIM! I know this review is extremely unorganized some people may even call me out 
 and say that my review has no merits because... it's not grammitical correct... sorry! Frankly, Brawl 
 is a huge dissappoinment the Smash Bros. series has such a huge impact on my childhood and I for 
 one am shocked that it was unable to continue that impact as I leave my childhood. Oh well... maybe 
 next time... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbox1273
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl can be described in one way, Revolutionary. Why, do you ask, is it revolutionary? 
 Well, to start off, it is not very hard to get used to and is accessible to most video gamers. 
 The control scheme is devilishly easy so you don't always have to look at the menu and see the 
 list of combos like most fighting games. That way, you can make easy fighting strategies. But still, 
 there are many different moves to execute throughout the game. You use the control stick along 
 with the a and b buttons. Well, so the control scheme is easy, so now we will discuss the fighting 
 itself. There are more than 50 stages to choose from, and the stages are quite amazing such as 
 Shadow Moses Island from the Metal Gear Solid series. They are mostly a pleasure to play on. They 
 affect your battle a lot. The frame rate is very good, and the sound is great. The characters for 
 the most part, are pretty good. Most players can develop effective fighting strategies with most 
 characters. A few exceptions, such as Jigglypuff or Ganondorf have virtually no strengths and can't 
 be mastered easily. The fighting is a remarkable multiplayer experience and most of it can't be 
 described because it is so great. The goal is to knock an opponent off the stage, and as such, 
 the battles can be very entertaining. It is mostly fair and is very enjoyable because of the various 
 moves that look great and are mostly fun to use. As you damage an opponent, the damage level goes 
 up and they are easier to knock off the stage. In addition, you can change various settings such 
 as if it is a time battle or stock battle, if you want all bombs or all smash balls, or if you 
 want all people to be huge or tiny. In addition, there is a story mode that takes 10-15 hours to 
 complete and it is basically a 2D platformer. It is quite fun. There are many features, such as 
 a stage builder, soundtracks, target practices, trophies, and so much more. 
  
  
  To put it simply, this is a must buy for the Wii. The jam packed features and the fun battles make 
 it a near-perfect game. It is excellent at get-togethers and fun to play with friends. So, please 
 buy this game because it is very, very, very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KirbyKing
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2008 4:21 am PT
Review:  The first thing to say about Brawl is that it is truely amazing. With so many game modes and characters, 
 you will be playing for years. There are one player modes such as the Subspace Emissary, which 
 is a thrilling story, which has been well made, especially since there is no talking in the entire 
 adventure! Its a big step up from the previous installments 'Adventure' mode, there are also old 
 favorites such as 'multi-man brawl' and 'Break the targets' which have also been vastly improved. 
 In terms of multiplayer, almost everything can be played with a second player in tow, And now the 
 wi-fi feature expands on the fun of multiplayer madness.
  However, this game is not without its faults, and although i think its the best Smash bros yet, 
 i cannot be so generous with my score. One problem that isnt so bad (unless you have no friends) 
 is the CPU. If you have a 4-man brawl with you and three computers, the CPU will always hound the 
 Player. They dont seem to go after you when your a few lives behind but against level 9's its almost 
 like 3 lvl 9's vs you. One way to resolve this is to turn the difficulty down, but then the computer 
 are to easy. Another problem is Final smashes, especially Sonics one. It basicly guarantees death 
 to everyone at least once and possibly twice, and compared to other characters final smashes, its 
 vastly overpowered. I have also found it hard to play online because of the demand. (Damn you Americans, 
 let us have a go!) . However overall this is a fantastic game, Which is better played with human 
 players which are all around the same skill level. The countless game modes will keep you going 
 for years to come, possibly until the next one comes out! (Unless its delayed.)
  Reviewed by
  KirbyKing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whellock
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2009 9:03 am PT
Review:  I didn't have the other 2 Smash Bros. games in the past which were Super Smash Bros. (N64) and 
 Super Smash Bros. Melee (GC) but I've already played them. They were cool to start with but when 
 I started playing it, where the hell is the energy bar? it's on the bottom of the screen and your 
 energy bar is the percentage of damage you get after getting beaten up by your opponent and the 
 objective to that is that you have to beat up your opponent so he will receive plenty of damage. 
 Once you done that you perform a Final Smash attack so you can knock him off the screen.
  
  After waiting 5 months after the Japanese and the American release, Super Smash Bros. Brawl has 
 finally made it to the UK and across Europe. The game itself is similar to the last game Super 
 Smash Bros. Melee but there are more characters than ever. There are 35 characters to choose from 
 including 2 non Nintendo charactes which are unlockable in the game which are Sonic the Hedgehog 
 from Sega and Solid Snake from Knomai's Metal Gear Solid.
  
  In the Subspace Emissary mode the cutscenes of the story are impressive, it show the all characters 
 teaming up together to fight the Subspace army and the ultimate villan Taboo.
  
  The soundtrack to the game is just one of the best ever done in the Super Smash Bros. series and 
 my ultimate favourite is the Final Destination soundtrack where it all comes to the ultimate fighting 
 showdown for a Brawl and the soundtrack to that is Great!
  
  There 4 types of ways to play Super Smash Bros. Brawl and the 3 types of controllers to play the 
 game should be recommended:
  
  Gamecube contoller - 5/5
  Wii Classic controller - 4/5
  Wii Remote - 3/5
  
  But not the Wii remote and Nunchuk together because they don't work out 
 properly
  
  There are some bad points in the game which are:
  
  The design of the barrel blasters in the Subspace Emissary mode are crap and the sound they make 
 are just abysmal.
  
  The use of the word Soccer Ball used as the football as well because I wish for the European version 
 of this game should of renamed it Football not Soccer Ball like the Americans call it.
  
  The online gameplay is great as well but the only problem when you're playing it lags for only 
 a few seconds but the whole thing itself is just brilliant.
  
  During a game of Brawl, when you see the Smash Ball appear, you have to reach up and hitting it 
 a few times. Once you cracked it, you will have the ability to perform a Final Smash attack on 
 your opponents once they see your appearance and you can knock them off the screen really quickly.
 
  
  Overall I recommend this game and it's a definite must buy because Nintendo, HAL Laboratry and 
 Sora have spent 3 years making this game and it's really worth it.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: futtii
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  A game that has been waited for since late 2006, this game is somewhat the best Wii game to date, 
 I honestly think Gamespot gave it the perfect review (9.5) . 
  
  The reason it is not 10.0 is simply because there is no dialog and far too easy. Nintendo made 
 unique ways to unlock chracters but many of the newcomers are already there and no need to be unlocked 
 (Pit, Ike, Metanight, Pokemon Trainer) Which is a dissapointment since unlocking the characters 
 really brings joy to a game!
  The game has not to many characters as the crowd and fans were hoping for, I was quite dissapointed 
 to see that there are only 14 unlockables but then again there were many chracters which hadn't 
 needed any unlocking whatsoever.
  Overall the fighting system and the gameplay is amazing! Multiplayer is crazy! Just great and the 
 graphics are above Wii quality.
  
  Thanks for reading my review!
  9.5 it is.
  Phill
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mushroomyminion
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  I never was into the Super Smash Bros. franchise. But when I saw all the publicity Brawl was getting 
 I got interested. My friend had Melee and I enjoyed that game very much. Later while I pondered 
 my choice of game my OTHER friend bought Brawl! We both agree on this: Brawl is the best thing 
 to play for summer!!! There are alot of new features that make Brawl worth the price tag and more!!!
 
  Make your own stages in Stage Builder! From Spikes to Ice, you'll be enjoying every piece of the 
 game here! Choose from all kinds of floors, structures, and features along with background, music, 
 and size!!! Save to your SD card and share with your friends!
  Dozens of characters, newcomers and olds. You still have Mario, Kirby, and all of the others but 
 the newcomers include Metaknight from Kirby, Samus from Metroid, Sonic from SONIC THE HEDGEHOG, 
 and much much more. All of your favorites are here for the Brawl!!!
  New stages, new items, new trophies, same theme. Super Smash Bros. Brawl is the best one of the 
 series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason2guy
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2008 6:51 am PT
Review:  We've played the old Smash Bros then there came Melee then there came Brawl. Brawl was the best 
 of those 3 with GREAT online and offline multiplayer and new features in the game such as the new 
 weapons (smash ball) . There are tons of characters to choose from eg. Meta Knight, Ike, and more! 
 There are also tons of stages on the game which clearly states that this game is worth the value! 
 The bad thing about this gme is that a frequent times I go online it laggs and it starts to annoy 
 me every time it does that because I don't get a good battle. And who knows it could be someone 
 from Japan! 
  
  Advantages- VERY fun multiplayer, a lot of value to the game so you won't waste your money, fun 
 campaign and coop mode, fun characters to use during battle, and fun bosses to battle during campaign, 
 custom videos and stages. You'll never get bored of this game it ROCKS!!!!!!
  
  The only disadvantage would just be the lagg during online play. If this problem was fixed I would've 
 rated this game perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostchessy
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Ok to start of with i'm British and at the time of writing (Sunday the 29th) smash has only been 
 out for 3 days and it is stupid at the fact that i know the entire rooster. i could rant at the 
 fact that Nintendo has been stupid in that the delay between the Japanese and Europe release has 
 been nearly a year it makes me think has Nintendo been lazy. 
  
  although the overall experience of super smash brothers brawl has been worth the hype and the ever 
 pissing off delays i still come to decision that Nintendo although it is been a brilliant job is 
 to be blunt worse than what everyone is saying it to be
  
  however i will not be depressed for the mo and will look at all that is good in smash 
  
  - 
 bigger set of fighters 
  - tons to do for both solo and multi
  - sub space emissary was a bold and interesting step for Nintendo 
  - snakes appearance 
  - 
 stage builder
  - the fact that captain falcon was not removed
  - removal of some clones
  
  and heres basically all thats wrong and what Nintendo has ether "rushed" on or shouldn't have 
 bothered with and why (smash fans may look away now and skip to the end of this review)
  
  - Online multilayer - sure multilayer is fun but really only when your friends are around shouting 
 at each other. the drama made by this to beat them for there reactions is the brilliant thing. 
 not seeing player reactions makes it like fighting a CPU and the friend code system just ruins 
 it completely. getting a fight would be rare
  - Some characters are unbalanced out of proportions not in just overpowered but in under - take 
 this for an example. all though buffed a little since melee peach is still a "being easy on someone 
 poor skilled" character. in fact Nintendo thought people would not play as her so much theres a 
 challenge to win as peach five times THATS RIGHT there is a challenge . go on fire up smash and 
 check! (not an event the vault part with the squares in) also sonic (i will rant lot more later 
 with that mutant) has been overpowered in thought that he would be accepted by making him impossible 
 to kill by a fall or side less he has a 200% by his good jumping and that bloody spring not to 
 mention he is medium weight and actually quite strong. 
  -changes in classic mode - not to fussy on this part but the idea of "classic" is it is perfect 
 and doesn't need changing. not in Nintendo's book so they throw out race to the Finnish and change 
 the length of the mode (possibly to increase game time) and also as far as im aware after finishing 
 very hard (although he may show in intense) no sign of a good idea from ninty in the form of crazy 
 hand. 
  - Sonic doesn't belong here - this is a slightly hypocritical statement cause i said snake was 
 a good one but the thing is snake isn't Mario arch nemesis that he hasn't took on in Olympic sports 
 and was a pleasant surprise. the arrival of sonic was just pointless and proves that ether ninty 
 or sega is in a financial crisis to allow such an abomination to even be considered into such a 
 thing. it was still good to kill him though
  - too easy to get the characters - one of the achievements was unlocking all of the characters 
 in melee as it was actually a time consuming feat like lvl 70 in wow how ever in brawl on play 
 of SSE pretty much gets you EVERY character and if you go on to certain levels you can get the 
 rest so the hole essence of doing challenges getting high scores etc has been trashed.
  - clone characters - Nintendo did say they were going to get rid of clone characters (flaco and 
 fox, pichu and pikachu) . this in both good and bad did not happen although some have been removed 
 (riddens pichu no one loved you) most have remained. to make matters worse there are more clones! 
 just see the new earth bound and as much as you use your realm altering powers, lucario although 
 cool is a clone of mewtwo (who should have been in brawl stupid ninty) and wolf!? ok good to see 
 him but next time UNIQUE moves not modified so the reflector moves or there tougher
  
  OK rant mode off. smash fans can look now xD 
  
  to be blunt brawl is marmite and im one of 
 those freaks thats actually in the middle. although im a master of the game now Nintendo is starting 
 to ruin the franchise if there were more frequent releases (like most Mario games) it would be 
 understandable for some changes 
  
  ultimately though before the annoyance and after there is love for this game. whenever solo or multilayer 
 it is a barrel of fun and i hope this review does not put doubt into peoples mind. enjoy your brawl 
 responsibly 
  
  (go to the challenges and in the vault to unlock super Mario bros two you must win as peach five 
 times -honest!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daveyx0
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  This is just the best game for the Wii! The combination of fighting and platform is amazing! 
 
  Some changes with Melee:
  - The adventure mode is now called The Subspace Emissary. It`s a lot bigger than before and there 
 is a story line included now. Don`t forget to play it twice for some extra`s! 
  - There is no trophy machine any more. Now there is a Coin Launcher where you can use coins to 
 launch at targets and trophies. This way you will get trophy`s and stickers. Try to get over 250 
 trophies! 
  - There also is a Stage Builder in Brawl! You can build your own stages and transfer them to other 
 Wii`s! You can get some new parts to. Try to build some classic stages to get a high impression 
 from others.
  - You can play almost every mode (Not Classic Mode) with two players! Like the Co-op events, Target 
 Test and Homerun Contest. 
  - There is one new kind of attack. It is called The Final Smash which is very powerfull. If you 
 opened a Smash Ball your character will glow. If you press B it will attack with it`s Final Smash 
 which is different for every character (eccept for the two Links and the Star Fox characters) . 
 
  With 25 + 12 characters to play with and 24 + 8 + 9 + 3 stages this game is just fantastic for 
 many ages. You can`t miss it! I can amagine that there are people that buy a Wii because of Brawl. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: starf0x999
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 7:15 am PT
Review:  First of al, I'd like to say that SSBB is the best multiplayer game for Wii. There are so many 
 different brawls to chose from, and so many different options you can put on, it never gets old. 
 However, the single player, while having an okay story, gets repetitive, especially in the Great 
 Maze, which takes up like five hours of the eight hour story. And the online, unless you're playing 
 with friends, sorta stinks. You can only do 2 mintue brawls, and it's like you're fighting robots. 
 But all in all, SSBB rocks, and if you don't get it , you don't know what Wii multiplayer is.
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa a a a a a a asd asd asd asd asd asd as das da 
 sda sd as da sd as das as d as a d a sa sd s as ds a sd sa s ds a sd asasasd asdasd asdasdasdasd 
 asdasdasda asdasdasda asdasadasdad asdasdsasds asdasdasdad asdasdasda asdasdasda asdasdasad asdasdasda 
 asdasdasda asdasdasda asdasdasdaswdasdsasdasd asdsasdasd asdasdasdad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrcwood
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  I wasn't a big fan of melee at the time it can out, i found it reali fustrating and sometime anoying. 
 But as time went on my liking of diferent games changed i've come to give super smash a 2nd chance 
 and it has passed with flying colours :) .
  
  Its so much fun! awesome for mulityplayer and single player now has the subspace adventrue gives 
 the game a reali cool storymode which involves all the characters fighting along side each other 
 to save the world? lol
  
  The roster is big! nearly most of the nintendo universe but not all but its still good! not as 
 many doubles this time whihc is good cos it was poo on melee when u had young link and adult link, 
 mario and Dr. mario, pikachu and pichu was just pointless!
  
  The new final smash is cool! its hard tho to get it tho, cos when it come on the screen u got to 
 break and it hard cos everyone goes for it! every man for themselves! lol.
  
  Theirs hundereds of trophies and stickers to collect! u can find them while u fight or u can play 
 the coin machine game! Its a little mini game where u use the coins u win by doing classic/SSE 
 mode and fire them from a cannon to get more trophies and stickers!
  
  So its a very fun game which will keep u busy for months!
  
  Cwood249
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanryan2525
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 12:37 am PT
Review:  To begin, the roster on this game is absolutely incredible. It's pretty hard to believe that Nintendo 
 did such a good job at creating such a perfect well balanced roster. It's really nice to see 3rd 
 party characters in the game as well. Such as Sonic, and Solid Snake, and they both play great. 
 On another note, the graphics are superb for a Wii game. Great animations, and beautiful environment 
 makes it one of the better looking games for the Wii right now. Theirs also a new single player 
 mode, The Subspace Emissary. A side scrolling story mode, required to unlock all the characters, 
 you can expect to complete Subspace in about 6-8 hours of play. The fighting system is just perfect. 
 Its simple, so it can appeal to the casual gamer, and its deep, for those hardcore gamers out there. 
 Online play is also a plus, only the fact that it can be a bit laggy can be annoying, but that's 
 not really a problem. Overall, for all Wii owners, Smash Bros Brawl is a must have, and can be 
 enjoyed by everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glyder56
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl is simply the best game out on and console. First off the graphics are mind 
 blowing easiy outdoing all other Wii games. Then comes the campaign, many of my friends hate it, 
 some love it, i like parts but definatly hate parts. But this shouldn't put you off buying it. 
 i preordered and got the classic controller but i prefer the Wii mote alone. its simply and gets 
 the job done. The amount of unlocks though just makes you wanna say CBF. Im Link of course cause 
 hes the best but theres some new stiff competition in Meta Knight, Ike, Marth and some old in Kirby. 
 Though there my favourites, not yours. there is a huge amount of levels to pick from now but there 
 is the addition to custom maps and Melee maps. I'm still yet to play online but can't wait, or 
 play with a mate.
  
  In conclusion Super Smash Bros Brawl is a must buy for ANY Wii owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Emblem_SS
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Smash Bros Brawl is with out a doubt the best fighting game out there with its simple controls 
 anyone can play it. If you want to be really good at the game you will spend hours playing it. 
 The Adventure Mode is very long and enjoyable it can take around 6 hours to beat but to find every 
 little thing you will have to spend HOURS playing.
  
  Brawl has tons to unlock its a massive game with over 60 hours of Secrets (trust me on this one) 
 its bound to last ages. It also is a great party game bring this bad boy out and tons of people 
 will love it.
  
  With characters like Mario, Pit, Link and others this will last SOO LONG!. With the inclusion of 
 Solid Snake and Sonic you must not miss out on this game.
  Brawl has all the usual modes, the progressive Classic Mode, The usual Singl battle modes, Free 
 for all, Team Battle, Stock, Time etc. as well as asorted challanges and mini Games, but theres 
 something new as well.
  The Subspace Emissary, which is a single player (though there is the option of Co-op) story driven 
 mode in which all the characters from brawl travel in groups around the land to battle evil. The 
 levels consist mainly of platforming and Fighting weaker enemies, while the Boss battles function 
 the same as the Quick Battles. As you progress through the variety of modes you will grab collectables 
 like trophys of video game characters and stickers to upgrade your fighters asell as unlocking 
 secret characters and new stages. there are also multiple ways to unlock characters, at least three 
 different ways, so you can do it how ever suits you.
  
  Overall the Single player mode alone clocks in at around 8-10 hours which is good in it self, then 
 there is the challanges and mini games that are about 2 hours once u done them all and theres three 
 different difficulties, after that ther is classic mode which is almost an hour, then there is 
 just the normal quick battles with its different modes, the stage builder, and all the stuff to 
 unlock, after all that i say you would have spent at lest 40 hours
  im total. After that you can just keep playin the Quick battles with all the stuff you unlock by 
 playin the game
  
  10 a perfect 10 game is awsome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ikeswordman
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Ok well SSBB is the 3rd installment in the Smash Bros. series, and its easily the best in the series 
 by far, the main gameplay modes in the game are the multiplayer modes where you can fight with 
 your friends or a CPU controlled oppenent, and then theres the single player mode which has your 
 normal modes like classic, all star, and event matches, and all that your used to, but it has a 
 new 1-2 player adventure mode called the Supspace Emissary, its fun at first but when you get a 
 few hours in you will force yourself to get through it, and then there's the highly anticapated 
 online mode and you will enjoy this mode better then any other mode in the game the matches are 
 smooth and you won't have much lag when you play.
  
  
  Character - 10
  
  There's so many characters to choose from that you will find several characters your good with 
 
  
  Graphics - 9.8
  
  The grahpics in this game are truly something to behold it may not take the looks as far as lets 
 say something like Super Mario Galaxy, but its still pretty to look at.
  
  
  Sound - 10
  
  The soundtrack in this game is simply amazing, you will never get tired of hearing 
 the songs in this game.
  
  Replay Value - 10
  
  This gamehas to have the greastest replay value of any Wii game to date, you will never get tired 
 of this game no matter how much you play it.
  
  so in conclusion pick up this masterpiece of a game, U won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LastGamer23
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  SS BB (Super Smash Brothers Brawl) is one of the greatest hits since the Nintendo 64 version and 
 every time a new gen Nintendo system comes out, SS BB is there waiting to make a splash in the 
 gaming world. This game has to be put in the book of being one of the greatest multi player games 
 of all times. Therefore i applaud the staff of Super Smash Brothers Brawl and everyone (unlike 
 me) who had the patients for the game to come out *Thumbs up*!! I can only hope that the next gen 
 system and the next Super Smash Brother game can out do what they have done in this game. For the 
 uninitiated, Smash Bros. is a multiplayer-centric series of fast-paced 2D fighting games that features 
 a cast of characters from all over the Nintendo universe. Now its all a matter of time before your 
 friend comes up to you and tells you that link sucks and you go o yea and then is an all out fight 
 between you him wolf and link to determine the greater character ( which is obviously link) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gray_Wolf-13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Brothers Brawl is certainly an incredible game but one that, like its two predecessors, 
 has some flaws.
  
  Super Smash Brothers has always been known to be an absolutely incredible multi player game and 
 Super Smash Brothers Brawl is no different. What with several new additions to the crew plus the 
 introduction of Smash Orbs, multi player is fast paced and loads of fun.
  
  Super Smash Brothers Brawl, however, does have a few things that make me turn away from giving 
 it a 10. First and foremost, while having two or more people down makes the game great fun without 
 more people that game offers nothing really exciting for 1 person to do. While Subspace Emissary 
 is fun for the first level or so, the scrolling platform levels really gets boring after a while 
 and battling level 9 computers gets rather dull, especially if you're really good at the game like 
 I am. Going online is fun, assuming that you don't get hit by really bad lag or all the people 
 don't drop out.
  
  Final word: A great party game for any Wii owner, but make sure you have something else you can 
 do when you're friends aren't around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodss
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2008 8:38 am PT
Review:  since 2006 all people want to check this out for a lot of reasons the smash attacks, new controls, 
 alternative characters or just cuz its a smash and its fun and this new one has all the things 
 necesary for playing a good fighting game.
  
  first of all the multiplayer that has not change since too much since the other game but its just 
 great, you can customize your matches, do tournaments, play specials and more, now you have 35 
 characters and a lot more of stage so it is a good point. total perfect. 
  
  the one player mode hasnt change too with classic, adventure and stadium, the adventure is now 
 a story mode where you can unlock most of the secrets but it is a little bored the classic is a 
 good point. 
  
  on the innovate point is the wi-fi, you can play with anyone but just if you are lucky cuz its 
 dificult to find someone, with friends its a little the same as multiplayer using codes to conenct 
 each other. the online mode is one of the better point of the game totaly fun. 
  
  just 3 words now have to say "buy it now
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarHero670
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2008 4:29 am PT
Review:  Now this is my first time playing a Smash Bros game so this is all completely new to me. The basic 
 gist of Smash Bros is to beat your opponents by using a variety of moves to launch your enemies 
 from the stage. I was amazed by the simplicity of it all while most fighters have you memorize 
 buttons like telephone numbers, Brawl makes it easier by having just two attack buttons. But it's 
 not limited either those are the building blocks for a great fighting system. It's great fun to 
 pick your favourite Ninty character and then kick some other people butts!
  
  But there are problems with this fighting system. One it can become a huge cluster making it really 
 hard to see your fighter. It can also be really cheap, like you'll be doing really well you'll 
 be dominating then BAM! out of pure and utter luck your opponent will grab a Smash Ball and obliterate 
 you which I think makes this game abit luck based. This problem REALLY exposes itself in the 100 
 man Brawl mode which would be possible to do for the newcomer if it wasn't for that your enemies 
 can pick up a nice cheap weapon and kill you in 0.5 seconds.
  
  Now everyone's been going on about the Subspace Emissary which is basically Brawl's singe player 
 story mode. While yes the story is fun to watch even though it's completely random but funny. The 
 controls are spot on your beating stuff down but just not so well for the platforming sections 
 but you'll force yourself through it regradless to get at all the unlockables.
  
  I can't really comment on the online right now seeing as the online seems to hate me. I can spectate 
 matches just fine but I can't never fight in one. If you say wait a while then no I'm not waiting 
 more than 20 minutes for a match. Fix this Nintendo!
  
  What Brawl has going in it's favor are that this game has a LOAD of unlockable stuff. If you want 
 to unlock every character ,every stage and every trophy you might be playing this for a good few 
 years or so. The game is also hella fun with friends. To make special rules, customizable stages 
 and the sheer amount of Nintendo history jam-packed make this game one of the best on the Wii! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Playaslaya11
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  OK, for those who arent familiar with the series Super Smash Bros is a side scrolling, 3D fighting 
 game. Unlike Tekken & Soul Caliber etc. The Enviroments you fight in are quite large and play a 
 strong part in the battle. In stead of the usual K. O s, SSB focuses on ring outs although a straight 
 K. O is possible.
  
  Ok got that? Good. On to Brawl, the third game in the series. Brawl again is made up by a cast 
 of Nintendo characters, all the normal favourites are there like Fox, Mario and Samus as well as 
 new comers like Pit from Kid Icarus and Ike From Fire Emblem, but there are also two third-party 
 Characters from outside of Nintendo branded games, Solid Snake as he appears in Metal Gear Solid 
 and Sonic the Hedghog.
  
  Brawl has all the usual modes, the progressive Classic Mode, The usual Singl battle modes, Free 
 for all, Team Battle, Stock, Time etc. as well as asorted challanges and mini Games, but theres 
 something new as well.
  The Subspace Emissary, which is a single player (though there is the option of Co-op) story driven 
 mode in which all the characters from brawl travel in groups around the land to battle evil. The 
 levels consist mainly of platforming and Fighting weaker enemies, while the Boss battles function 
 the same as the Quick Battles. As you progress through the variety of modes you will grab collectables 
 like trophys of video game characters and stickers to upgrade your fighters asell as unlocking 
 secret characters and new stages. there are also multiple ways to unlock characters, at least three 
 different ways, so you can do it how ever suits you.
  
  Overall the Single player mode alone clocks in at around 8-10 hours which is good in it self, then 
 there is the challanges and mini games that are about 2 hours once u done them all and theres three 
 different difficulties, after that ther is classic mode which is almost an hour, then there is 
 just the normal quick battles with its different modes, the stage builder, and all the stuff to 
 unlock, after all that i say you would have spent at lest 40 hours
  im total. After that you can just keep playin the Quick battles with all the stuff you unlocked.
 
  
  This is without a doubt the best game on the Wii and the best fighter out there in my opinion Tekken 
 and stuff is so boring.
  
  10 out of 10
  the games perfect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fan211
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2008 4:20 pm PT
Review:  With its Third time of brawling once again, Mario and the rest of the Nintendo gang duke it out 
 to be the Top Brawler. The Game now has a story mode called the Subspace Emmisary which is how 
 the "bad guys" go to defeat the "good guys" but really do you care who's good or bad?
  
  Sound-10/10
  The Sound of Brawl is fantastic as all the songs leave you speechless and the original 
 songs of Melee are also in. To get more you must collect CDs and CDs are extremely hard to get 
 as it takes about 15 seconds to make them go away. Although you might get them, it takes about 
 5 seconds to realize them.
  
  Graphics-8.7/10
  The Graphics are sorta alright. Even though its a action game that includes walking left or right 
 we could of got a game with a little Mario-feel to it probably in the boss fights but its still 
 a great thing.
  
  Story-8.5/10 
  Unbelieveable good. Well, its good but not great. Its a lot of fun but it get a bit old after a 
 while and you wish you want to brawl instead of walking and walking and walking and walking. Although 
 the maze part makes up for it.
  
  Gameplay-10/10
  The cream of the crop as it has different styles to choose from. I know people whine about "Ike 
 so overpowerful!' or "Dude, Bowser is so weak!' but there is always a counter like King Dedede 
 is a counter to Ike. Every character counters most people. If you don't like that, get out. The 
 final smash was a great thing to put it as it makes like a special and you can use them for a lot 
 of good times. Online is extremely great and is sometimes lag-free, sometimes. You can also bet 
 on players (Brawl does want to make you a gambler doesn't it?) on who to win it isn't a horse race 
 to bet on Mr. Doodles, but its a bet on luck. Superb gameplay with different ways to play.
  
  My Final Notes:
  Yes I probably missed some thing like create-a-stage. Custom Stages is a 
 nice feel to it and explores a lot of in depth creativity missing from the last game. Sure the 
 last game was good but Brawl does more. The pictures and videos are cool and are great addictions 
 as you can send them online but Nintendo doesn't really care looking at people's pics and vids 
 as the choose the one the sucks the most and shows it to the public even the custom stages suck! 
 Please, Brawl public make better stages then a stage called "Robot Man" because it will suck and 
 waste people's time. Trophies are harder to get as you shoot at them for them. Great concept and 
 the stickers well........ they are good. My review has help you probably but it has helped you. 
 If you loved fighting and multiplayer action and single-player action buy this game. If your a 
 douchebag making reviews that are 5.0 or lower posting on this review board then don't bother buying 
 it....... douchebag.
  
  My score is a 10 out of 10. Until the next game I review catch something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rubiks_cuber
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  The first score would be a 10 for a non-competitive player, where losing once because of tripping 
 won't be a big deal. Aside from that, the game has A LOT to do in it. with 35 characters and a 
 limitless amount of stages (with stage builder) , each match could provide something new. The Adventure 
 mode is fun and is an easy way to unlock new charaters. There are many solo player and multiplayer 
 modes, and wifi lets you play with your friends (or enimies) whenever you want. 
  
  Theres also the fact that each character is different. There are some cases where some charaters 
 are similar, but not exactly the same. The charaters are well balanced for the most part, and if 
 youre not playing competitivly, you wont notice the slight lack of balance in certain characters. 
 
  
  The other score could be a 9-9.5 for competitive players. Tripping can really mess you up and advanced 
 techniques from Melee have been either taken out or much harder to perform. As I said before, certain 
 charatcers seem superpowered, and there is still spamming (or using a really effective move over 
 and over and over...) Most of the charaters from Melee come back, but some didn't and you might 
 get disappointed in that. But even with the bad stuff for competitve players, that is no reason 
 tonot buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirDues
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  Brawl is an amazing addition to the series and will keep you busy for hours, playing with friends 
 and family.
  
  Gameplay - As we all know SSB is mostly known for its multiplayer, but Brawl introduces a brand 
 new way to play, the Subspace Emissary. This may not be what most people are interested in, but 
 SSE introduces each character in their own unique way which really makes it worth while. Some of 
 the levels are quite strange and sometimes hard to play on, but since there are 3 other modes of 
 1 player, it's a neat addition and combined the 1 player modes will take a big chunk out of your 
 life. There are so many things to unlock, such as music, trophys, and characters, (although unlocking 
 all the characters is far to easy and wont take you more than a couple of days) .
  
  Graphics - I would have to say, this game contains some of the best graphics for the wii, and the 
 cutscenes during the SSE are absolutely b-e-a-utiful. There is so much work and detail put into 
 each character and each level that from time to time you will catch yourself staring at each design 
 of the characters costumes, and construction of the levels.
  
  Sound - Although keeping the great original soundtrack of the previous SSBs, there are multiple 
 songs to unlock and will keep you busy unlocking each song far more longer than unlocking the characters. 
 What i thought was pretty cool was that if you use the wii remote, when you pick a character that 
 character makes there unique sound such as when choosing link, he says "Hiya!".
  
  This game is a must-have for any wii owner, possibly the best game for the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wassup432
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  Here is my review for Super Smash Bros Brawl:
  
  Pros:
  -Several single player modes to keep you busy
  -Mutiplayer is really exciting especially with 
 4 people
  -Nice diverse characters
  
  Cons:
  -Subspace Emisarry is repetive
  
  Story:
  Ok, the story starts with Mario and Kirby getting ready to fight. Just when they are 
 about to fight, evil comes. Peach and Zelda are kidnapped and suddenly, you are thrown in a boss 
 fight. After the fight, One of the princesses are kidnapped. In other parts of the world, other 
 Nintendo characters like Donkey Kong and etc are being turned into throphies. Your job is to save 
 Subspace by defeating the evil that's causing all this. The story is very fleshed out and really 
 nice. I personally enjoyed the story. 10/10
  
  Gameplay:
  The story mode for this game is Subspace Emisarry. It's a side scroller similar to the Mario games 
 (Super Mario Bros and such) . While it gets really fun, it actually gets repetive. Most of the levels 
 are just going through waves of enemies and platforming. Eventually, you run into bosses. The bosses 
 are fun to fight so I can't complain about that. Besides Subspace, you can do other modes such 
 as Classic and Events. There are several single player modes so this will keep you busy for a while. 
 The mutiplayer is the best part of this game especially with 4 people. Also, some of the single 
 player modes can be done with co-op, making the adventure more fun. Brawl supports several different 
 control schemes. Many people prefer the gamecube controller but I prefer the wii remote/nunchuck. 
 Although the adventure mode is repetive, the other single player modes can be done at anytime so 
 you aren't stuck with just adventure mode. 10/10
  
  Graphics:
  Ok, these graphics look really nice for a Wii game. The stage enviroments are very detailed and 
 character models look nice. Also, the final smashes look really nice. Little details on the characters 
 stand out a lot and when characters are zoomed in, they don't look bad. Also, the throphies look 
 like they are real when they are viewed in the vault. Cutscenes look awesome and you will be amazed 
 at the textures/models. 10/10
  
  Sound:
  Besides throwing in nintendo and a couple third party characters, they also threw in several classic 
 tracks such as the Metroid theme and many Mario themes. these themes are really nice to listen 
 to. Also, the sound effects are really nice. Most of the little sounds in the gameplay such as 
 mario's coin uppercut and pikachu's thunder ball are nice to listen to and they never get old. 
 No complaints on the sound. 10/10
  
  Value:
  Ok, this game is worth getting. You get several single player modes, online play, mutiplayer and 
 dozens of unlockables which adds great replay value. Fans of the series will pick this up but newcomers 
 to the series will enjoy it also. This is a really unique fighter that's easy to pick up. Go pick 
 up a copy now. 10/10
  
  Tilt:
  I haven't played the other two in the series but I enjoyed this game. This is without a doubt, 
 one of the best Wii games I've played. With many single player modes and long replay value, Brawl 
 is a game that can't be missed. 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mowser31
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay is the funnest part of the game. Yes it does seem a little slower then melee 
 but it doesn't take away the fight. The items are cheeper in this one so you should turn off the 
 items. The pokeballs are not as good as in melee because you constantly get the same bad ones.
 
  The assist trophies are a good addition to the items.
  
  Overall: 9.5/10
  
  
  Story: It was a good attempt but it was a little boring when you get to the last level and when 
 you don't die that much. I played it on normal and I only died on the last boss. Not very much 
 to say about this story mode.
  
  Overall: 6/10
  
  
  Extras: This is where Brawl shines its most. There is so much to do, battle all the bosses, create 
 your own stage, take pictures of you tropies and stickers ( kind of dumb but good when bored) , a 
 new way to to get your trohies and stickers with the coin launcher, the greatest collection of 
 music, and then the challenges will really make you work for 100%.
  
  Overall: 10/10
  
  
  Online: A very good addition to a good game, but with some clear mistakes. The only negative 
 feedback I can give to this would be the lag. For me though, most of the time it never lags, only 
 when I play for like 2 hours on it.
  
  Overall: 7/10
  
  
  Overall of the game: This is one of the best games this year to have if you have you and 3 other 
 friends. This is a buy for fans of the series and for people that like party games.
  
  9/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chocolate1325
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Melee was huge but Super Smash Bros Brawl is massive in terms of the options and 
 modes it has.
  
  The modes
  
  There are alot of modes the adventure mode the Subspace Emissary is a massive story where you play 
 as virtually every character in the game and the best way to unlock new characters. I think it 
 could have been better but it is fun to play. Unlike Melee you can play the adventure mode with 
 2 player co op. The vs mode is fun where you can play on all sorts of different arenas. You can 
 play Cruel Brawl,100 man brawl,10 man brawl and home run contest with 2 players this time. The 
 game features online but it is far from perfect and basically the main letdown of the game. It 
 is difficult to get a decent match and you don't have a win and loss statistics to see how many 
 you have won and lost and you don't really know who you are playing sometimes. It's actually better 
 when you play your friends because you can turn the items off and have stock matches and taunt 
 your opponents. Also there is a stage builder which lets you create your stage and they get added 
 so you can play on them. Basically all the modes from Melee are there but better.
  
  The power ups
  
  There are alot more this time one of them are assist trophies that help you 
 and take out your opponents. There is a final smash ball which each character has and it unleashes 
 a power full attack that ends normally with a KO against your opponents. A clock which slows your 
 opponents down. There are loads basically its to difficult to explain what most of them do but 
 most of them are good and can turn the match in your favour.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Basically the same as Super Smash Bros Melee but you can use 4 types of controller Gamecube, Classic 
 Controller, Wii mote or Wii Mote and Nunchuck. I recommend the Gamecube Controller the others don't 
 work that well I think.
  
  The characters
  
  There is more than 30 and for the first time in Smash Bros 2 third party characters are in Sonic 
 and Snake. Also the newcomers like Wolf, Olimar, Lucas, Zero Suit Samus, Wario, Ike, Pokemon Trainer 
 and many more join Mario, Link, Yoshi and the rst but some from Melee that didn't make it Young Link, Roy, Mewtwo, Pichu 
 and Dr Mario didn't make it. They all have their own moves but there are some clone characters 
 in there as well who could have and should have had a different moveset.
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics are nice brilliant some of the best on the console and the amount of detail put into 
 every character is amazing.
  
  Sound
  
  Well it is classic Nintendo tunes from Mario, Metroid, Zelda, Pokemon and many more of your Nintendo 
 favourites.
  
  Lastabilty
  
  This game should last a very long time and with the amount of unlockables it will just keep you 
 coming back for more and more.
  
  Overall opinion
  
  Super Smash Bros Brawl is perhaps the biggest game in terms of content and extras and modes and 
 has alot of value and offers so much to anyone who likes Nintendo and beat em ups. If you played 
 the others you are gonna love this game. It never seems to get dull. The online isn't the best 
 but overall the game is a must have for any Wii owner. This is the classic Nintendo all star beat 
 em up and is a must have game. Which ever Nintendo character you like will be in this game because 
 its packed with so much Nintendo history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyauau
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  You should never judge a game from its cover. I know people jump to conclusions without even playing 
 the game. I played this game and I'm completely satisfied. This game is described as nearly flawless 
 in every aspect.
  
  If you're familiar with SSB series than this game well get you on edge. In the following order 
 that uses all control schemes is Mortal Kombat Armageddon, Mario Kart Wii and now this game is 
 also worthy to get everyone to play the game. With this game, you have unlimited options to do 
 anything to unlock characters, stages etc. Everything controls to AI is well tuned in and like 
 the SSB series is that you can also watch the characters fight each other. The best about the gameplay 
 is there is no flaw to it. Even though they got the balanced fighting characters, it would've hold 
 on for more longer but they have to move on. The characters that is only played on the Gamecube 
 version is Mewtwo, Roy, Dr Mario and Pichu. Everyone else from this game has been improved considerably. 
 So my heart goes out to them. It's also worth noting that Mario is now have FLUDD from Super Mario 
 Sunshine, Link, Zelda and Ganondorf from Twilight Princess and Young Link substituted to Toon Link 
 from the Windwaker and even Mewtwo is substituted faithfully to Lucario.
  
  The graphics are a step forward in the series. There's nothing wrong with the graphics and its 
 one step ahead of the Gamecube version. I suppose the extra details are made for the characters 
 itself. Even the video quality has been improved thanks to the disc size format that they use. 
 There is also the deflicker option that is previously used on Gamecube. What that does is sharpening 
 the images and making it more crisp. Overall, even with of without the anti aliasing, it still 
 looks stunning because there's no frame rate problem what so ever.
  
  The sound is improved as well. Although some music is reminiscent from the series, the sound quality 
 is crystal clear. Talk about sound effect that changes from game to game, the sounds of punches, 
 kicks, swords, etc has been cleaned up to allow it to flow with the music. Even with the standard 
 surround sound it works. I just wish this game is the first to use Dolby Pro Logic 2 to digitise 
 and enhance the sound at its top.
  
  Even though on value terms, the options are endless, the best is the online multiplayer support. 
 Ever since the Gamecube unable to play internationally, its been a while until the Wii is able 
 to go online. If I remember correctly, the best games that also plays well online is Mario Strikers 
 Charged and Mario Kart Wii and the WarioWare Dr Mario in terms of strong addictive gameplay. There's 
 hardly any lag online so there shouldn't be any problems with the speed of the game.
  
  Its hard to imagine that the other consoles couldn't match the speed and fun value than Super Smash 
 Bros Brawl. You can play story mode in co-op and its pretty endless in all other modes of gameplay. 
 I admire this kind of game because only the Nintendo universe can get the whole universe to collide. 
 Also it's got a bonus of Solid Snake from the only Gamecube game Metal Gear Solid Twin Snakes and 
 Sonic from the famous Sega series. Overall, this game should be loved for what it is, not to be 
 judged against expecially on its cover. You want something memorable, watch Seinfeld's "The Pilot" 
 and "The Finale" to see your favourite casts again and enjoy their appearances. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KamikazeDonut
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Playing Super Smash Bros. Brawl brought back many memories of the original Super Smash. Super Smash 
 has always been fun in fact I 've been playing the franchise since I was 5 years old and it just 
 gets better and better with every game. The control scheme is really simple and smooth but could 
 take some getting use too with the wii remote and forget about playing with the wii remote sideways 
 (it's just a pain in the neck) . Anyways the control are so simple and yet it allows you to do some 
 not so simple things also there are tons of characters to unlock and now even Sony fanboys have 
 a reason to buy a Wii because now you can play as Snake. Also the Smash Ball is a welcome addition 
 as it will force everybody to stop what there doing and start to hit it like a colorful pinata 
 until all the tasy "sweets game out known as the Final Smash. This is also a great family game as 
 everyone of all ages can play and it's a great game to play at a party. Even by yourself it's fun 
 too play as there is tons to unlock besides characters and trophies but now you can even save your 
 games into videos (however this feature is very very poor because it barely gives the option to 
 save it but it's great when it does) . However online play is a little weak as not only is the friend 
 code thing a painbut when you play with strangers there is no online chat and you can pnly play 
 2 min. kill fests. In a nutshell this is one of the best Wii games out there the only reason why 
 you should'nt buy this game is because either A) your too cheap to buy a Wii or B) Your just plain 
 dumb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathHeart95
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  Well, it's finally here. After two delays and 4 months after what was supposed to be the release 
 date, Super Smash Bros. Brawl has been released. They did everyone a great favor by allowing players 
 to choose from four different controllers; the Wii-mote and nunchuck, the sideways Wii-mote, the 
 Classic Controller, and the GameCube Controller. People who played Melee should stick to the GameCube 
 controller because it is EXACTLY THE SAME control scheme.
  
  That is the problem with Brawl, it's basically an update to Melee. Put in a Smash Ball, Subspace 
 Emissary, and 10 more characters, and boom, that's Brawl. Of course, there is the online mode, 
 but... well... let's just say it isn't "up to par". I mean the controls are exactly the same, in 
 the first few days the game was out people would ONLY play on Melee stages online for some godforsaken 
 reason. It just seemed more and more like a beefed up version of Melee.
  
  Now, Melee was a fantastic game, in my opinion it WAS the game to have on the GameCube (excluding 
 Resident Evil 4) , so the above paragraph isn't really a bad thing, especially for newcomers to 
 the Super Smash Bros. series. They basically mastered the controls in Melee, so I understand their 
 reluctance to deviate from that.
  
  One of the most anticipated things in the game (other than online) was the Subspace Emissary. Subspace 
 Emissary took the place of the Adventure mode that was in Melee, and has some sort of a story to 
 it. It is much different than the majority of the game, as it is more of a platformer than a fighting 
 game, other than boss fights which returned to the fighting genre. This mode is okay, it adds a 
 lot more time than Adventure mode would, as it takes about 8-10 hours to complete depending on 
 difficulty. Of course, the final stage takes forever, and after about 20 minutes you'll ask yourself 
 when it's going to end. The one great thing about the Subspace Emissary is that you can unlock 
 all the characters without playing a single VS match. You have to beat it before you can get certain 
 characters, but you can unlock every character, which is better than playing 700 VS matches just 
 so you can unlock someone.
  
  Now, this game will last you a long time. The Wii doesn't have an achievement system, but there 
 is a area of the game where you can see how to unlock certain maps, songs, trophies, and create-a-map 
 parts. This will keep you going, and going, and going, like the Energizer bunny. You can easily 
 play this for over 100 hours, but I'm not a perfectionist, so I didn't spend quite that much time. 
 Still, it'll keep you busy for a very, VERY long time.
  
  Gameplay:9
  Single-player: 7
  Online:6
  Lasting appeal: 10
  Overall (not an average) : 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weddlecm
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 26, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  March 4, 2008 - With more than six million copies sold worldwide since its release seven years 
 ago, Super Smash Bros. Melee remains  easily -- GameCube's best-selling title. The 3D fighter, 
 a sequel to 1999's surprise hit Nintendo 64 project Super Smash Bros., packed in more characters, 
 more stages and a seemingly endless supply of nostalgic trophies and collectibles to become one 
 of the system's most beloved efforts. There was so much content squeezed into Melee, in fact, that 
 the multiplayer fighter kept devoted fans entertained not just for months, but years. Yet, compared 
 to the Whopper that is Super Smash Bros Brawl, a Wii game dripping with different play modes, characters, 
 stages and online components, Melee has been reduced to a plain old hamburger. (And by the way, 
 we're hungry.) 
  
  Hungry, that is, for some epic offline and online multiplayer fights, and thankfully Brawl  like 
 its predecessors  satisfies. If you want numbers, we've got them. Nintendo's latest fighter features 
 35 mascots  a figure up from 12 in the original and 26 in Melee. It also includes more than 40 
 different levels, each a throwback to classic franchise stages, both from Nintendo and also from 
 the likes of SEGA and Konami, but we'll get to that. Point is, it's a much meatier package -- we 
 honestly don't know why we can't seem to break from our hamburger analogies  and we haven't even 
 started in on the customization options, online support, and more
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: humantnt
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl (SSBB) i expected to be an enjoyable game with good multiplayer, but when 
 i played it for the first time, it was much more thrilling And Intense than its predessesor super 
 smash bros melee
  
  This Game Has Come Back with a hit!, Better Graphics, Audio, Gameplay And Much Much Much More, Its 
 Only Lacks I Can Really Think Of Is Maybe The Fact Of No Rankings For Wi-fi And Thats Basicly It, 
 This Is A Long, Hard Challenging Game Which Takes Quite Some Time To Accomplish 
  
  I Am Glad I Bought This Game, It Is Insanely Fun Sortive Addictive But I Dont Really Get Addicted 
 To Games So Yea, This Game Is Easily The Funnest Wii Game, Not The Best Overall But The Funnest
 
  
  The New Attacks Like The Final Smashes And The Updated Characters Are A Big Hit Making This Game 
 So Amazingly Fun And Intense From Start To Finish.
  
  The Really Annoying Thing Is Some Characters "Clone Characters" Can Be Annoying As They Are Extremely 
 Identical And Can Be Pointless At times.
  
  The Modes, Stage Builder, Challenges And 2player Co-op System Are Great, I Can now Have My Friend 
 Over And Not Have To Worry About Sharing Also With The New Rotate System For No More Loser plays 
 on
  
  This Game Is Filled With Many Characters, Stages And Surprises Along The Way All U Gotta Do Is Find 
 Them..
  
  Some Say That This Is The Best Game Of All Time, I Dont Buy That It Is Definitly Not But Its Still 
 Overall A Great Game And Will Always Be A Memorable One Too.
  
  
  All Wii Owners Buy This Game!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrueSonOfSparda
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  I waited for this game way to damn long. Delay after delay made me angry and finally it is here. 
 Well its been here for a while now, and it was worth the wait. This is the best Smash Bros to come 
 out. That does not surprise me. The new characters are so great, except Sonic but who gives. It 
 has Solid Snake. For a Metal Gear Solid fan this is as good as putting Dante in here. I found other 
 characters, and fell into the hands of Ike. There is also King Dedede who is a strong version of 
 Kirby, and there is also Meta Knight if your the fast button masher who never lets go of the A 
 button. This game has changed some characters for the better. Ness is actually useful again, and 
 Ganondorf is not a cheap copy off of Captain Falcon. If you do waist your life in this game (which 
 I most certainly have) you will unlock Wolf, one of the coolest people to screw around with.
  Now in Brawl there is a new story mode. This is surprisingly fun. It's not fun if you don't like 
 playing as different characters, but I on the other hand like every character. It will last about 
 6 to 10 hours depending on your skill, and you should go another round with a friend. Single player 
 and co-op have their strengths. Example: single player can be better if your friend was not a tw@, 
 and do everything you don't want to do. 
  Now comes multi-player. Get ready to waist a good 50 hours of your life at least. You are now old 
 enough to be the bastard you always wanted to be to kill that person who is better then you with 
 the Smash Ball. If you find a helpless icon flouting around, you have encountered the gay icon 
 that single handedly will cause hell on your enemy. Example: Lucas will call hell to come up and 
 kill anyone who is not dead. Example 2: Kirby will make everyone and everything into beef stew 
 and I am not talking figuratively. He literally cooks you, and you explode into thin air while 
 he eats your remains. This can be fun to watch at first, but it gets annoying after the first 20 
 hours unless your using it. Everything else is the same except for annoying cases that contain 
 some dude to screw up the game. Example: Gray Fox (a ninja from Metal Gear Solid) slices you up 
 while some dude is behind you charging a smash attack. Besides that the game is the same as last 
 time. The graphics are great for a Wii game. The venues are the most interesting. They are so interesting 
 you will have to find them out because they are so good, I should not spoil it. The only thing 
 I shall say is yes, there is a pokimond stadium level. If you have not played a SSB game then I 
 am surprised you are not dead yet, and this is a sign that you still have time. For everyone else 
 in this world that's an entity, get this game. If you can only choose one Wii game for your birthday 
 present, get Super Smash Brothers Brawl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnthonyCB
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Pro: Pichu is gone
  Still Fun for parties, the more people the more fun
  Cool individual names for the difficulty of CPUs
  A lot of strange characters to choose from
 
  A lot of strange stages to play on, including the best stages from Melee
  A few of the new characters are among the best in the game.
  Con: The graphics are only slightly 
 better than Melee's
  Most of the new stages are freaking annoying to play on
  Everything seems strangely slow when compared to Melee
  Only about half the new characters are 
 usable
  Final Smashes are irritating
  The music that isn't taken directly from other games is terrible, and a lot of the random songs 
 you can unlock are really inappropriate for fast paced battles
  All the best items from Melee (homerun bat) are now useless
  Some of the characters from Melee 
 (Shiek, Gannondorf, Captain Falcon) are now inexplicably worse.
  Ice Climbers and Game & Watch are still here.
  The difficulty is inconsistent; sometimes level 
 9 CPUs will be way too easy and other times they will destroy you unmercifully. 
  Mario doesn't make funny noises anymore.
  I hate Wario & DeDeDe
  Way too many things to do 
 in the game that isn't brawling (i. e. Stickers & photo album)
  There are wayyy too many trophies, to the point when you get trophies for getting other trophies.
 
  The stages from the Subspace emissary are all the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersbrawler
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  What can one say about Super Smash Bros. Brawl? Well first of all one could say how great and exhilirating 
 it is. One could also comment on that it has the greatest sound track this side of Neptune. Anybody 
 can play with its easy controls, but its still competitive enough for the most hardcore Smash veterans. 
 the only setback of this game is the incredibly pointless and badly made story mode, but this can 
 be overlooked by anybody. Plus the addition of Solid Snake and Sonic the Hedgehog is the best addition 
 to this game. If you have ever wanted Peach to finally save herself for once, or defeat Ganondorf 
 with Mario and Bowser with Link, this game cannot be overlooked. With 35 characters (not counting 
 the ones that can change) this game will keep you occupied until the very next Smash Bros. game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolcats1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  overall super smash bros brawl is amazingly fun. i love it so much and i got it at a discount price. 
 hahaha! but anyway its graphics are so cool. the characters i think look the best are mario, link, 
 and snake. and the stages are really good like mushroomy kingdom, bridge of eldin, and you can 
 even make your own stages. thats what i do alot. but the topic of the game i like the most is nintendos 
 exclusive wi-fi ssbb online battles aka brawl online. i play that alot with random people and others. 
 these graphics are a must have for the wii and i recomend it at the highest demand. this is my 
 review and now!
  
  `spoilers:
  1) theres i think 42 character (ill need to check but i did unlock all of them)
  2) your online 
 rouster can hold 69 people.
  3) you can unlock characters fast and easy by playing vs mode with one life then jump out of the 
 stage.
  4) new foes await in the full all character adventure mode. l :
  
  enjoy!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomguy15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Finally after three delays and much anticipation, Super Smash Bros. Brawl is finally here. Was 
 it worth the wait? YESSSSSS!!!!! With a total of 35 characters, and many different modes this game 
 is a must buy. 
  
  There are many modes to pick from including: classic, subspace emissary, training, events, stadium, 
 and brawl. Most events can be done by co-op on events you have to do co-op to complete all of them. 
 The subspace emissary is easily the best of them all. You start off picking a character and going 
 through a platforming adventure and get a bckstory of most of the characters, excluding wolf, toon 
 link and jigglypuff. in my opinion meta knight is the best character. But the graphics are easily 
 the best I've seen on wii especially on the subspace emissary.
  
  So with all the great things about brawl you would expect it to be perfect right? Well not quite, 
 I really am ready for nintendo games to have dialouge which this game has barely any. also unlocking 
 everything is a bit much. But the positives blow the negatives out of the water. I've noticed many 
 differences between mellee and brawl, one being their is no more wavedashing, and unlocking characters 
 seems easier and faster. The computer fighters seem to be harder, and multiplayer is absolutely 
 the best it couldn't get any better.
  
  If your wondering about wi-fi I haven't tried it as of yet, but I heard if you battle with a friend 
 their is relatively no lag. Their is also a spectator mode where you gamble on who you think who 
 will win. So overall this is a must buy game for the wii with it's aweseome stages and characters, 
 and it's amazing soundtrack, it also has more cinematics than any other nintendo game combined. 
 Plus it has so many trophies and chronicals and other past nintendo things that long time fans 
 can geek out over. So if your a fan our even a newcomer you will not be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moebrothers
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  When I first played this game I thought it was lame because it was a little hard to play with on 
 the wii remote. But after a day i got used to it and it got really fun. The characters are good 
 and so are the stages. I also love how they made a story mode for this game also. That amazed me 
 from the cut scenes because they were good and clean. If you play this game after you play Super 
 Smash Bros. Melee, you will be amazed. I mean that Melee had a lot of duplicate characters such 
 as link and young link, or Mario and Dr. Mario. Also Super Smash Bros. Melee had no story mode and 
 that made me mad because when a game has a story mode with scenes in the middle of each level, 
 it makes it better. Super Smash Bros. Brawl had great stages and I love playing on them. Like the 
 one from Kirby was great because it had great a great background and it was so creative. But don't 
 forget the characters. With the appearance from sonic and snake, that blew my mind off. It also 
 had great Nintendo legends such as Mario, Link, Samus, and Pikachu. So I rate this game 10 stars 
 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: socomsniper226
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  No multi player is like that of what I have seen in brawl, I love this game.. Tekken is just gone 
 now. The multiplayer is awesome especially online. The new map editor is great, even though I can't 
 make jack sh*t. The idea of bringing metal gear, one of my favorite games in the world.. is fantastic.
 
  And brawl keeps all of snakes imitations. I have played super smash bros since the beginning and 
 I love it, Every time it gets better and better. I thought I would sell my wii, But that was stupid. 
 If it wasn't for my friend, I wouldn't have the pleasure of playing the best deathmatch in history 
 of gaming..
  Let's face it, This beats dbz, tekken, soul calibur, and the old super smash bros. Heck I love 
 using the old gamecube controller on this console.. 
  I know this was a short review, But I have to play this masterpiece some more.
  Overall: 
  
 Graphics: 8/10
  value:10/10
  tilt:10/10
  sound:10/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alidallal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Smash series is one of Nintendo's treasures that it puts too much care into to give players the 
 best experience possible. Melee on the GameCube was one of the best multiplayer games that we never 
 stopped playing till few days before the release of Brawl.
  
  As expected from Nintendo, Brawl is the best multiplayer game you can get on the Wii and could 
 stay that way the entire lifespan of the Nintendo Wii. The first thing I noticed when I switched 
 on the game was the opening theme which is composed by the legendary composer "Nobuo Uematsu" composer 
 of Final Fantasy series. Since I brought it up I will first talk about the music, this game has 
 a collection of 285 tracks spanning from old tunes that bring back nice old memories, great arrangements 
 for old music to new quality composed music. If the game soundtrack was officially released then 
 it is going to be a nice addition to my music Library.
  
  Graphically the game looks great, at the first glance you will think it looks somehow similar to 
 Melee but if you put them head to head you will notice the care taken into the little details, 
 you will also notice how the characters look more mature which I personally find much better. The 
 game runs smoothly with no problems, just once in a certain stage the frame rate dropped badly 
 because loads of things were happening but other than that I didn't notice any problems at all.
 
  
  If you played Melee you will notice how the characters differ a lot in power, on the other hand 
 Brawl gives you a much more balanced gameplay except for one weak character which I won't mention 
 so I don't spoil it for you. As for the single player you will have a lengthy story mode containing 
 fun to watch movies that can be unlocked once you finish it. In addition, one of my favorite features 
 is the challenges added to this installment. Challenges are certain conditions you have to meet 
 to unlock trophies, soundtracks, stickers, stages  etc which if you plan to finish will keep you 
 busy for a really long time.
  
  The real fun begins in the multiplayer mode which is the most thing the game excels at. With 40 
 characters to play with, around 30 stages and the ability to create your own you will have in your 
 hands one of the best multiplayer games on the Wii.
  Of course one of the major enhancements is the addition of online play, if you don't have friends 
 to play with you can simply go online and compete against players around the world. There is still 
 things I can talk about but I don't want to ruin the experience for you.
  
  In simple words, this is one of the best games on the Nintendo Wii. If you are familiar with Super 
 Smash series or new, either way you should have this game or at least give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cartoonguy11
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  This has to be the best game I've ever played in my life. This game is just perfect. It takes what 
 was great about the last two games in the series and made them even better, and being a gigantic 
 fan of the series, I enjoyed every minute of it. This game also has the best multiplayer I've ever 
 played on! You can go online and kick some nicely-rendered booty! The graphics are perfect! You 
 can see everything so clearly! I love how if you're playing with the Nunchuk, you can turn on motion 
 controls! What a novel idea! Nintendo did a really good job when making this game! This was well 
 worth the $50! If you have a Wii, get this game! It's well worth the money and your time! If you 
 are a fan of the Super Smash Bros. series, this is a heavenly game to have in your collection! 
 This is the best fighting game of all time and the best game I've ever played! The online lags 
 a bit, but it's still fun to go online and see how good of a gamer you really are! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tavares17
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  This is my first review so don't be so picky. Okay So super smash bros brawl. Is an amazing game 
 it has plenty of characters to unlock, plenty of levels, and plenty of music. Which makes it alot 
 more fun to try and unlock these characters, levels and music. It has great multiplayer fun so 
 the whole family can enjoy. It also has a new thing called Sub Space Emissary which the other Super 
 smash's don't. It's an adventure that everyone will love. And of course ti has those challenges 
 for you to complete. If you like the other super smash's I high suggest this one too. I also highly 
 suggest you buy it instead of renting it because if your willing to try to unlock every little 
 thing by renting it you won't have enough time. It's also really good on wi-fi so if you have wi-fi 
 it will only make the game even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mario_fanatic59
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  i love this game. it completely changed the smash bros. way with the final smashes. pit is the 
 man. he shall always win because he is an upgraded version of link. i always go on wifi. the only 
 thing i don't like is that wifi is slow. and i always have 3 bars. i wanted this game because and 
 that i like the series. i wanted it soooooo much that i got the wii for this game. i hope nintendo 
 make another game for the series. or hopefully another system. i can't wait for Super Mario Sluggers. 
 i still love pit. GOOOOOOOOOO PIT. this not boring game is not boring and will never get old because 
 you can create your own stages. the series shall never dieeeeeeeeeeeeeeee ooouuuttt. the only flaw 
 about pit is that it is easy to dodge his final smash when you are pit. you can use the mirror 
 and block but you can be hit from the back. GOOOOOOOOOO PIT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xLuigiFan101x
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl is a action, adventure, and a fighting game. It's the third installment 
 in the Super Smash Bros series. It's also the best...
  
  First let's start with the controls. You have four control options. Wiimote, Wiimote and Nunchuk 
 Combo, Gamecube Controller, and Classic Controller. All controls work well, but the Wiimote and 
 Nunchuk Combo might take time to get used to. You would probably use a Gamecube Controller anyway. 
 It's the same as SSBM.
  
  Then the graphics. It's not all about graphics but they can be compared to a Xbox 360 or PS3 game. 
 But not the best graphic games. I don't really care about graphics so let's move on.
  
  The gameplay is an important part of this game, and the series. You pick a brawler, set the items, 
 rules, and others. Then you set the other brawlers, pick a stage, and fight. Any Smash Bros fan 
 know what to expect. The fighting is pretty slower, but that's better since you can see the whole 
 action better. There are 35 brawlers. Which is a pretty large selection. Besides the main multiplayer 
 mode, there is Classic, Event, Subspace Emmisary, and other modes. 
  
  Subspace Emmisary is the new adventure mode with cutscenes and you have to play with all characters. 
 (With the exception of few) It's a side-scroller
  based mode. But you're pretty much the same as Brawl mode. You go through many levels, but almost 
 each time you advance, you must play as others. This is also a quick way to unlock characters. 
 Soon you can pick your own characters to play with.
  
  
  Other modes are Stage Builder, Trophy Mode, Coin Launcher, Online, and others. Online isn't that 
 great, but it's worth playing with friends that are across the land and/or world. When playing 
 with random people, it sometimes takes too long to find opponents. And you can only play with friends 
 who have your friend code and you have theirs. Overall it's an excellent game and it's a must-have 
 game for the Wii. Have fun SSBBrawling! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintend0-BuDDy
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Let's start it off on a good note. If Super Smash Bros. Brawl were an action star, it would be 
 Chuck Norris... yep, it's that awesome.
  
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl blends together (practically) every Nintendo realm to create the most action 
 packed multiplayer game since, well, Melee. For the first time, third-party characters are playable. 
 Sonic and Solid Snake join in for the fun as well as their buddies (Shadow and Grey Fox appear 
 as assist trophies) .
  
  The game's single player component excels way past Melee's sub-par adventure mode and "okay" classic 
 mode to give us a 10+ hour single player/co-op story called the Sub-Space Emissary. The adventure 
 mode is pretty big. There are also plenty of high quality cut-scenes in the SSE that will have 
 you drooling onto the floor. Yes, for a Wii game, the cut-sence are breath taking!!!!! Playing 
 with a friend is lots-o-fun. Fortunately , the SSE allows you to unlock every character within 
 the story mode. That means you can have the whole gang of brawlers quickly and (in theory) painlessly, 
 unlike Melee.
  
  Of course the game's core component is Multiplayer! Brawl has a ship load of Characters to choose 
 from and each is pretty fun to play as. There are a wide verity of courses as well. Some new ones 
 and some old ones from Melee as well as your own! That's right you can make your own stages (so 
 make some bad ones to annoy your friends... heh, heh) . Brawl also includes flawless online play through 
 the WFC. Either with friends, or with any random guy.
  
  The extra content in this game is, a bit overwhelming. Tons of trophies, stickers, and music to 
 collect. The achievement board is huge! You could spend months, heck, even years getting everything 
 unlocked on the board. Yep that's as massive Brawl is.
  
  In short, Brawl is the biggest piece of fan service EVER and every Wii owner should buy this game, 
 and if you don't have a Wii. Go get one and this game NOW! EPPPIIIIIIIIICCCC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gump08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl has a large bundle of characters from all over nintendo. The best way to 
 use these characters is in multiplayer. In multiplayer you are given various ways to pit your characters 
 in a brawl. You have the option to fight against a certain amount of computer players or fight 
 with friends together in a friends house or around the world with wi- fi. It's a lot more competitve 
 doing it with friends which answers why it is a great multiplayer. 
  
  In solo you do a good number of modes which will give you certain requirments to do. Also you can 
 still have a friend tag along and play. Also in solo there is the adventure mode The subspace emissnary. 
 Here you will play as diffrent characters following their own story where they slowly come toghether 
 to fight an enemy who is transporting parts of their land to subspace. Here you will also unlock 
 most of your characters. Though there is no voice acting in adventure mode which would be nice.
 
  
  The only other two characters not unlocked in adventure mode is snake and sonic the hedghog. Both 
 are a surprise appeance share their number of moves. They are unlocked when you do a surprise fight 
 after a brawl and beat them. With a variety of stages and awards this game is likely the best on 
 the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hebri
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  Graphics/Presentation-
  Everybody knows that the Wii is not as powerful as the PS3 and X360 in terms of details, but in 
 terms of attraction the Wii does stand out and Super Mario Galaxy is one big proof. 
  When talking about the cut-scenes in the sub-space emissary the presentation is absolutely stunning, 
 highly polished. When talking about the Graphics during the gameplay itself, it's still beautiful 
 and a vast improvement over the GC's Super Smash Melee. The characters look amazing, special effects 
 as good as they should and the samething goes to the environment. But there are times where you 
 get this feeling the some things areas could've been slightly improved. 9/10
  
  Gameplay-
  This is clearly the strongest point of the game and it is no surprise at all that 
 Nintendo came up with it. The idea is very smart yet simple enough to appeal newcomers and veteran 
 players alike. You pick your favorite character from the roster, then pick a stage and them start 
 Brawling. Every character has a percentage gauge and you have to knock your enemy out. The higher 
 the percentage the easier to knock down and they way to increase your opponent's is to just hit 
 him in any way. 
  Every character has 4 special moves: up, down, side and standard 'B' move. Also, every character 
 has 3 smash attacks that can be charged. This time in Brawl there an item called 'smash ball' that 
 allows a character who gets it to unleach its most powerful weapon, known as the 'final smash attack'. 
 This way, a fight can be turned upside-down at any moment leaving you in a moment of sadness and 
 regret or in a moment of delight and satisfaction. The gameplay couldn't get any better than this. 
 10/10
  
  Sound-
  Soundtracks could never be better than this, they fit pefectly into the mood of the game. 10/10
 
  
  Lasting Appeal-
  You cannot go wrong with 41 stages, 35 characters, a new adventure mode 'the subspace emissary', 
 online mode, literally hunderds of stickers and trophies to collect, numerous challenges, event 
 matches, target smashes with different difficulty levels, home-run contest, multi-man brawl, increased 
 CPU difficulty that makes brawling more challenging and entertatining and literally unlimited hours 
 of gameplay. 10/10
  
  Value-
  Buying this game at any price is worth it, trust me. 10/10
  
  Overall-
  9.8/10- I've been 
 for Brawl for 6 years since Melee came out so I was looking forward to this game like never before, 
 I actually bought the Wii mainly for this game so the fact that the game turned out to be better 
 than I expected it would be is simply unbelievable.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coin13
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2008 5:39 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is probably the best game for Wii since it came out. The new and useful 
 thing is the smash ball the item that gives u incredible power, also great inlockables, amazing features, and 
 awsome new adventure mode. Another great thing about this game is the multiplayer. You can have multiplayer 
 in adventure mode aswell as gameplay. Plus this game is for Wii, and Wii is awsome. Here are the bad 
 parts of the game.
  
  
  (1. NOTHING
  (2. NOTHING
  (3. NOTHING
  
  
  So yea there are no bad parts. but some characters that were in MELEE were forgotten such as Pichu 
 and Roy. for reasons they did'nt make the cut LOOK at my review for MELEE (being written next saturday.)
 
  Well thats it thax for reading my review 
  -COIN13;)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bededog
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Well Super Smash Bros Brawl has been out for a while now and most of you probably already have 
 the game. Which brings up the point of why I'm bothering to do a review of it; I frankly don't 
 know why. :P But nonetheless I'm doing a review of Brawl so enjoy it. 
  
  As most of you know Brawl is the third in the Super Smash Bros series of games. The series has 
 you playing as many of your favorite Nintendo mascots as they fight each other to the death! As 
 with past games multiplayer is the main draw here. Playing with friends locally or via wifi is 
 a blast and easily the best part of the game. And continuing the trend from Melee the developers 
 try to make the single player campaign more interesting as well. Whither or not they succeeded 
 in this attempt is debatable. 
  
  The goal of Brawl is to fight with other players and have the most points at the end of the round 
 or be the last one standing depending on the match settings. You do this by knocking opponents 
 off the screen to kill them. You attack the opponents to increase their damage percentage. Once 
 they have enough damage they become easy to knock off the screen and kill them. The premise isn't 
 that deep but it turns out Brawl is far more engrossing then you might expect. The amount of items, 
 stages, and character move sets makes each match unique and it never gets old.
  
  Let's start of with the basic controls. Brawl makes use off all controllers available on Wii. You 
 have the choice of using the GC controller, the Wiimote sideways, the Wiimote with the Nunchuk, 
 and the Classic controller. Each control setup has it's own pros and cons and which is best for 
 you will depend on preference. All the control setups work fine, although the Wiimote sideways 
 is a bit of a pain to use because of the odd shape of the Wiimote when you hold it sideways and 
 the lack of buttons. 
  
  If you have played past SSB games then you will be familiar with Brawl's control scheme. As usual 
 the A button is for regular attacks with the B button for special attacks. And you can use different 
 combinations of the control stick and A/B buttons to do different attacks. Then you have the regular 
 jump, shield, taunt, etc buttons. All of this is fairly easy to get into and if you don't like 
 how the controls are set upped you can customized the controls to your liking. Although the customized 
 controls are a bit limited. You can't just put any action to any button, it limits you severely 
 sadly. If I want to press left to go right I should be able to!  =|
  
  So far Brawl is basically Melee all over again. But you will notice some differences. The most 
 obvious is the addition of the smash ball. The smash ball is an item the floats around on the screen. 
 All the characters can attack it to try and break the ball open. Whoever breaks it open gets to 
 use a new move called the Final Smash. Each character has it's own Final Smash (minus a few very 
 similar ones) . The Final Smashes range wildly in appearance and effect and you're best off trying 
 them all for yourself. But all of the Final Smashes are very powerful and the appearance of a smash 
 ball will instantly change the course of the match as everyone tries to get the smash ball. 
  
  Okay let's go onto the characters. Brawl has quite a few characters, 35 to be exact. Most of 
 your favorite characters from Melee are back along with some very good newcomers. Fans were outraged 
 that Melee had some carbon-copy characters, luckily Brawl doesn't do this. While some characters, 
 such as the Star Fox set, are very similar they are unique enough to warrant the different characters. 
 The characters seem to be well balanced, and while there will be top tier characters, for the average 
 player each character has potential to become your main.
  
  Now it's time for the stages. Brawl has a ton of new stages and a decent selection of stages from 
 Melee. Brawl's new stages have far more going on then stages in previous games. Almost all the 
 stages have some sort of special effect doing on; whether it be transformations, destructible environments, 
 physic changes or anything else it makes for a much more chaotic gameplay. Along with the regular 
 stages Brawl also lets you made your own stages using a bit of a limiting grid system. First off 
 you choose the size, theme, and music of your stage. Then you get to fill the gird in with various 
 different stage pieces. Although the stage builder is very basic and there isn't much to it, it 
 works and you can still make some good fun stages. As an added bonus you can send stages to your 
 friends as well.
  
  And let's not for get the items as well. Most of the items are the same as Melee with some new 
 ones here and there. Besides the smash ball mention earlier other new items include: Dragoon where 
 you have to collect the three pieces to use it, the pitfall to stop players in their tracks, the 
 gooey bomb that sticks to you and will explode if you don't attach it to another player, and many 
 more. But the biggest change is the addition of Assist Trophies. You will find trophies laying 
 on the ground during matches, you can grab these trophies and unleash powerful items that do various 
 things. It's basically like a Pokemon ball but with all sorts of characters from different games, 
 and don't worry Brawl still has Pokemon balls. :P Overall the selection of items are more varied 
 then every, although 'hardcore' players will choose not to use items altogether. 
  
  Okay that's enough of the multiplayer let's get onto the singleplayer. Brawl's singleplayer is 
 much like that of Melee's. You have the basic classic mode where you face enemies one at a time. 
 Training mode, All-Star mode where you face all the characters with limited recovery items, and 
 event matches. All of these are basically the same as they where in Melee. The only thing that 
 has been changed from Melee to Brawl is the Stadium mode. Most of it is still the same, it still 
 has home-run contest, multi-man, and boss battles. But the mode is missing Stand on the Target, 
 which as taken out of Brawl completely. This isn't all that bad although I wish they kept it as 
 it was an interesting diversion. The Target Smash is also different then Melee. Instead of having 
 different levels for each character like in Melee there are now only four different levels based 
 upon difficulty. This is a bit of a let down since it feels like you are missing a lot of content, 
 but it's not a deal breaking thing just a bit disappointing.
  
  The biggest change in Brawl's single player is the Adventure mode. It's now called the Subspace 
 Emissary and is quite an adventure. The Subspace Emissary will take around eight, yes eight, hours 
 to complete. Unfortunately this is a very dull eight hours at best and just plain tedious at worst. 
 The SSE is basically and adventure told through cut scenes. Once the cut scene is done you do into 
 a 2d sidescrolling platformer gameplay. This is where the first flaw comes in, Brawl was set up 
 to be a fighter not a platformer. The controls don't work that well for platforming, it's playable 
 but not nearly as fluid as say a true Mario game. So essentially you just run around mostly linear 
 platforms until you get to a boss battle and then repeat. The gameplay is fun and is just tedious 
 most of the time. And it is so repetitive, SSE uses the same enemies and backgrounds over and over. 
 The only redeeming qualities of SSE is the cut scenes which are actually very nicely made and look 
 great. And of course that SSE is the easiest way to unlock all or most of the characters, which 
 is really the only incentive to beat it.
  
  Now then let's go onto the graphics department. Brawl is easily one of the best looking games on 
 Wii. The characters are well rendered and are highly detailed. The stages are all unique and styled 
 well. The only complaint here is that some items are a bit too small to tell what they are at times. 
 But besides that there isn't much to fault graphics wise.
  
  As with the graphics the music and sounds of Brawl don't have much to fault either. The soundtrack 
 is easily one of the best video game soundtrack to be made in a long time. Literally dozens of 
 composers from various companies helped in making the soundtrack and it shows. The soundtrack consists 
 of remixes of many classic Nintendo tunes. All of these are done very well and you are bound to 
 find something you like. The same can be said for the sound effects. Brawl also introduces a new 
 feature they call "My Music." Basically this mode allows you to choose what song will play for 
 each stage. This sounds great when you first hear it, but it's actually very limiting and a disappointment. 
 The game has tracks preset for each level, all you can do is choose between those tracks. So I 
 can't have a Kirby song on Mario's stage, this is really irritating and defeats the point of have 
 customizable tracks in the first place.
  
  Okay let's see what else Brawl has to offer. Brawl has an online mode that doesn't really work. 
 Like all other Nintendo games (besides Mario Kart Wii) you have to trade Friend Codes to battle 
 your friends. And while there is a random match mode it's pretty much useless. The system takes 
 forever to find people, literally ten minute waits for me. And then when you do find someone you 
 can't communicate with them at all, not even simple blurbs. And it can be very laggy at times. 
 If you are playing against friends though it is a bit better. Most notably is that fact you can 
 assign blurbs to your taunt buttons. You just press a taunt button and the blurb will show above 
 your character. This is a fun little addition that should have been in random matches as well, 
 just use some censoring Nintendo geez. There is also the Spectator mode. Here you can watch battles 
 people have uploaded, this mode works well but isn't all the interesting to most people. Overall 
 the online is decent with friends but still filled with bugs, lag, and other little annoyances 
 in random matches that make the overall feel leave a bad taste in your mouth.
  
  Before I rap up this review I should mention some of the little extras Brawl has as well. Like 
 Melee you can collect trophies. In Melee you got trophies by using a slot machine, in Brawl you 
 have a fell fledge minigame call the Coin Launcher. In the Coin Launcher you fire coins to get 
 by playing the game to hit trophies and enemies to collect them. It's a very fun minigame and addictive 
 to play. Brawl also has a screenshot capabilities. You can pause a match at anytime (besides online 
 of course) to take a picture. You can sends these pictures to anyone on your FC list which is a 
 nice little touch. You can also recored entire matches and send them to friends as well. And the 
 last notable extra in Brawl is the Masterpeices. The Masterpieces are trail versions of various 
 games you can find on the Virtual Console. This is a cool idea, I mean what better way to advertise 
 games then a demo in a popular game. It's too bad the demos are short, and when I say short I mean 
 30 seconds short. 
  
  Overall Brawl is a great fighting game. It has the characters, stages, items, options, and extras 
 to make it a superb game. While it's lacking in some areas and some things could have been a bit 
 more polished, mainly the online, the minor flaws the game has are stuffed away in the corner easy 
 to be forgotten by all the positive aspects of the game. The Super Smash Bros series has always 
 been know for it's lovable characters, crazy stages and items, and it's great and easily accessible 
 controls. Brawl has all of this and improves on it making it a blast to play and easily the best 
 Super Smash Bros game to come out yet.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexh_99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Whats so special about Super Smash Bros. Brawl? well lets see.
  
  Characters- there are 35 chracters this time around, from your favorites: Mario, Zelda, Pikachu 
 to third party: snake, sonic, all the way to bad guys: Bowser, Wario, and ganondorf.
  
  Stages- The stages are more complex then ever. For example some go from day to night depending 
 on you wii's internal clock, and others the backround changes and you have to dodge things that 
 come for you. There are over 40 stages (new and old) and you can create your own stages in the 
 all new stage creator.
  
  Sound- This game features and impressive sound track. its the most songs ever put into a game i 
 believe. I cant recall how many but there are over 200. 
  
  1P Mode. The one player mode is alot better from the other games. You can play the old classic 
 mode or you can save the world in the Subspace emissary.
  
  other modes: Some other modes include All star mode, boss battles, and special brawl.
  
  Online: 
 Online is a new feature for the smash bros series. You can take pictures, videos and create stages 
 and send them in to nintendo where they will chose the best of the day and send them to all the 
 consoles in th world. There is also online with friends (need friend codes) or random. Now with 
 friends is the best option you can chose stock or time and other options, but with random you cant 
 chose anything its alway 2 minutes.
  
  Some complain the online is laggy, i havent really experienced that. 
  
  SSBB defeats the others 
 in the series in everysingle way, if nintendo made the online better it most likely would have 
 gotten a ten.
  
  If you are bored and want something to play, pick up brawl it has infinate replayability.
  
 
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mullen15
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2008 6:54 am PT
Review:  I have been playing Super Smash since the 64 it's a no brainer this best in the series. With 35 
 characters from all over the Nintendo cast it really delivers with the amount of choices you have. 
 Some of the items are unbalanced. The Smash Ball is the new big item which has an individual character 
 release an attack which is like a finisher.
  The graphics are great and so is presentation with a lot of modes. You can also pick between different 
 controllers (gamecube. classic, wii remote, wii remote + nunchuck)
  
  But there is only one drawback that's really keeps this from being a perfect 10, the online mode. 
 Can you say lag? Well if you can even get in a match. Nintendo looks to not even want to fix it 
 because I still can't play online, well only with friends which still lags.
  
  
  THE GOOD: Fun to play with friends (offline) . Awesome cast. Tons of modes that keep the game stay 
 fresh. Many control options to choose from.
  
  THE BAD: Online is broken and Nintendo had no intention to fix it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroidfan220
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  The innovation, challenge, and just plain old-fashioned fun provided by Super Smash Brothers Brawl 
 is reminiscent of the late 80s, when Nintendo pumped out masterpiece after masterpiece, because 
 they couldn't afford anything else. Brawl has obviously been worked on furiously to the point where 
 there is little to nothing that an engineer, given more time or money, could do to improve it. 
 Nintendo shows with this game their dedication to making platforms about the fun of gaming, instead 
 of getting the easy sell with sex, violence, and rock and roll. Super Smash Bros. Brawl is fun 
 for literally every gamer, from the casual 8 year old first timer to the hardcore 28 year old college 
 student. Literally hundreds of hours will be spent playing before you even realize that you have 
 been playing that much. I have, several times, looked at the clock after a "short time" playing, 
 and realized that I had spent four or five hours unlocking challenge after challenge, without a 
 second of boredom in between. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendofreak19
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  "Before the story beggins there is such a sin for you to take what's yours until the end of the 
 game" because this game is all about ability. Being easy to dominate and hard to master this game 
 owns a 9.9 because of all of its upgrades. First of all a whole new paragraph in the story mode. 
 This is a new mode in which you most destroy the Subspace's menace. 
  The next bonus is an entire row of characters, including classics from Nintendo like Pit from Kid 
 Icarus and R. O. B. from Gyromite and even brawlers from other worlds like Snake from Metal Gear 
 and Sonic the Hedgehog. 
  Another new technology that Nintendo used is the Wi-Fi which will let you play with people all-around 
 the world and even vs. your friends from your home to theirs. The only problem presented in this 
 game mode are a little of connection failures, but that can be easily ignored. 
  In other words "BUY THIS GAME!!!". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twilight_King85
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing it has so much u can do they have the old classic mode and target and home 
 run thing but the new mode is adventure mode it is about 5 to 6 hours of gameplay!! I dont like 
 tht it is to easy 2 get everyone in the game alll u have 2 do is just unlock them in subspace emisarry (i 
 dont know how to spell it) but at the end of adventure mode nintendo got lazy and had u go through 
 all the levels again but backwards it got real annoying but it was still fun its better to play 
 wit a buddy in co-op
  but the new thing is the smash ball its is hard 2 get if ur playing wit 3 peeps but when ur wit 
 com. play its easy. The online is fun but i dont like tht u can only play a 2 minute game instead 
 of stock. Its mostly lag free. There are tons of stages and characters to get the soundtrack is 
 beautiful (there likes an album for each person like Link or Mario) there are tons of unlockables 
 tht will take months 2 get. IN the end the only thing i didnt like is tht it fells like melee and 
 its 2 easy 2 get people other then tht PERFECT!!! :lol: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amek34
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Now this game you guys gotta get because its the most awesome game for the wii XD. You can pick 
 up to 35 (or 36 not sure) characters in this game. There like no end to it, its just that fun. 
 There is a crap load of stages, about 41 to brawl in. Also there is the stage builder thingy and 
 its amazing!!! With 3 different backrounds and like 15 something parts for your stage. You can 
 make it on a small, normal, or large stage. You also name it and put a song from the game on top 
 (any song that you have unlocked) . Now theres the story mode which is really fun. But, much funnier 
 if you have a friend to play with. The cut scenes in the story mode is awesome. And it takes a 
 couple of hours just to beat the story. Also theres missions *but no that much like melee* And 
 you can do missions with another person. Even break the targets, home run contest, multi man, boss 
 battle, and even All star can be down with another person. But, no classic. Another fun thing is 
 playing online. Its fun to play with friends and you can also chat to them *4 messages per battle*. 
 If u only have 2 friends your battling you can add another player. But, the bad thing is you cant 
 play custom stages but, still awesome multiplayer. You can also play home run contest and multi 
 man with your friends. If you dont have any friends to play with you can play with anyone but, 
 you cant play with a friend and you cant chat, so playing with friends is way better. Last thing 
 i have to say about this game is THIS GAME SHOULD DESERVE A TEN GAMESPOT BECAUSE THIS GAME KICKS 
 ASS!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bananawaxer
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Similar to the preceding versions of this game Super Smash Bros. Brawl for the Wii is a great video 
 game that will keep you intrigued for hours after hours. Bring your friends over to compete against 
 each other to become the Super Smash Bros. champion as you can have up to 4 people playing simultaneously. 
 Choose from the classic characters which include Mario, Donkey Kong, Yoshi, Sonic and many more 
 and jump in the ring to battle it out once and for all.
  
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl for the Wii uses the control system to the maximum, with a exceptional 
 way of controlling your characters you can be sure that it will add a sense of uniqueness to the 
 game play which makes it an overall better experience for the gamer. There are a total of 4 different 
 control styles to choose from so you will have to try them all to find the easiest as some of the 
 moves can be fairly difficult to pull off so this game will require lots of practice.
  
  The visual aspect of the Super Smash Bros. Brawl for the Wii is very good, it has very detailed 
 arenas which are fast, clean and clear so you can guarantee that it is easy on the eye which is 
 beneficial and helps speed up the battle process. Not only does it look good but the audio is great 
 too, each character has comments that you will hear during the game. To conclude, this game is 
 set to live up to the standard set by the previous Super Smash Bros. in the past. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake2215449
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Brawl has it all, awesome gameplay, great variety, excellent online. What else do you need? Brawl 
 has tons of features, story mode, classic mode, solo modes, group modes, online modes and editional 
 features of each catagory. They all add upto a game which will not be forgotten for years to come.
 
  
  Brawl's story mode is nothing but fun. It lets you play and battle all of the 24 characters present 
 in Brawl. The design of levels and their features is simply incredible and the A. I and how the 
 game follows to it is also very impressive. 
  
  Classic mode lets you fight a series of rounds in which you will face a boss and if you beat him, 
 you will unlock a character! Its a lot of fun and will keep you busy for a long time.
  
  Solo modes let you play home run contest, multi battles which let you fight with more than 10 enemies! 
 Even a second player can join in at anytime to give you a hand.
  
  Group modes allow you to fight with your family and friends. They will take you to Brawl's most 
 interesting battlefields and this time levels from Super Smash Bros. Melee are also included in 
 the game!
  
  Brawl's online lets you play with your friends or with anyone from around the world. All you need 
 is the internet and then your ready to brawl!
  
  Brawl is a great success and is extrememly enjoyable by anyone who is looking for some fun.
  
 Actual rating: 9.2
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: edmond1997
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  This is the best Wii game of them all for fans of fighting. It is fun and impressive. This is the 
 third game of the series. Over lots of modes and lots of unlockable characters, stages and music. This 
 games got wi-fi connection so you can fight 3 friends or fight strangers. Even better, you can make 
 custom stages to play and share with friends. (You can't play it with strangers) Adventure mode got 
 a name and is really fun. If your favourite character is Kirby, well too bad. You have to choose 4 
 characters they provide you. (The other extras are lives) At the last stage all the characters are 
 available. During the final boss, you get 6 characters. Overall the story is great. Events and all 
 the extras return as well including special brawl. If your a newbie or a pro in the series. Buy this 
 game, it's better than melee. Much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ethan111111
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2008 5:48 am PT
Review:  Me & my bro rented this game over 3 times then decided to buy it. i played it with my friends and 
 it was almost a perfect game, it was good. then when my bro and I opened it we played it nonstop. 
 we played it for like a week just playing around what they have with the game. anyway wonce we 
 got all the characters we played it less and less.. my love with the game was over.. so then we 
 gave it to gamestop for a quick buck even though selling your games there is a bigger rip of then 
 game system giveaways. i treasured it for a month before that and now I care less about wii anymore. 
 so if you what to save a little $ then rent it till your bored then go on to a diffrent game. if 
 they came out for another SSB then i would play it but after playing the game so much it loses 
 intrest. but its a great game. add me plz!! i'll talk to you...... bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yodas_Boy
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2008 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Smash Bros. Brawl is an incredibly good game, and one that will last gamers for another 5 years 
 or so until the next Smash Bros. game inevitably arrives.
  
  Rather than describe the entire game, I'll focus on explaining how Brawl improves upon its predecessor, 
 Melee (released in 2001) .
  
  Visually the game has been given a reasonable bump up; not a graphical leap like we saw from Ocarina 
 of Time to Twilight Princess, but a bump up nonetheless. Environments are decorated with light 
 blooming, bump mapping, and are destructible. Characters and objects in general sport more polygons 
 than their predecessors, and feature higher-res textures. Backgrounds have probably been improved 
 more than any other part of the game, as they now are much more dynamic than before, and also look 
 much more impressive. For example, rather than a few relatively flat objects in the background 
 like before, you'll see detailed mountains, covered in trees, and effects like fire, explosions, 
 or rain can be seen in the background as well.
  
  The core gameplay in Brawl is identical to previous iterations, which is a very good thing. Various 
 incremental improvements have been made, however. For example, there are more characters to choose 
 from, characters' abilities and powers have been rebalanced to make battles more fair, there are 
 new items to use, environments are more exciting to play in, as they change and feature destructible 
 objects, the sound track is incredible, and there is online play, as well as the ability to save 
 films. 
  
  There are some areas in Brawl that could have been better, however, preventing me from giving it 
 a 10. First of all, to unlock all the players within a reasonable amount of time, you have to beat 
 the single player campaign, the Subspace Emissary. This is a grueling and sluggish process, taking 
 you at least 6 or so hours to finish the first time through. This wouldn't be a problem if the 
 Subspace Emissary were fun to play... but it just isn't for the most part (incredible cutscenes 
 aside) . Also, the online system is somewhat finicky, as you will often have trouble setting up 
 a game, and when you do, it is almost guaranteed to be very laggy. Playing with people on your 
 friends list rectifies this, but due to the nature of Nintendo friend lists, it's pretty difficult 
 to have a large (and reliable) friends roster.
  
  All in all Smash Bros. Brawl is an excellent game. If you liked Melee, it's a no brainer; you must 
 get Brawl. Brawl isn't perfect, but it is still a great improvement over an already incredible 
 game, Melee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexyfatman24
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 9:54 pm PT
Review:  WOW! Once I got my copy and began playing for about 48 hours straight, I asked myself "What more 
 does this game have to offer?" Brawl has all the gameplay mechanics that seemed to be missing from 
 melee. It has so many new stages and characters. What makes the new stages so great is the interactions. 
 When brawling a player will find themselves sliding down a mountain on an iceberg or shot at by 
 the bomb-throwing towers in the hidden zelda stage. Each interaction between player and stage is 
 related to the game it is based off of. In the Twilight Princess stage, the players are treated 
 to an orc riding a buffalo (or whatever that thing is) . The orc will throw the bomb onto the bridge 
 and blow it up, which is what happens in Twilight Princess. Also, all of the new characters are 
 fantastic. Each one uses moves that work and are completely perfect. I have to admit that I was 
 worried about Sonic. II didn't think they could pull off that character, but I was wrong.
  
  Since this game was so good, it is hard to pick out bad things about it. But here I go.
  
 
  One thing that bothered me is the fact that the main enemy in the Subspace Emissary was a completely 
 new character who was randomly thrown in. Throughout the adventure mode, you go around thinking 
 it is going to be good guys versus bad guys. Making is extremely cliche, but as long as it is epic 
 I wouldn't have a probably with it. But that's the problem. The adventure mode seemed to have characters 
 thrown in randomly instead of having them play a part in the whole grand scheme. Characters like 
 Sonic, Snake, ice climbers, lucario, olimar, wolf, toon link, and jigglypuff. This adventure mode 
 would have been so much better if they gave it more of a kingdom hearts feel. If you could move 
 your character to different worlds: a pokemon world, a starfox world, a zelda world, a mario world, 
 a sonic world. As you travel to each place, you help characters and they decide to join your team. 
 And instead of having a random bad guy showing up at the end, the bad guy will show up every once 
 in a while at certain points in the game. Also, why isn't anyone talking. Players are only treated 
 to an occasional "grunt" or "pika" but no full sentences at all.
  I don't want you to think that I completely hated the adventure mode. It had great gameplay elements, 
 but the story could have been improved. 
  
  The only other element to this game that I did not like was "break the targets." What happened 
 to each character having a different stage for target practice? I really liked the fact that the 
 5 levels were un-lockable, but their was no effort at all to make them different for each character. 
 This made completing them not fun and turned them into a chore. If they don't want to have a different 
 stage for each character that is fine, but don't make it boring to play again and again. At least 
 change the locations of the targets for each characters. But no, were just stuck with the same 
 boring targets on the same boring stages. 
  
  
  One player mode can be fun, but it is no match compared to multi-player. When playing brawl nothing 
 can be better than getting a few friends together and brawling together for a few hours, days, 
 or weeks. So because the multi-player is so incredibly sweet. I am going to give this game a 10/10.
 
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 2, 2009 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl, was one of the main reasons why I wanted to get a Wii, and I was excited 
 when that was one of the games that I got with the Wii that my mom got at an auction. Super Smash 
 Bros Brawl is a great game, but a bit disappointing.
  
  Now you have a single player, where you get to go through a bunch of levels, not just a bot mode. 
 The single player is a side scroller like the rest of the game, and it can be king of fun at times. 
 But that's not to say that the single player can be boring at times. Some of the levels are really 
 boring play on.
  
  So now you have the multi player. The multi player can be fun, if you play with other people. The 
 bots are boring to play with. Super Smash Bros Brawl is a lot of fun, if you can find at least 
 3 people to play with, besides that, the bot mode sucks.
  
  A new addition to this game is the Nintendo Wi Fi. The online multi player was suppose to be really 
 good, but I can't play it because I can't find on darn match. I once sat in the waiting room for 
 ten minutes, and I could not find one player. My cousins also said that when they got into a match, 
 the controls took about a second and a half to respond. Do you need Fios to run this game's multi 
 player, or is it just laggy.
  
  The graphics in Super Smash Bros Brawl do not look that bad for a cartoonish game. In fact, these 
 graphics look really good.
  
  The sound is okay. The music is not that bad, but some of the character's voices have me a huge 
 headache. Some of the character's voices sound really annoying, and the worst part is that the 
 voice comes out of the wii remote.
  
  Over all, Super Smash Bros Brawl is a great party game, and a good single player game held back 
 by a few problems, but if you are a fan of the first two, then you should be right at home with 
 Brawl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LVL100
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 16, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Despite several claims of this game being "the greatest SSB since Melee", I have to disagree. Although 
 the graphics are nice, and they kept the classic battling system, the controls were difficult to 
 figure out. For about five minutes, I was stuck on the menu screen because I couldn't figure out 
 what button to push. Then I was playing backwards because I had the controller upside down. The 
 game is definitely better played with a Gamecube controller, like in Melee. Also, the adventure 
 mode is pretty crappy, especially if you're playing it with another person. You have to be close 
 to the person you're playing with, or you either die or get teleported back to the person after 
 a few minutes. But overall, it's a good game. I don't think it deserves a five of five stars like 
 on G-4 or a 9.5 this website gave it, so I gave it an eight, for everything else that was awesome 
 about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rickstinater
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  So after many pushed backed release dates, SSB Brawl comes out. The story mode was awsome... very 
 touching.
  
  First the negatives:
  
  I wanna know who's idea was it to add sonic to this game. Sonic was never a nintendo character 
 and was always a rival to nintendo. That annoys the heck out of me when I see that character. The 
 multiplayer is good if it would stop lagging the whole time. It takes 5 minutes to finish a 2 minute 
 round. The characters moves hasn't really changed at all since Melee. And they keep overdoing it 
 with the Pokemon. Pokemon trainer should have a name, like Ash from the actual show.
  
  Now the positives:
  Graphics are amazing and the story mode is just too good. There so much more 
 you can do know and so many characters, its hard to put it down. Even if you play with the CPU's 
 the whole time. Theres always something to do on this game. And the added Final Smash just makes 
 a lot of excitement to finish your opponents
  
  Last the other comments:
  Game is fun for everyone. Strongly suggest using a controller instead of the remote. It will make 
 things easier that way. Wonder what the next SSB will look like. RPK
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nakasa5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  SSBB is perhaps the most anticipated game since the release of the Wii, and the most anticipated 
 game in the industry since Halo 3. For this reason, I think a lot of things in this game were overlooked 
 by reviewers who were simply excited to have another polished and solid Smash title on their hands.
 
  
  Graphics: Perhaps the best things this game has to offer is its visuals. There is a consistent 
 frame rate no matter how much is going on. The cut scenes are among some of the best looking on 
 any console. Mario's mustache and Samus' visor have never looked better!
  
  Gameplay: Here is my biggest issue. This game play JUST LIKE Melee. I know the old adage, "if it 
 ain't broke don't fix it," however if I am going to play a new game on a new system I would like 
 to see it take advantage of the "revolution" of the Wii remote and nunchuck. There is no motion 
 controls in the entire game! In fact, the GC controller can be used just like this game is Melee. 
 What's the point in a "revolution" if the game is going to play like a last gen carbon copy?
  
  Some of the new additions to the game are great though. The final smash ball is a great idea, 
 as well as the inclusion of 3rd party characters Sonic and Snake. There a ton of levels and characters 
 to unlock during the game. There is a good balance int he game, and all the things that were so 
 amazing in Melee return here. Online play is pretty basic, allowing battles across the world, with 
 friends, or as a spectator.
  
  Story: The single player campaign, Subspace Emissary, is better than Melee's, but it is still pretty 
 awful. The story is uninteresting, and the cooperative multiplayer is frustrating, as the camera 
 only follows the first player. The only reason to play it is unlock characters, stages, and other 
 things.
  
  Sound: Great orchestrated score. One of the best soundtracks in a game ever. Songs from all of 
 your favorite titles featured in the game.
  
  Overall, SSBB is a solid fighting game that anyone with a couple of friends around will have fun 
 playing. However, the fact that the title does not take advantage of Wii controls is unforgivable 
 to me. Also, the single player is pretty bad and the online multiplayer is very basic. For this, 
 I give SSBB a much more realistic score than GS or other are giving it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lil_Wii_MVP_13
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  All gamers remember back in 2006 when we were first alerted that Nintendo was releasing one of 
 the greatest sequels ever in the history of Wii gaming. Everyone remembers the frustrating 2 year 
 wait we had to go through. I just want to say..... It was definately worth it! For one, there are 
 sooo... wait.... toooo many characters. You can play as Mario, Bowser, Wolf, Ike, and, my two favorite, 
 Sonic and Luigi. You can play in a lot of stages, too. There is also sooo..... again.... toooooo 
 much to do. You can create your own stages, record a great brawl, fight, battle someone using wi-fi, 
 fight........... oh, and fight!!! The "story mode" of the game is pretty solid and fun. Although 
 I also like them both, this geat sequel makes its two "older bros." look like ametures! Basically, 
 if you get this spectacular game, you are most definately getting your money's worth!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazybankai9
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 15, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  Nintendo brings out its third game to the smash bros legacy. Super smash bro brawl is defiently 
 one of the best wii fighting games, but not the best smash bro game. In brawl you can play as over 
 30 of your favorite nintendo characters including snake from metal gear solid and song from sonic 
 the hedgehog. Their is a much more updated adventure mode but I still think melees story mode is 
 better. Of course nintendo wi-fi connection is another big deal about the game. Sadly the connection 
 takes to long to load but onece you start playing it is fun. I am not trying to say the games bad 
 I mean I like it and everything I am just trying to that melee is a better game but brawl is ceartinly 
 very close to beating it. Everybody who is fans of this game i recomend you try the first. The 
 first will show how the game became from that to how it is now.-crazybankai9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RTRGRZA
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  What may be Nintendo's most anticipated game of the year os out, but that's no reason to go all 
 crazy. It's not like SSBB is the biggest piece of fan-service to arrive to a home console as well 
 as a kickass game. Well, that how it is.
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is basicall everything you could love about Nintendo in one unique package. 
 It all starts with the massive character roster, the biggest yet. You have your classic veterans 
 like Mario, Link, and Samus, but now they're joined by fresg faces like Pit from Kid Icarus, Meta 
 Knight from the Kirby series, and the world's favorite anti-hero, Wario. New to the series is the 
 inclusion of third-party characters Snake from MGS and Sonic the Hedgehog. As always, the characters 
 are well-balanced, but the inclusion of characters with unique characteristics is truly impressive. 
 Let me explain. Samus has two different modes. There's Samus with her regular armor, but when she 
 unleashes her Final Smash (more on that later) she turns into Zero Suit Samus, a sexier version 
 of herself that sacrifices firepower for speed. Instead of your cannon, you have a powerful whip. 
 Mastering this version of Samus requires different tactics than the ones with armored Samus. Another 
 example is Lucario (Pokemon Diamond and Pearl) , who becomes more powerful when he takes on damage. 
 Finally, the pokemon trainer is a character you pick, but don't get to play as. Instead, you play 
 as three classic pokemon: Squirtle, Ivysaur, and Charizard. 
  The gameplay remains the same. Two to four characters duke it out to beat the crap out of one another. 
 You must build up enough damage to knock them off-screen and score a point. Highest score or last 
 man standing wins. This is the gameplay that has always made the franchise party and tournament 
 fav around the world. You'll be fighting in some impressive new stages with some nice interactive 
 elements, such as the town of Animal Crossing, the foliage of the Pikmin world, and WarioWare Inc. 
 (my favorite) . Some new items have been added to the matches, like assist trophies. These spawn 
 a secondary character from a Nintendo franchise and help you fight your opponents. The one major 
 addition is the smash orb, a flying rainbow-radiating Smash bros. logo that if you smash it, you'll 
 be able to perform a final smash, a powerful, over-the-top attack that can help you beat your enemies 
 with ease. A well timed Smash can change the course of a match. 
  While straight-up battles on local multiplayer are fun as always, online play has been introduced. 
 This important new feature is tons of fun, letting you team up with friends and\or strangers and 
 fight. You can also watch a match and bet coins on who will be the winner. You better have a good 
 connection if you want to get the most enjoyment possible. If not, the battles will slow down and 
 fill with lag.
  On the solo side, there's plenty to do. You have your classic mode, event challenges, a stage editor 
 where you can create your own stages and show them to your friends and the stadium, but the biggest 
 addition is "Subspace Emissary", an adventure mode for one of two players, taking you through the 
 story of the game. Its fun to see all the characters interact with one another, but the repetitive 
 platforming levels and lack of voice acting can be underwhelming. Conveniantly, completing this 
 mode will unlock all the characters by the end, which is good if you don't want to play thousands 
 of matches to unlock them.
  Take all this with a heavy dose of trophies, stickers, and music tracks to unlock and this is a 
 game that can keep you occupied for years to come. Despite several small complaints, this game 
 is everything Melee was, but bigger and better. I thank Nintendo for not forsaking the hardocre 
 in an era where the we're overun with voting channels and mini-game collections. Super Smash Bros 
 Brawl opens a big can of whoop-ass on your Wiis. If you've ever loved Nintendo, ou owe it to yourself 
 to check this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjog
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  First of all this game is some what hard but in a good way. Buying this game will change your life 
 big time as in changing your taste of video games. My friend code is 4253 3153 7253 . Enter that 
 code to add me as your friend on the game comment if any problems. This game has perfect graphics 
 and perfect game quality. The fun thing to me is the challenges they give you to try like they 
 try to give you challenges in a room, you can view them and see which ones you need to do. One 
 thing you collect are trophy's. These are an awesome artifact to the game. Also stickers are a 
 non cool thing but they are fun to collect if you are getting bored of the game. Also a thing that 
 challenges me a lot are the events in event mode. There are 40 single player ones and if you beat 
 the subspace emissary mode and 20 events you can get jiggly puff and I almost forgot about the 
 subspace emissary mode this is just like adventure mode like in most games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mittsy08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  The Super Smash Bros games all have a similar concept: knock your opponents off the stage and into 
 a never ending abyss by first using quick attacks that build up damage, then sending your opponents 
 sky high with a powerful smash attack, hence the name. Although it seems a simple concept, it takes 
 no time at all to learn, but years to master. The newest installment, Super Smash Bros Brawl, gives 
 you more characters and more places to knock the stuffing out of your opponents. Although the original 
 interface has stayed the same, a group mode for quick action; a solo mode for classic, adventure, 
 and all star; a stadium mode for Multi Man Brawl, (killing lots of weak enemies in a certain amount 
 of time or certain amount of enemies) Homerun Contest, and Break the Target; there are many new 
 things added to the game. One of the most exciting new addition is the Sub Space Emissary, the 
 Adventure Mode. In earlier takes on adventure mode, you would play through Nintendo themed areas 
 looking for a way to clear the area and then fight your next enemy based on that last area. But 
 Brawl's Adventure Mode is very different: it is a full-fledged video game by itself, complete with 
 a common enemy and an original plot, and will take you well over 20 hours to complete and obtain 
 everything there is to offer. Although the Emissary is a great new feature, there is also a stage 
 creator that allows you to make your very own custom stage and play on it in group mode. Group 
 mode, which is basically multiplayer mode where you can fight against your friends on a number 
 of stages and with a number of characters, is essentially the same as it was in Brawl's predecessor, 
 Super Smash Bros Melee, but this time around there are more items and even a rotation option that 
 allows you to rotate between who plays when so as to avoid confusion of who's turn it is. Along 
 with that, Group mode also allows you to customize how you play from having all the characters 
 be unbelievably large, to metal, to even playing with a flower on their head. ( Trust me, that 
 flower isn't for show) Another new feature is the Challenge screen. Are you tired of going to Gamespot 
 every time you get a new game to figure out how to unlock everything? Well in Brawl there is a 
 challenge menu that lists almost every single thing you must do to obtain every single song, sticker, 
 and trophy in the game. What is a trophy, you say. Well apart from the Sub Space Emissary there 
 is a side story where every character is actually a trophy that has come to life. To die is like 
 to be turned back into a trophy. Now throughout the game you can collect trophies, which are three 
 dimensional objects that depict a person, place or thing from any of Nintendo's game series including 
 Mario, Zelda, Metroid and Sonic to name a few. You can view these in the vault section of the game, 
 but sadly these trophies are solely for show, you cannot play as them too. Although these trophies 
 are for show, they are a very grand sight to behold if you have all 500-odd trophies in the game, 
 and collecting all the trophy's in a Smash Bros game is no small feat, so you will have huge bragging 
 rights if you do. Speaking about bragging rights, the best way to truly test your skill is to hook 
 up to the internet and play any other brawler from around the world. You can also play online with 
 friends online so you don't have to come to their house every day or even know their real name 
 for that matter, you could just meet them on the internet. That concludes my review. If you want 
 to invite a bunch of friends over and want to play Wii for a while, just whip out Brawl because 
 in truth, is the best party game I have ever played. It's great with friends, great by yourself, 
 and over all is one of the greatest games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bahamut_032
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 11:00 pm PT
Review:  It's been almost 7 years since Nintendo made Super Smash Bros Melee on the Gamecube. Since then, 
 hordes of fighting games have been released across a variety of systems. Games like Street Fighter, 
 Dead or Alive, Tekken, and Soul Calibur are still running strong on the Playstation 3 and Xbox 
 360. This however leaves Nintendo in the dust, since there hasn't really been a lot of great fighting 
 games on the Nintendo consoles, at least not since the SNES days. But with that in mind, Super 
 Smash Bros Brawl more than fills the void, and is arguably the best installment in the series so 
 far. 
  
  The game concept is fairly simple; pick a "Nintendo" character (35 of them in fact,) and knock 
 your opponent out of the ring. The game play itself really only uses two buttons: "A" and "B". 
 This is where the series' charm can be found, in its relatively easy-to-pick-up game play. Whereas 
 Street Fighter and Tekken would have you "memorize" combinations and sequences, SSBB gives you 
 a simple control scheme, which creates a less intimidating experience for beginners. Within minutes, 
 even the worst gamer can win a few matches, with the simple D-pad+A combo. However, this doesn't 
 eliminate the strategy element from the game, as there are drastic differences in the speed and 
 power of certain characters, and as well as the different stages you fight on. With each character 
 and arena, you have to adjust your strategy accordingly.
  
  SSBB has the standard "Brawl" mode, where you fight CPU opponents in either a free-for-all or team 
 battle. But in addition to that, you also have the subspace emissary mode, the adventure component 
 of the game. Subspace Emissary wasn't the best part of Brawl, considering that most of the levels 
 end up a bit tedious and repetitive. You may spend up to around 8 hours playing through the SE 
 mode, unlocking characters and such. But the bulk of your playing time will likely be spent in 
 multiplayer.
  
  SSBB offers support up to 4 players at a time during multiplayer. And while you can use the standard 
 Remote+Nunchuck setup, you aren't limited to it. You can also use the Gamecube controller, the 
 classic controller, or the standalone Remote, which gives you a total of 4 control options. SSB 
 was always a great game to break out at the parties because of its accessible multiplayer, but 
 now Nintendo cranked up the replay value with online options. 
  
  The online component was the most anticipated element for SSBB, and for the most part it fulfills 
 the expectations. You can either play against random players, or against people on your friends 
 list. However, there are a few points of frustration I must address when it comes to the online 
 portion. For starters, the friend-code system is a little tiresome, since both you and whoever 
 you add to your list have to mutually add each other's codes which can get a bit confusing. It 
 would have been nice to see an option that lets you add the people that are matched up in the random 
 matches. My biggest gripe with the online is the difficulty that the system has in finding opponents. 
 I'm not sure whether this is an isolated case (I'm typing this from British Columbia, Canada for 
 those who are wondering.) or if this affects other servers as well. Just to note, it has been almost 
 three months since the release of this game, and I still run into lengthy matchmaking times.
  
  The graphics aren't going to be like anything on the PS3 or Xbox360, but there's definitely 
 a visual appeal to the cute characters and bright locals that you rip up during fights. The soundtrack 
 is nicely composed as well, veterans of the series and other Nintendo games will easily recognize 
 the various tunes played throughout the levels.
  
  SSBB isn't perfect, but it sure comes close. The game is just plain fun to play, and has a lot 
 of lasting value to be found in the multiplayer. However, some nagging online issues and the tiring 
 subspace emissary mode keep the game from achieving the 10. Fight-hungry fans and basically any 
 Wii owner can't go wrong with Super Smash Bros Brawl.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pedrolics
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 1:22 am PT
Review:  I just bought the game I think every Nintendo wii-er should have; Super Smash Bros. Brawl. The 
 game is fantastic, the concept of the game is no different from Super Smash Bros. Melee but this 
 time you don't get only Classic mode, you get the new story mode. Story mode is cool because now 
 there's a reason behind characters pounding the crud out of each other, displayed in beautifully 
 animated cut screens between each stage. This Super Smash Bros. game is probably thee most "action 
 packed in the series, the characters seem to do allot more damage then they did in Melee. Your 
 character at certain times can also do there finishing attack that almost K-Os your opponents every 
 time! There's a load of new characters that you can unlock either by playing brawl mode hundreds 
 of times or going through story mode. I give the game an overall rating of a 9.5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_freak1018
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  This new super smash bros game is the best game since melee, and with a whole lot of new stuff 
 for everyone to enjoy. The new game comes with an adventure mode that can unlock a whole bunch 
 of characters. The new home-run training has a forcefield so you can't accidentally knock it out. 
 It also comes with the new boss battles so you can battle each boss again. the multi-man and target 
 mode are very similar to melee. In this game you have a choice of 35 characters when you unlock 
 them all. The new replay mode lets you choose if you wanted to save the battle you just finished 
 and watch it later on or send it to your friends if you have wi-fi. The wi-fi on this game doesn't 
 have very good wi-fi but it's better than nothing. In this smash bros game you can collect cd's 
 during the match and listen to them later on. Stickers can be collected and stored in a sticker 
 book to use on your character and raise his\her power. Much more trophies are in this game and the 
 new way to get trophies is a new gun, you get to shoot trophies with your own coins and the more 
 you hit them the more they'll come to you. I can keep explaining for another hour but i'll just 
 say that i think super smash bros brawl would be the best game for the wii, actually, the best 
 game out of all games made yet!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smilesterXtrem5
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Got this game right when it came out. Ran to the Wii when I got home, and put the disc in. I was 
 amazed. The first battle i played made me just want to play even more. The subspace emissary is 
 awesome. It has a really good story behind it. i don't know what to say about it. When you press 
 A to start a level it gives you a choice in what skill level you want to do. I recommend easy for 
 the beginners. I beat it in hard. It wasn't very hard, but if this is your first time playing you 
 should do easy. Classic mode is still pretty entertaining. Target smashing is back, but now there 
 is 6 levels you can do in it. Multi-man melee is also back. There is a thing that lets you fight 
 all the bosses you meet in subspace emissary, but I think that you will have to beat subspace for 
 you to unlock that. Every part of this game is fun. Getting trophies, and stickers by shooting 
 a cannon, playing the old Nintendo games, and setting up your stickers to make cool pictures. Its 
 really fun to make your own stage. This is a game that has unlimited entertainment when your friends 
 come over. The characters are cool. A total of about 35. I'm not sure. There is much more in this 
 game that will keep you entertained. Get it if you have a Nintendo Wii. It is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_Master359
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome! I just got it yesterday and i luv it. I've played it nonstop and i just can't 
 keep myself from not playin it! Tha subspace emmisary is tha best thing in ssbb. tha story is very 
 cool and tha cutscenes are amazing! tha gameplay is easy and fun i use tha wii mote and nunchuck 
 tha graphics are top notch this game is for anyone! Tha events are challenging but not so much 
 that it makes ur head bleed but chalenging. This game is tha best of tha three. If u own a wii 
 go get it if not go and buy a wii to get this game.
  i have nothing else to say SSBB SSBB SSBB SSBBSSBB SSBB SSBB SSBB SSBB SSBB SSBB SSBB SSBB SSBB 
 SSBB SSBB SSBB SSBB SSBB SSBB SSBB SSBB SSBB SSBB SSBB SSBB Get this GAME!!!!!!!!!! Go out and 
 buy it!!!!!!!! SSBB SSBB SSBB SSBB SSBB SSBB SSBB ssbb ssbb ssbb ssbb ssbb ssbb ssbb ssbb ssbb 
 ssbb ssbb ssbb ssbb ssbb ssbb ssbb ssbb ssbb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErikWaters
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  With the appeal of both Goldeneye and Star Fox running thin with my middle school buddies and I, 
 the fighting game Super Smash Bros. came out just in time to keep the Nintendo 64 the king of multiplayer 
 consoles for its era. Being unlike any other fighting game played at the time, Super Smash Bros., 
 or just "Smash" as the more hardcore would later call it, used iconic characters and ideas from 
 the Nintendo universe to create an all-out brawl on nostalgia. Not only did Super Smash Bros. make 
 a special place in our tiny adolescent gamer hearts at the time, but apparently made the same impression 
 with millions of other gamers worldwide with close to 4.9 million copies sold to date.
  
  With the top-selling Gamecube sequel Super Smash Bros. Melee outselling its predecessor by over 
 two million copies, it's no wonder that the Smash Bros. license has become Nintendo's new go to 
 series for fans. Now with a somewhat new Nintendo system on the market, it's once again time to 
 jump into the nostalgia-filled fray with Super Smash Bros. Brawl on the Nintendo Wii.
  
  While the first Smash Bros. could be considered a proverbial "testing of water" game with Melee 
 adding to that formula, Super Smash Bros. Brawl is finally the step in the right direction the 
 series needed to take to become a well-rounded game. The many additions the new game brings to 
 the table are proof of that.
  
  To begin with, no longer are gamers stuck with simple classic single-player mode, as fighting through 
 the lineup up characters to reach the final boss is so Mortal Kombat. Brawl includes a surprisingly 
 in-depth single-player mode that mimics the wonderful 2D sidescrollers of Nintendo's yesteryear. 
 The levels are not only decently designed, but there are tons of them and every single one of them 
 is intercut with an amazingly cinematic FMV. The story is actually respectable as well, mixing 
 and matching players' favorite Nintendo characters to tell a story that makes players want to find 
 out what happens next.
  
  Some of the levels and enemies do tend to get a bit repetitive, not to mention the final level 
 "The Great Maze" is one of the most annoyingly tedious levels of all time, but the fact that players 
 without access to friends that game now have something to do for their $50 makes it easily overlooked.
 
  
  Besides an impressive single-player mode, multiplayer is back with a vengeance. The roster now 
 sports 35 characters (not all of which are of Nintendo fame, mind you) and 41 brand new and favored 
 old stages to fight on. But that's not nearly the best part. Now fans that find themselves bored 
 with these preset stages can use the new level editor to make their own smash dojos. This unlocks 
 almost unlimited level ideas and experiences, and sharing them with Wii friends is a breeze.
  
  But the funny thing is, that even with a level editor in tow, the majority of the preset levels 
 are absolutely leaps and bounds better than the predecessors'. The new Earthbound level is epic 
 is scope and gorgeous to look at, while the Pokemon Spear Pillar level has so much crazy stuff 
 going on it's hard to tell up from down, literally, but nothing compares to the old school homage 
 to retro gaming like a Donkey Kong, Mario Bros., or Game and Watch stage.
  
  With a brand new story mode, characters, levels, and a level editor, it's hard to imagine anything 
 else Nintendo could squeeze onto this disc to make fans happier. But they squeeze on anyways. The 
 soundtrack to this game is phenomenal, the trophies have once again returned to collect via a new 
 mini-game (not to mention the inclusion of stickers now) , the unlockables will take weeks to achieve, 
 and finally, the coup de grace, online multiplayer.
  
  Unlike the yesteryear of my middle school days, no longer are we as gamers forced to squeeze in 
 front of a television to play. Sure it's a closer bonding experience, but friends constantly come 
 and go. Now friends can go, but always be on call for a quick smash or two miles away. Even though 
 Nintendo still intends to neuter any respectable source of online play with friend codes and no 
 speech support, just the fact that one can play and observe smash fans from around the country 
 is enough reason to be happy.
  
  With all the praise aforementioned, a few things trip up Super Smash Bros. Brawl from becoming 
 the perfect gaming experience, such as the literal "tripping" that characters now have a tendency 
 to do when dashing for some reason. Also, more building parts and space would have been appreciated 
 for the truly inventive at heart and of course I could always make the argument for more characters, 
 stages, weapons, and ideas, but that would be me being greedy for a game that already does so much 
 more than its previous installment.
  
  The bottom-line is this, if you have a Nintendo Wii and you love Smash Bros., this game must be 
 yours. On the other hand, if you have a Wii and have never had the chance to play Smash Bros., 
 this game must also be yours. I'd would even go so far as to say, if you don't have a Wii and have 
 never even heard of Smash Bros., then seek one out for the sole purpose of picking up Brawl and 
 enjoying. The game is chock full of fun and is capable of bringing back the fondest nostalgic memories 
 of any old school gamer at heart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrankDK1995
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  As I said in the summary, GREAT AWESOME FANTASTIC!
  This is one of the greatest games I have ever played! No wait, I think it is the greatest game 
 I have ever played. It has got a thousand new people to play as, a thousand new places to play 
 at, aaaaaaaaaand WI-FI! YIPPEEEE!
  WI-FI ROCKS ON THIS GAME! It is the best! you can play people anonymously or your friends! you 
 can even watch and bet on other peoples matches! oh and I forgot to say and best of all! it has 
 a story line! The Subspace emissary! It is so cool! it has an awesome story to it! but in the end 
 you have to face this really hard guy named taboo and it is really hard! he is so tough it is not 
 even funny! But anyways unlocking most of the people is so much easyier in this game! you unlock 
 most of them through subspace emissary! if you choose to do it that way that is! you can unlock 
 them earlier if you want. there are some characters that you cant unlock in subspace emissary. 
 like wolf for example. in summarization, this game rooooooooooocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkDSpro63
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  You were first introduced to the Smash universe with Super Smash Bros. on N64. You were given more 
 characters and more a refreshing and competitive feel with Melee. What will you get out of Brawl? 
 Well, you'll get a hell of a lot more than the past two installments
  
  First off, the game includes an all-star cast of 35 Nintendo characters, which the largest Smash 
 roster yet. All 12 Smash veterans are back along with several others returning from Melee and some 
 new additions to the roster as well. Some of the new characters include Meta Knight, King Dedede, 
 Diddy Kong, and even Third-Party characters including Solid Snake and Sonic. A big plus is that 
 all the new characters (excluding some cloned, I'm watching you Falco and Wolf -.-) have their 
 own original move-set which creates more variety than Melee (which had a considerable amount of 
 clones) .
  
  Smash Bros. has never been known any story at all, but Brawl comes with an immensive one called 
 The Subspace Emmisary. To put it simply, gameplay is okay at first, then it becomes extremely repetitive 
 and does not feel as fresh as the multiplayer. There are also stickers which you can stick on your 
 characters to increase stats, like an RPG. The cutscenes, however, are simply gorgeous and probably 
 a good reason to be playing S. E. Other than that, S. E. is really just an alternative to unlock 
 all the characters and collect trophies.
  
  Let's get down to what Smash Bros. does best. MULTIPLAYER!! Like the previous Smash Bros. installments, 
 Brawl continues the hectic muliplayer it's known for with a couple of enhancements. One big one 
 is Smash Balls. Obtaining one of these will allow a character to unleash a devastating attack, 
 perfect for changing the outcome of a match. Also, thanks to a variety of characters and original 
 move-sets, each character (excluding clones) relies on a different strategy. Each player can choose 
 which character best suits their play-style. That'll be easy, considering there are 35 total characters 
 to choose from (once you unlock some of course) and there are fewer clones this time around. Another 
 awesome feature is Brawl's online. Let's get this straight. It's not, say, Xbox Live immensive 
 online play, but it's fast (most the time) , it's casual, it's simple, and you can jump right in 
 right away.
  
  One issue concerning Brawl is online. Here's why: No ranking system, no talking, no changing settings 
 in random matches, friend codes -.- (I know Nintendo loves friend codes for safety reasons, but 
 still) . Brawl's online is really fun almost lag-free, but it could always be better, considering 
 there are a lot of competitive smash players around the world. Another issue is Subspace Emmisary. 
 I talked about how the gameplay sucks, but then again, S. E. is optional. You can still unlock the 
 characters the old-fashioned way. 
  
  Concluding all the long, and boring stuff I just said. SMASH BROS. BRAWL IS TOTALLY GREAT!! Brawl 
 has the stuff: Awesome multiplayer, online, event mode (now co-op) , tons of characters, good visuals 
 for a wii game, and a beautiful orchestrated soundtrack that includes original tracks along with 
 remastered versions of classic Nintendo tunes. This is a 100% recommendation. Come one folks. Your 
 Wii has probably been collecting dust for the past couple months. It's time to put it in good use. 
 Closing off, Brawl is a welcome addition to the Smash franchise and you're gonna be playing it 
 for a long, long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-man45
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  As I had played Melee before (and loved it!) naturally I had to get this game. And I must say it 
 has been improved on greatly in many areas.
  
  Gameplay.
  Brawl boasts 35 different characters this time around, each with their own special abilities. You 
 can choose between two types of matches: team battle and Brawl. A "Brawl" consists of four players 
 battling it out for a minimum of two minutes to claim the top spot and bragging rights. During 
 the match special items will spawn on the stage that you can use as an added tool to pwn your friends 
 with. Team battle is two players fighting the other two players on a team. 
  For the most part the characters regular attacks are well balanced in a match, until a final smash 
 ball makes its appearance. These little orbs can be broken by players that gives them the ability 
 to unleash a super special attack that can sometimes wipe out every other player on the stage, 
 sometimes drastically changing the course of the match. Sometimes a player who has not gotten a 
 point the whole match can unleash their final smash and end up winning! Luckily, these can be turned 
 off, along with all other helpful items. There are many new stages as well as some returning stages 
 from Melee like Jungle Japes and Onnet! There is also a single player adventure mode called the 
 Subspace Emissary. It follows a story which eventually introduces 34 of the 35 characters. (the 
 35 can be unlocked a different way.) While this is primarily single player it can also be two players. 
 Also in single player mode are stadium events, events, classic and all star mode. There are also 
 a series of challenges that you can do to unlock trophies and music. Also, there is a stage builder 
 where you can create your own stage! Additional parts can be unlocked by creating a certain number 
 of stages with the parts already unlocked. There is also Nintendo WFC.
  
  Graphics. The graphics have to be good in a 3D fighting game and... they are amazing.
  
  Sound. 
 Nice selection of music unique to each stage.
  
  Lasting Appeal. This game can be played with friends for ever and ever!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REgrl4life
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  A lot of money was on their game, probably to much, but Nintendo sure knows how to satisfy their 
 gamers appetites with the next game in their Super Smash Bros franchise. Overall, their fighting 
 franchise has brought us hours upon hours of kicking the butt out of characters such as Kirby (Kirby 
 in dreamland) , Link (The legend of Zelda) , Zelda (Same as Link) , and ect. They also gave us some 
 new comers, such as, Snake, (Metal Gear Solid.) , Sonic. (Sonic the Hedgehog) , and Lucario (Pokemon) . 
 This time around their is more new content. Such as new stages, new outfits, and the new stage 
 builder.
  
  One new feature is the stage builder. This new addition lets you create your own stage. You can 
 add spikes, to Stairs. Unlocking updates gives you more items such as trees and floating platforms. 
 You can trade the maps over Wi-Fi, and get new maps from friends around the world.
  
  And that brings us to one of Brawls flaws, and to one of their key points. Wi-Fi. Brawl comes as 
 the first Super Smash Bros. game to support Wi-Fi connection. You can ether play in a team, where 
 one team is Blue, and the other is Red, or you can play solo, where you all duke it out. Their 
 is also a spectator option, which lets you bet on one team, (or one player,) and if you win, you 
 get coins you can spend on games, or machines that gets you trophies, or stickers. But that brings 
 us to the flaws. The only flaw in Super Smash Bros. Brawl, is the online play. when you are online, 
 (trust me, this happened to everybody about the first 2 weeks it came out.) You, and other players, 
 suffered sever Lag. which means, when you are playing, it might start to slow down. or in rare 
 conditions. (Not that rare anymore.) It would cancel you out of the game, no question asked. Its 
 because of the many players going online at once, wanting to show their skills against other players.
 
  
  As I said, Brawl is the game that no one will forget for a long time, hoping that Nintendo keeps 
 pumping out more in the franchise, hoping to make veterans, or newcomers, happy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: paladinofmana
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  When i was really little, i played super smash bros, my 4th video game ever, it was i that moment, 
 i "met" Link. and that's where my interest in LoZ spawned. but more on that later. that day i was 
 amazed by links moves and i him and Mario could fight. i told myself it was a 10/10. When i played 
 Melee, it only made things even better, new players, new levels, everything you could want. then... after 
 1 Year. of visiting the website every day, checking updates, watching video's. i walked in my house 
 to find it waiting for me (Thank you mom ^.^) and i have to say, the opening cut scene i didnt even 
 skip. i watched in awe. then i wasted not a second, i quickly picked up the game cube controller 
 and selected Link VS Dark Link and stock 1x and fought. that match right there on Final Destination 
 already made a 10/10.
  but the SSE. it was almost as close to my heart as Ocarina of Time is. it really made you think. 
 about everything. it made all those characters human. they where good between evil, the teamed 
 up, the made misunderstandings, the would have funny situations every now and then, and blended 
 all the games PERFECT. no patches. an example is when you watch link pull out the master sword, 
 after that he walks by and See's Yoshi sleeping. IN a forest, where the master sword is, it makes 
 since. i was never thinking "What the heck is going on here?!!" and watching the cut scene by the 
 name of "The Great Invasion" i couldn't stop but think, "it is all worth it, every second i spent 
 waiting for the game, every second they spent making the game. it was all worth it" i recommend 
 this game for ALL ages. because it teaches what really matters. Team Work. Friendship, and understanding. 
 i can't more highly recommended this game. may the smash series last forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeWierd20
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  The first instalment of the series that came out was brilliant for it's age. Fun, fair graphics, 
 good stages, and even a good number of characters from most of Nintendo's best games to boot! No 
 one could ask for more... Until now.
  
  Nowdays, as the third game to be released, this game has made a brilliant star appearance, making 
 copies of the game fly off of store shelves. Did it surprise anyone? No. Because almost everyone 
 know's just how good this game is. Let's begin with the basics: Graphics...
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  Truely amazing for the Wii, and it's so cranked up since the last game that 
 I'm not afraid to give it a 10 out of 10. Ike's cape and Link's cap will flap around in wind realisticly, 
 and shadows have been improved. Special effects have made the game look even more beutiful than 
 ever, and character's faces and clothing look almost real. Literaly, almost real.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  Character's galor (There's even a character from Metal Gear Solid and Sonic) ! 
 Even more characters from age-old NES games star in this one-of-a-kind game. Meta KNight and King 
 Dedede, Poke'mon trainer, and Lucario... The list goes on and on! With more Characters than before, 
 and more items than ever, this game couldn't get any sweater. Speaking of new items, the brand 
 new "final smash ball" is a brand new object that occasionaly hovers around the screen. When enough 
 damage is dealt to it, the last person to finaly destroy the ball will obtain the ability to temporairly 
 use their "FinalSmash". Uppon using the FinalSmash attack, the Player will unleash their characters 
 ultimate move, which ranges character from character.
  
  Mario's FinalSmash is a giant fire blast, and Link's is a series of rapid attacks upon a character 
 traped inside a Tri-Force realm.
  
  There are improved game modes (stadium games, event mode, multiplayer modes, etc.) , as well as 
 a brand new cinamatic story mode, "The Subspace Emissary". I'm not going to spoil anything about 
 it, so I'll just say this: It's long, fun, and can be played in single or co-op mode.
  
  Music: 10/10
  
  Every stage (except for one) is equiped with attleast 5 different songs ranging 
 from almost every popular game around that Nintendo made. Some song's underwhent remixes that make 
 them sound even better than before. You are now given the chance to change the chance of each song 
 coming in up randomly in the options menu.
  
  Replay Value: 10/10
  
  Almost everything that makes this game up has been improved beyond my belief!!! You can have more 
 trophies to collect, and now new stickers (stickers are just like the trophies, only without profiles 
 and are 2-D) Classical Story mode is back, and the brand new Story mode even features several different 
 difficulty levels, so you'll almost NEVER get tired of it! Online play has been introduced, and 
 your taunts can be customized so that your character displays a message above their head whenever 
 you use them online (speaking of which, every character now has 3 different taunts) . Every single 
 stage is completely unique. In addition to playing stages from Super Smash Brothers Melee, you 
 can now, never before, CREATE your own CUSTOM STAGES. You can change the theme, the layout, the 
 music, and even the background of every stage you make! ... and by the way, there's now a stage 
 modeling after the DS's built in "Pictochat".
  
  
  Well, that's the main stuff of the game for you! It's fun, you can replay it in any of the modes 
 again and again, and never get tired of it. Characters have different color stiles (you can turn 
 Link into DarkLink! Yipee!) , different moves, and better looks, too. Every single thing was improved. 
 What else could you want? Terrific job Nintendo. Another masterpiece to the collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xela8
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  My favorite character is "Pit", well, never mine my favorite characters, but very well done. New 
 characters, lot's of strong attacks, and even great storyline. I can kick the CPUs butts and everything. 
 I have won many many times with the character "Pit" and "Kirby" That's why I always use Pit, because 
 I'm very smart with him. I believe that I'm very awesome at this game. I know everyone likes this 
 game including my lil sis. And the storyline was absoultly great. These are my ratings:
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  Multiplayer: 10/10
  
  Fight rateting: 10/10
 
  
  Storyline: 10/10
  
  Behaviors: 10/10
  
  Sounds: 9/10
  
  Challenges: 10/10
  
  That means I like this game a lot. It is so awesome with special attacks and lot's of other 
 things. You'll get very impressive with them. This fighting game is a lot fun then used to other 
 fighting games in our World. What other fighting games do you like? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heidi564
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is worth playing, but if you get to hyped up with the controls, the characters will slip 
 and fall from something. I couldn't believe it. My big sister with user name "xela8" is really 
 good at this game. She always kills the hell out of me with Pit. This is probably her favorite 
 character. She knows all the controls, and on Melee, She is always wanted my favorite character 
 "Kirby" or "Ice climbers" I cannot believe that. I need to get these charcaters as quick as I can. 
 Ok, the storyline was Brillent. We beated this game to.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10 the gameplay was great. A lot of better controls.
  
  Graphics: 10/10 the Graphics 
 are perfect for this nintendo game for the 2000s then the 1900s.
  
  Controls: 10/10 I can control well.
  
  Behaviors: 8/10 the behaviors were a little off because 
 of the slipping and falling, but nothing wrong with the CPUs or the controls.
  
  CPUs: 10/10 the CPUs were easy to kick butts with if you know all the controls for the attacks 
 and play them over and over again.
  
  Multiplayer: 9/10 I would love to play with my sister, but shes to smart at this game.
  
  Challenges: 
 8/10 I would rather give this a 8 because my sister is way too cool at this game.
  
  Storyline: 10/10 I told you that the storyline was brillent, or rather be nice.
  
  Well that's 
 all I'm going to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lordconcon
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  *SSBB offers a wide variety of modes. This is a great thing so that players never get bored with 
 the game.
  *There are numerous collectibles ranging from characters and stages to trophies and stickers. Trying 
 to get all of these will take you quite a long time.
  *The challenges in the game offer a some easy going missions for beginners to some backbreaking 
 challenges for experts. Plus, the rewards you get for the challenges make them all the more appealing.
 
  *There are characters 35 playable characters total in the game. And most of them have their own 
 unique set of moves. And though it may seem hard to believe at times, The characters are all well 
 balanced. This is one thing that can make or break the game but Smash bros delivers.
  *Multiplayer is something that you always want to do. This game was made for competition and for 
 teamwork. SSBB is a much funner game when you are playing with your friends.
  
  The Bad:
  *The only really bad thing is that some of the characters (Wolf, Lucas, Toon link) have the same 
 moves as some other character. This is annoying at times but is still not bad enough to make the 
 game any less entertaining.
  
  
  SSBB is a great game for everyone who has ever played it in the past. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathScape666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 8:38 am PT
Review:  If you own a Wii, you probably have been looking forward to Super Smash Brothers Brawl. Although 
 the countless delays have been frustrating, they have been more than worth it. Super Smash Brothers 
 Brawl is the best multiplayer experience I've ever had the honor of playing.
  
  The game seems relatively simple. You choose between time, stock, and coin mode. Time mode is just 
 whoever can get the most kills in the allotted time. In stock mode, everyone has a certain number 
 of lives, and the last person standing wins. Coin mode is something fun and different. The more 
 you hurt the other opponents, the more coins that come out of them. Then you try to collect the 
 coins. There's also special things you can do, like Super Sudden Death, have everyone be bad, have 
 everyone be invisible, and a number of other things.
  
  After you're done messing with the settings, you choose from one of thirty-five different characters. 
 Each of them have their own abilities, and you may find that you are better with a slow, powerful 
 character rather than a fast, weak character. The characters, aside from Sonic and Solid Snake, 
 are from Nintendo games over the years. There's Princess Peach from the Mario series, Lucas from 
 Mother 3, Link from The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, Meta Knight from the Kirby series, 
 the Ice Climbers from the Ice Climbers game, Lucario from Pokemon Diamond Version and Pokemon Pearl 
 version, and many, many more characters.
  
  After that, you pick a stage, and they are all from an area in a past game. There's Isle Delfino 
 from Super Mario Sunshine, Eldin Bridge from The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, Flat-Zone 
 2 from Mr. Game Watch's game, and so on. Each level is very different from one another, and more 
 events take place than the past Super Smash Brothers games. In almost every single level, there'll 
 be some type of event that will make the battles even more interesting. In Pokemon Stadium 2, the 
 battle arena is constantly changing. In the Wario Ware stage, you'll have to do what the screen 
 says (Taunt, for example.) to either become really big or invincible. In the Picto Chat stage, 
 drawings will appear that may blow you away, hurt you, or do other things.
  
  The battles seem so simple, but it's not a typical button masher where you have to memorize a bunch 
 of combinations of buttons to become good. You have three basic buttons that'll you'll be using. 
 Shielding is done with Z, R, B, as with rolling. Then there's the A and B attacks. The character 
 will do different moves depending the direction and button you click. If you're Mario and click 
 just B, for example, he'll shoot fireballs. But if you direct the analog stick to the right or 
 left, he'll take his cape out and whip at someone.
  
  You try to do as much damage to the other opponents as possible. There can either be two, three, 
 or four people battling at once. You try to get their damage ratio really high, and then you do 
 a powerful move to hit them off the edge of the screen or send them flying in the air. Usually, 
 their damage ratio will be in the 100's before you do this.
  
  What's even cooler than fighting with your favorite Nintendo characters at your favorite Nintendo 
 locations? Taking items from Nintendo games and then using them to own the people you're fighting 
 against! You can throw bananas, pitfalls, boxes, bob-ombs, and a number of other things from all 
 types of Nintendo games. It's really cool how all the items from Nintendo games have some type 
 of way of hurting you.
  
  The multiplayer mode is what you'll be playing the most, and it's easily the most fun part of the 
 game. You can go online in this addition, and it's awesome because, with your friends, you can 
 do as much with them as you can if you guys were playing offline. The online can get laggy at times, 
 but it's still awesome.
  
  There are many other modes to keep you busy, like All-Star mode where you just fight all the characters 
 in the game. There's Boss Battle mode where you fight ten bosses trying to kill them. There's Home-Run 
 Contest where you hit a sandbag with a baseball bat and try to send it flying as far as possible. 
 There's Multi-Man Brawl where you fight five weird looking enemies, and try to kill as many as 
 possible. There are Event matches that have you do certain tasks in order to win. There's a heck 
 of a lot more, too. The main thing is the Subspace Emissary. It's an eight hour long quest that 
 can be played cooperatively or just by yourself.
  
  The biggest problem with the Subspace Emissary is that it's just not a lot of fun. There are platforming 
 segments that you'll have to repeat over and over again and you'll fight the same enemies over 
 and over again. It just becomes very repetitive after awhile, and it isn't very fun to begin with. 
 It's probably the most boring and tedious part of the game. There are tons of cut-scenes that try 
 to convey some type of story of all the characters coming together to fight some evil force, but 
 there's no voice acting or written dialogue. It's done very well, but I really wish there could've 
 been at least some dialogue, even though most of Nintendo's characters are mute.
  
  There's a stage builder, and while it sounds awesome in theory, it isn't implemented as well as 
 you'd like. You can unlock more parts and such, but you'll still end up with just a few basic parts 
 and not much more. You can choose your own song to go with the stage which I think is really awesome, 
 but when it comes to making your stage, you'll feel limited by the options they give you. Still, 
 it is fun to make, and you'll probably craft some pretty awesome battle arenas. I just wish there 
 was more to it.
  
  There are tons of unlockables. On top of unlocking characters and stages, you can also unlock trophies, 
 stickers, and CDs. The trophies and stickers seem to be user merely for collectables, but the stickers 
 have a bit more usefulness to them. The CDs, on the other hand, are songs from all types of Nintendo 
 games. There are over 300 songs and they all rock. Seriously, this game has some of the best music, 
 ever. They take the best music from the best Nintendo games, and sometimes even remix them. Sometimes 
 I will play a certain stage just so I can hear the amazing music. There isn't a game with a better 
 music selection than Super Smash Brothers Brawl. You'll find almost every song from every Nintendo 
 game you loved in this game.
  
  The graphics are superb for a Wii game. There's so much going on in the battles that they can't 
 look as good as, say, Super Mario Galaxy, but they are still nice to look at. This game couldn't 
 hold its frame-rate at sixty frames per second if it was on the GameCube. It really uses the Wii 
 power to the fullest.
  
  Also, there are four different control schemes you can use: The GameCube/WaveBird controller, the 
 Wii Remote alone, The Wii Remote and Nunchuck, or the Classic Controller. Personally, I think the 
 GameCube/WaveBird controller is the only way to go, but you may think differently.
  
  In the end, Super Smash Brothers Brawl is easily one of the best games the system has to offer. 
 It's packed with tons of options and modes that will have you playing for hours on end. Seriously, 
 I just got this game three months ago and have already played it for over one hundred hours. I 
 know I'm not even close to becoming done yet. It's not a traditional fighter, but it's the best 
 fighter because it's so different and unique. All your favorite Nintendo characters, locales, songs, 
 and items/weapons are here. This feels like the most complete package Nintendo has ever had the 
 honor of giving us. They've poured their hearts and souls into this game, and it really shows. 
 If you have a Wii and are a die-hard Nintendo fan, then there's no excuse for not getting this 
 game. If you don't have a Wii, then this game may be the reason you'll get one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stargui
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2008 5:01 am PT
Review:  This is my first review, so I'll try to make my best shot with my favorite game. I hope you like 
 it, so, as Mario would say, here we go!!
  
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is a really outstanding game, with a really extensive gameplay and music 
 options, it's real 3D graphics, you'll be playing Brawl for at least Three months WITHOUT stopping. 
 That's why my parents prohibbited me from playing it on my test's week... Anyway, Brawl is awesome 
 and that's what I wanna say.
  
  Was it really a 10 or did I add some points?
  Like Gamespot, I review games by their gameplay, graphics, audio, value, but not tilt. I review 
 price, if it's worth buiyng it or not.
  
  Gameplay - 10/10
  Graphics - 10/10
  Audio - 9.5/10 - Some musics are really nostalgic.
  Value - 9.8/10 - It depends if you are really 
 a true fan of Brawl.
  Price - 10/10
  
  Total (average) - 9,86 - Indeed I added 0.14, to make it 10, c'mon it deserves it.
  
  If you 
 agree/disagree message me in Gamespot telling why.
  
  Until the next review,
  See ya!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WNxSilverLink
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Ok Super Smash Brothers Is Back Again for another romp on the Wii. Pretty good stuff to find here 
 as usual. You got a decent roster of Nintendo All-stars from which you can chose and the variety 
 of stages from which you can fight on. The roster goes pretty deep from Mario and Luigi all the 
 way to the likes of R. O. B Snake and Sonic and each character with the respective stage or stages 
 to go along with it. Items Arent Mixed up too much with a couple of new ones and the return of 
 the old ones like the Bumper and so on. The Smash Ball makes as the games biggest change in items. 
 With enough hits you can use this item to unlesh a special devistating move. On to the single player. 
 Yes its an intresting single player mode but after you get half way through it starts to become 
 more of an annoyance but its a fun story to play and will be time consuming as well especially 
 from a fighter. The fact that you can unlock all the characters in the single player mode can remove 
 some unwanted game time and be placed elsewhere so its a nice addition. Of course Brawl is gonna 
 be played mostly for its multiplayer. Its use of online further expands this wonderful game, but 
 at the same time shows how faulty Nintendos Online Support hinders this great game. The adding 
 of codes of people you only know and the waste of an EXTRA code to add is just annoying. Also sometimes 
 there can be a lag issue but when that gets removed online is smooth and fluid but another thing 
 is that you only get two choice of battle, team and free for all both last for 2 min. Some would 
 enjoy stock or different settings. But overall its an amazing game and it makes me put down my 
 360 controller just so i can play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Desulated
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 7, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  SSBB is definitely a step up from the old super smash games. Wtih new control schemes, battlefields 
 and the awesome new characters make this game one of the best i've ever played! This game deserves 
 a perfect in my opinion. The cost is also worth it! $49.99 for a game you'll be playing for years 
 on end!
  
  New control schemes: SSBB has definitely made my life easier with simpler controls than SSBM. the 
 controls in SSBM were hard to memorize (i rarely played that game so yeah) but in this game I got 
 them down in like 5 minutes.
  
  Battlefields: Ok, so they've taken out Dream Land, one of my favorite levels, but they still kept 
 the original Hyrule Castle and Brinstar from the original games. The new battlefields, however, 
 are still awesome- the new Final Destination map seriously kicks some hind, while new additions 
 like the Space Pirate Frigate level has some cool remix music (Metroid Fusion anyone?) Not to mention 
 the twists they throw at you (The frigate level actually flips out. I mean, literally!)
  
  Characters: The new addition of new fighters makes this game more interesting and more options 
 for combat. New characters like Pit, Wario and the Pikmin guy (can't remember his name) become 
 selectable fighters, while most of the old characters return. Sonic the Hedgehog and Solid Snake 
 from Metal Gear also become selectable combatents! Characters like Samus also has a twist (lol 
 i'll let u figure that out by urself) Everyone has a "superweapon" known as a Final Smash, and 
 most of them can wipe out the entire competition in one attack if used properly.
  
  So after my brief explaination, GET THIS GAME!!! It is definitely the best game for the Wii, no 
 questions asked. It's great for parties, multiplayer fun, and family fun! Even though its a bit 
 pricey, this game will blow you away in terms of fun and addiction! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cluelesspug
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 7, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is the best in the smash bros. series by far. Although, I do wish it had 
 better online play. It is very choppy and it's very annoying to me.
  
  I also wish they had a wider assortment of characters to choose from.
  Some of the characters 
 I think should have been in are...
  
  1. Roy should have come back
  2. Mewtwo should have come back too.
  3. Birdo would have been pretty cool.
  4. Dry Bones
 
  5. Bowser Jr.
  6. Waluigi should be playable, not an assist trophy.
  7. As should Shadow the Hedgehog.
  8. King Boo would rock.
  9. More members of the Kong family 
 like Funky and Dixie.
  10. Daisy
  11. Baby Mario
  12. Baby Luigi
  13. Krystal
  14. Knuckles the Echidna
  
  Another bad thing about this game is that the Subspace Emissary 
 can be very very very very boring and very poorly explains what is going on. In my opinion anyway.
 
  
  The good things about this game are endless though.
  
  Great graphics, great gameplay, huge variety of game modes, tons of things to unlock, tons of different 
 items to use, ability to take photos, ability to create your own stages, ability to record just 
 about anything under 3 minutes long, fun that lasts, and it's family friendly.
  
  And with this game can come the best feeling ever...
  
  COMPLETELY OWNING YOUR FRIENDS WITH 
 A FINAL SMASH. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G-Ivanski
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 7, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl has been one of the most anticipated games to come out on the wii and it 
 sure brings a lot of great fun into the wii. The space embassy is a pretty cool story mode that 
 gives you a nostalgic feel of playing an old nintendo 2D side scrolling classic except with updated 
 graphics. This also makes a start by adding non nintendo characters into the scene such as Solid 
 Snake and Sonic. Hopefully on the next Brawl, they would add more characters like Dante, Ken (from 
 Street Fighter) , Spider-Man, Knuckles, Redman (inside joke) , etc.
  
  The graphics in this game aren't Xbox 360/PlayStation 3 superior looking type of graphics but for 
 the Wii console, they still look pretty amazing. Everything looks pretty gorgeous on the game.
 
  
  Controls, highly recommend having a Gamecube controller. The wii remote just isn't that much fun 
 and you really don't even use the motion sensors at all on there so a controller such as Gamecube 
 one or even a classic controller is definitely a must have for this game.
  
  Sound is pretty impressive. You don't really hear them talk because Nintendo characters traditionally 
 never talk on scenes but David Hayter still does Snake's voice on this game (originally, I thought 
 the Japanese version of Snake would only be on this game) and it's pretty cool hearing the MGS 
 hero being on one of the nintendo's finest video games.
  
  Online. I will say it adds a lot more to Super Smash Bros series than it ever did, allowing you 
 to play with your friends and what not online. But nintendo being very overprotective, you have 
 to separately trade in wii numbers and make sure each one gets added. It can be a very complicated 
 process and the worst part is that there is NO communication. If the wii had a service like Xbox 
 Live then Brawl online would be PERFECT.
  
  Overall, this game is very satisfying and if you are wanting a wii specifically for this game, 
 definitely go for it. The space embassy is a pretty fun and you can't go wrong having friends come 
 over and compete with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CloudStrife645
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 7, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl is just amazing that's really all I could put it at. It has 32 playable 
 characters so you have plenty of variety for characters. There are 40 stages and a stage builder 
 so you have thousands maybe millions of stage options. There are tons of unique items to use such 
 as the hammer, golden hammer, bombs, and much, much more. There are tons of custom rules like do 
 you want a lightweight metal battle? Or a Heavy 300% battle tons of options. There are tons of 
 ways to play with friends. There is regular match with 3 modes Stock, Time, and Coin, There is 
 tournament with 64 people per. Then you have online which is great, but it can be laggy. There 
 is single player with Subspace Emissery which can be played with 2 people. There is classic from 
 Super Smash Bros 1. You have events and co-op events. Then there is the training mode and the stadium. 
 The stadium has 4 things called Target Smash, Home Run Contest, Boss Battles, MultiMan Brawl. MultiMan 
 Brawl is when you find tons of Alloys it can be quite a challenge but there is co-op for it now. 
 Then you have the tons of unlockables which is great and tons of trophys and stickers to collect. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  I was first introduced to this series over at a friend's house years ago, when the original Super 
 Smash Bros came out for the N64. I found the game to be good fun, and hilarious, so when Melee 
 came out for the Gamecube years later I picked it up and enjoyed it. Now the third game has come 
 out for the Wii, and while it's definitely an improvement over the last two there are elements 
 of Brawl that bother me greatly.
  
  Essentially Brawl is a fighting game like its predecessors, of course the BRAWL in the title should 
 have given that away. Essentially, you pick a character, and combat up to three opponents (or customize 
 team games) on one of the game's many unique stages. The character selection is also quite large 
 giving you a lot of replayability should you tire of beating the snot out of Pikachu with Princess 
 Peach. Essentially the gameplay comes down to attempting to knock your opponents out of the arena 
 by damaging them, though; there are many ways to actually modify how the game plays most of them 
 usually end up involving that core aspect of the gameplay. This is different than most fighting 
 games, though barely, but I still find it to be refreshing two games later.
  
  Brawl gets brownie points for allowing me to beat the snot out of Mario with Sonic. Since Sonic 
 was a childhood hero of mine (before the dark times, before he went 3D) it was quite satisfying 
 to knock that short, fat plumber out of the arena with him. Too bad it takes forever to unlock 
 Sonic. It's unfortunate that Brawl falls into the same trap as every other fighting game out there, 
 you have to unlock every little thing; characters, stages, music, mini-games, heck even parts for 
 the game's already simplistic stage builder need to be unlocked by meeting specific prerequisites. 
 Nintendo doesn't seem to take into account that a lot of people either don't have the time, or 
 simply the motivation to unlock every little thing and this drags the game down considerably.
 
  
  Visually Brawl isn't too impressive as it's barely a step above Melee. In fact, I'd argue that 
 it's just Melee in a higher resolution. Characters that appeared in the Gamecube predecessor look 
 exactly the same as they did back then, and the new content isn't a significant step up in quality. 
 Fortunately, I care little about graphics.
  
  Audio wise Brawl is pretty good. The numerous amount of musical tracks is mostly remixes of classic 
 video game songs, or rips of classic video game songs. An interesting feature in Brawl is how every 
 stage has a playlist where you can choose the playing frequency of certain songs allowing you to 
 customize what plays, and how often a little bit. Other than that there's very little to say about 
 the audio.
  
  Super Smash Bros Brawl is a pretty entertaining game. I haven't bought into the hype machine like 
 a lot of people, but it's nice to play something that's a bit different from the norm, and is exceptional 
 in quality to boot. If you didn't have to unlock every small thing, it might have even received 
 a 9.0 from this jaded gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kovuchu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is the reason why I go to my friend's house EVERY weekend day. He does'nt mind. It's 
 Brawl. Bottom line. It's a great game, if there were game awards to win like a grammy or a emmy 
 this game would definatly win'em all. No dought in my mind... My friend has already beaten the 
 game (no suprise there) so I could enjoy the "coolness" of all the characters at once. He said 
 it was worth every minute camping outside Gamespot doors to get this game. He even got the glory 
 of being the first person to get Brawl. Lucky guy. This is exactly why I NEED a Wii. I have pushed 
 my parents to get one, but they always answer me with one answer, It's expensive. Huh. Right. But 
 anyways, I really enjoy having 3rd party characters like Snake in brawl. It's a good twist for Nintendo. 
 Me and I hope many other people enjoy this. This is definatly the game of the year for Nintendo 
 AND the Wii itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TgunXD
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 6, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Attacks- Like the new final smash system. Other attacks fit the characters' tiers.
  Items- Alot of cheep items, but that can be fun.
  Strategies- You need skill, smarts and speed 
 to defeat this game. 
  Characters- Most of the choices are good, but characters like Toon Link and Wolf are unnecessary 
 clones. Also, Mario has 8 cjharacters while Sonic has 1... WTF?
  Music- Most are good, but there are those songs that you will hate.
  Graphics- Characters, amazing. 
 Background, beautiful. Assist trophies and pokemon, pitiful! Looks like characters from N64 games.
 
  Gamemodes- Alot of gamemodes. The new trophy shooting mode is the only one you should hate.
  Wifi- Only play with your friends. 
  Story/story mode- needs more dialogue, and sonic, but it 
 is good.
  Coolness- Amazing 
  Bosses- The strength and speed of the bosses depend on the level you fight them on. The hardest 
 bosses- Galleom (Large attack radius, hard to avoid) Rayquaza (Fast attacks and large hp) and Porky 
 (Hard to attack or avoid) . Tabuu is actually easy, on one condition, his off waves (a giant explosion 
 that causes instant kos) .
  ESBR Rating- T rating might be accurate due to Solid Snake being from a M rated universe, you don't 
 want 6 year olds fighting war games.
  
  rating- 9.8, needed more 3rd party characters (shadow deserves to be playable) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Namaru94
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 5, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  Falcon PAUNCH!
  
  Super Smash Bros Brawl. Mmmm, good game pretty much. Why is it not great you ask? Kinda like an 
 upgraded Melee with a few new characters and items. Gets boring as hell after you play the game 
 a lot. Do I have a Wii? No. My neighbor does and we played it so much. Now it's boring as crap. 
 But the game was really good. The reason it was good? Play through the story. There is actually 
 cutscenes and a storyline, which makes this game very very fun. Don't play online because Wifi 
 connection blows, so after you tap the A button hit me down with a 2 second time limit before CAPTAIN 
 FALCON ACTUALLY STARTS HIS Falcon PAUNCH! But anyway, for all you Wii owners, buy this game and 
 enjoy it, because it is and probably always be one of the only good Wii games for the Wii. So, 
 until my next review, i'm  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mechatac
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  When Brawl was announced, back when I didn't have a Wii, I couldn't wait to play it either. Its 
 actually the resaon I finally woke up early enough to get a Wii at Target one morning about a week 
 or so after its release. I had loved Melee, and while the original Smash Bros was really old, I 
 liked that one too, though not quite as much as Melee.
  
  Then, we come to Brawl, which was fun at first due to unlocking all the new characteres, with Lucas 
 being the only new character I was truely interested in as I played as Ness in the previous two 
 games. I played through the Subspace Emissary and everyone's Classic mode, but I'm already bored 
 silly with the darn game before I got everyone's Final Smash trophies. Problem one with this game: 
 I got bored far too early.
  
  Onto more problems:
  1) Wiimote controls. This game is still better played with the Gamecube controller, its as simple 
 as that. The wiimote+nunchuck combo doesn't like to recognize the difference between normal A attacks 
 and smash A attacks either.
  2) Character balance. As much as I liked this aspect, it had its downsides too, namely that it 
 took less skill to kill anyone as anyone else.
  3) Final Smashes. I wouldn't normally have a problem with this, except even when you turn them 
 off, if you're dying a bunch of times, the game likes to give you a pity smash. I find this annoying 
 because its why I turned off the smash balls.
  4) Point System. If it were the point system from Melee, I wouldn't have a problem, but the problem 
 here is that if you suicide, it randomly gives a point to someone else, thus making it possible 
 to win without killing anyone. Starfox Assault had this same problem, but I also found its multiplayer 
 more fun. I could see this being good for a 2 player match, but its just unfair beyond that.
  5) Other than multiplayer, I just see little reason to keep this game around.
  6) The Subspace 
 Emissary. I played it once to see all the cutscenes and unlock everything. Unlike melee's adventure 
 mode, I wouldn't play this again though.
  7) Cutting characters. I notice Brawl has a "4 characters per universe" thing going on. While I 
 could see cutting Pichu, why were Dr. Mario and Mewtwo cut? Granted, Roy and Young Link were clones 
 to begin with, but Lucario hardly plays close enough to Mewtwo to cut him, and since they changed 
 Mario, Dr. Mario should probably have been put back.
  
  Plus:
  1) Balance. It makes it more fun to play as characters who were previously very weak, like Ness, 
 whom I like to play as anyway, and makes stronger characters like Shiek or Jigglypuff more fair 
 to play against.
  2) Level designs. Good for the most part, Few complaints.
  3) Music. Unlike in Melee, you can choose what songs appear how often on the stages. Its a nice 
 touch and you can unlock more CDs along the way and turn off the really bad ones. This was a definite 
 plus for me and kept me playing longer than I normally would have.
  
  All-in-all, the pluses don't outweigh the negatives. Fun for a brawl get together with freinds, 
 but useless on its own and not nearly as much fun as Melee or original Smash Bros. If you want 
 it for single player, Namco Bandai's Tales games have a similar control style that's more fun to 
 play alone or with others.
  Overall, a weekend rental for single player, parties only otherwise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cu_sidhe
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 4, 2008 10:59 pm PT
Review:  When SSBM came out, I was incredibly excited. I bought the game, played it, and was given just 
 what I was expected. When Brawl came out, I wasn't quite as excited, and I was given much, much 
 less than I expected.
  The core gameplay is the same. Everyone SHOULD know what to expect here, so I'll skip this part.
 
  
  On to the critiques. This is why, in my OPINION, this game deserves a flat two rating.
  
  The fighting is ungodly simplistic, but sometimes, your character still refuses to do what 
 you tell them. It's a button masher; not a fighting game that requires ANY real commitment to be 
 able to play it. The different ways of controlling it all have their flaws. The GC controller seems 
 to lag, the Wiimote seems to lack some functions, and the Wiimote with nunchuck still seems like 
 a clunky way of handling it. 
  
  There are tons of characters to play, but most of them share the exact same moves. I know that 
 Fox, Falco, and Wolf are all from the same series; but there should be a little diversity among 
 their play style. Almost all characters play the same; the only difference is that some are FAR 
 too fast, and some are incredibly slow. None of the attacks seem to do a decent amount of damage, 
 even for hard hitters like DK or Dedede. That being said, it seems way, way too easy to get ring 
 outs in this game. That's about it. If you actually like fighting games, this alone ought to bother 
 you.
  
  The graphics are par for the wii. In other words... Bad. They have nice, bright, seizure inducing 
 colors, though!
  
  The final smashes are barely worth paying attention to. None of them do enough damage, they're 
 fun to watch once, but mostly annoying. Having the final smashes triggered by a power up you need 
 to smash is kind of lame; I thought it would have been better if you filled a meter by attacking 
 your opponents, or something.
  
  And now... Subspace emissary. It's nice to have a longer adventure mode with cutscenes and everything, 
 but I spent more time cursing insipidly poor platformer design, or annoying sidescrolling levels 
 than anything. Just when you think you're done, you have to do another crappy level, culminating 
 in a crappy montage of these levels, along with one of the worst boss fights ever conceived. 
 
  
  I really, really tried to like this game. Some parts are fun, but they're few and far between for 
 ANYONE who has actually played the old Smash Bros (Which were far better games, I still play SSBM 
 more often than SSBB) , or anyone who has played any of the multitudinous better fighting games 
 out there.
  
  It's a good game. If you have never played another fighting game, that is. Or any other videogame, 
 for that matter.
  
  I'm selling my copy back. I'll stick to the better, earlier version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellerwolf
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 4, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  hello im kellerwolf im gonna talk about few things that i like about super samsh bros brawl ok 
 i like the fight becouse you could be any one you want to be and thats good don't you think i want 
 it it is my secound best game for the wii you could use specil ability's, s like super attecks the 
 machene guy when he gets the super abelity and he use it a big blast come that hits everyone. who 
 ever has the most number they die then have to start all over again then you start at 0. super smash 
 bros bral is my do you know why super smash bros bwral is my 2 best wii game? here is why because 
 all the charecters and atteck and the other things like the specil ability's, ultimate ability's, 
 and other! my favorite characters are mario and luige and pekachi and and wario and zelda!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 those are my farvorite characters in super smash bros bwral the one i hate is browser my very very 
 very very very very very best character in super smash bros bwral is do you  
  
  
 those are my favorite characters in SUPER SMASH BROS BWRAL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amirbrandon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. was the biggest thing that kept Nintendo competitive in the last generation. 
 In other words, it was Nintendo's Halo. The first Smash Bros. seemingly came out of nowhere with 
 its release in 1999 and quickly became a fan favorite. Enough of one, at least, to warrant pushing 
 the sequel's production hard enough to not only double the playable roster and massively revamp 
 the visuals, but to also be a near-launch title for the GameCube merely two years later. It's been 
 seven years since then, and the third installment has finally shown its face. 
  
  Before I say anything else, I will say this: The game is fantastic and it deserves its popularity. 
 Just like its predecessors, multiplayer in Super Smash Bros. Brawl is frantic, fast paced, and 
 accessible at all different skill levels, so long as you're playing with others of similar skill. 
 That much hasn't changed. So what has changed? What makes Brawl a better game than Melee? Or for 
 that matter, what makes it worse? Is the game a step forward, backward, or sideways? 
  
  The easiest way to answer this question is to look at both the quantity and quality of playable 
 characters in Brawl. No one (that I've encountered) has called for any major changes in the general 
 gameplay of the series - what most seem to want is a higher number of quality fighters to chose 
 from. In order to expand the playable roster from Super Smash Bros. by such a dramatic number in 
 such a short amount of development time, many of the characters in Melee were "clones," meaning 
 that two or more characters would play very similarly  most would say too similarly. Many characters 
 shared nearly identical move sets, giving you little reason to chose one from the other. Brawl 
 adds a significant amount of newfighters to the list, while simultaneously minimizing the problem 
 of clones. Some clones - like Pichu, Roy, and Dr. Mario  were thrown out of the game entirely 
 and replaced with brawlers more distinct in nature from other fighters. Captain Olimar, Pokmon 
 Trainer, Sonic and others all play like no other characters. Even additions such as Wolf and Ike 
 who seem like they would play like existing characters have different enough move sets for them 
 to not feel like clones. Other fighters who were previously clones remain, but the differences 
 between those characters have been widened as well. Young Link (now Toon Link) and Link now feel 
 much different than they did in Melee, for example. Toon Link feels lighter than Young Link did 
 and seems to move faster. Link, on the other hand, seems to be a bit more powerful than he used 
 to be, but also moves more slowly. Slight variations like these from Melee are all over the place 
 in Brawl, much in the same way as changes like these were made from the original Smash Bros. to 
 Melee.
  
  In the original Smash Bros on the 64, things were fairly primitive. Most of the game focused on 
 the hard hitting smashes themselves. Land a few good, hard hits, and it's over for your opponent. 
 When Melee came out it improved on that with the expanded move sets and more emphasis on racking 
 up damage before the harder hitting moves really spelled inevitable destruction for the one being 
 hit. Maneuvering your character also became more important - dodging, catching thrown items, deflecting 
 attacks and things of this sort became necessities to master. Brawl takes it a step further by 
 adding even more "pokes" of this sort, and making some hard hitting moves less effective without 
 a lot of accumulated damage. That's not to say that the hard hits and hard hitters don't exist 
 anymore, because of course they do, but Brawl certainly makes you earn your kills more than ever 
 before. In this way Brawl is the most balanced game in the series. 
  
  The difference in the feel of the play may be somewhat disheartening at first, perhaps even disappointing 
 to those expecting to pick up Brawl and be just as good as they were in Melee right away. Luckily 
 most of the learning seems to come quickly for most, much like it did when switching from the N64 
 version of Smash to Melee. A few hours of solid play and the feel of the game grows on you and 
 eventually becomes second nature again. 
  
  Massive attempts have been made to revamp the single player experience in Brawl as compared to 
 Melee. Subspace Emissary, a fairly lengthy story type mode, has been added, and the modes from 
 Melee return as well. The results of the revamp are somewhat mixed. While there is more to do playing 
 single player in Brawl as opposed to the older two games, and while what there is to do is much 
 better than the predecessors, Smash Bros. simply doesn't hold its charm in the single player arena. 
 Don't kid yourself if you think you're going to have as much fun playing single player as you do 
 multiplayer. You won't. That is unless you're crazy. Personally, the most entertaining part of 
 single player remains the Event Matches, and even then I seem to care much less about them this 
 time around as compared to Melee. The meat of this game is its multiplayer. It always has been, 
 and nothing changes here. I really can't even recommend this game to anyone who doesn't have someone 
 else to play with. A great addition to the single player is the ability to create custom levels, 
 but of course this addition benefits the multiplayer far more than the single player. 
  
  Which brings us to our next topic of discussion: online play. The good news is... Brawl has it! 
 And that's about when the good news ends. Nintendo continues their tyranny of separate friend codes 
 for each game, making adding friends and playing with them far more of a hassle than it should 
 be. Additionally, online "play anyone" matches have so far been pretty horrible with lag, constant 
 disconnects and trouble finding opponents. Perhaps this will improve over time, perhaps not. We 
 can only hope that it does. Friend matches fare somewhat better but are still far from perfect 
 in terms of lag. Frankly it's downright pathetic how far behind Nintendo is with online play when 
 compared to every other major console. Brawl could have been the Wii's flagship online title, but 
 instead the experience has so far fallen somewhat below the status of "adequate." On the brighter 
 side of online Brawl, watching and betting coins (earned throughout the game to be used to unlock 
 additional trophies and the like) on previously recorded internet battles is surprisingly entertaining. 
 I imagine many drunk nerds have already created drinking games based on the mode. Additionally, 
 the feature to have custom user made levels automatically downloaded to your system every day is 
 a great idea, and makes for new multiplayer experiences every day, if you so like. They may even 
 inspire you with ideas of your next custom level. 
  
  If you like playing with items, there are tons to choose from in Brawl, including the much discussed 
 Smash Ball. For those not in the know the Smash Ball is an item that appears randomly and floats 
 around the level waiting to be beat open by players. The first one to beat the item open then gains 
 the ability to unleash a ridiculously powered attack, often killing one or more of the other players 
 in one move, keeping true to its namesake of "Final Smash." Final Smashes are fun diversions, but 
 quickly grow old and are very imbalanced. Some moves are fairly easy to avoid and don't punish 
 nearly as harshly as others do. Others are literally unavoidable and kill you no matter what. In 
 addition to Smash Balls (heh) , assist trophies have also been added into the mix. Assist Trophies 
 are much like Pokeballs, in that you pick up the item and then a secondary character comes to the 
 playing field to help you out. With assist trophies, though, your helper could be one of many Nintendo 
 characters, instead of just a Pokemon. Additions like these were obvious attempts at making items 
 more important to the game as a whole than they were in the previous two games. And they do affect 
 the game more, that is if you keep those items on. I've found them to generally be pretty annoying 
 and most people seem to prefer just keeping them off.
  
  Much is to be said about the control in Brawl. As you likely already know, you have the ability 
 to play brawl in many different ways: with a Wii remote, a Wii remote+nunchuck, the Classic Controller, 
 or the traditional GameCube controller. I assume most people will be sticking with the latter, 
 simply because it is what everyone is used to. The remote by itself is awkward, the remote with 
 the nunchuck is surprisingly okay, and the Classic Controller would be fine if it was a more comfortable 
 controller use in general. Whatever you like, you have your choice. A nice feature that utilizes 
 the memory in the Wii remote is the ability to load your user name onto your remote and take it 
 with you. That means no matter where you brawl your stats can be updated, if you care enough to 
 load your profile back and forth from your controller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HiddenOakTree
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  HATING ON IT:
  
  SUBSPACE YOU FAIL ME...
  I know Nintendo doesn't really use voices but it feels so empty in this without them even awkward..
 
  There isn't anything wrong with this game besides the one factor I noticed but expected, The Subspace 
 Emissary Story mode. Smash brought on the very creative story mode with short video clips and solo 
 or co-op play. But it isn't FUN...
  Yet as I expected the enemies are poorly thought out, even corny. Very different from the multilayer, 
 it can be very frustrating because the enemies just get amazing power as difficulty increases and 
 can one hit you on the hardest difficulty. Just doesn't feel right.. 
  
  LOVING ON IT:
  
  SOLELY THE MULTILAYER MADE THE GAME AS ALWAYS, but MORE!
  
  The game gets a 9.5 because 
 it kept the heart of the game which is being A AMAZING MULTI PLAYER GAME!
  
  The Online isn't so bad after all and is really just a GREAT BONUS to vising friends.
  
  I 
 still feel Melee was better but it might be because of the adjustment I haven't quite accepted. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brawler100
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Hello and welcome to my review. When you first open the case up, you might think that all you do 
 is fight, you're one forth right. If you think that getting the characters are hard, think again. 
 The way to get Jigglypuff is different from Melee and the original. There is also so much unlockables 
 like around 550 trophies and nearly 700 stickers to get. The new challenge board will help you 
 sharpen your skills while unlocking trophies. The adventure mode is no longer be fast, it is actually 
 32 levels long until you finish it. But it does get boring after you cannot unlock anything for 
 a long time. But have no fear, Wi-Fi is here!! If you and your friends have each others friend 
 codes, you can play together. If you got no friends (unlucky you) you can play with anyone, but 
 be warned, it IS LAGGY. The characters are well rounded and better then Melee. If there was anycharacter 
 I would want out I would say that King De De De because he is too slow and, even he is powerfull 
 like Ike, he needs better speed and a better voice. I give this game an 9.5 out of 10 stars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KirbyStar3
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 3, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  This is cool game, cool graphics, cool game play. There are Nintendo characters and 2 Third-Party 
 characters. Unlock stages, characters, music, and more! Are you ready to fight? Ready and FIGHT! Buy now 
 at Target, Game Stop and more! Fight me! And don't forget GO BRAWL! Super Smash Bros Brawl Rated Teen. Also 
 fight on Super Smash Bros Brawl on Nintendo Wii. If you don't have a Wii, don't buy it. If you have 
 a Wii, buy it!!!! IT JUST CRAZY! DUH? I DON'T FEEL IT! Super Smash Bros Brawl! Also Adventure Mode include 
 Cinemanic Clips. SCORE:10/10!
  dkfhsdklhfskldhskehsodhg
  CODE ERROR.
  Sorry! I broke a card recorder? SORRY! I'm good enough we all planned the Smash Bros 4. This is terrible. The 
 characters don't make a roster:
  Megaman
  Simon
  Geno
  King K Rool
  HOLY ****
  Krystal
  Claus
  Sora
  Otis
  Peck
  DOH!
  Donald
  Scooby Doo
  MAMA LUIGI?
  Homer 
 Simpson
  Bart Simpson 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burnttech
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Brawl was pretty good compared to most smash bros games. I found this game almost have too much 
 to unlock. I really enjoyed the amount of characters you could unlock. This game didn't really 
 have too much to gain by being on the wii. The extra modes were pretty fun for how much time had 
 to be spend on beating it. It was nice to add a co-op mode to single player. co-op didn't really 
 feel like a game more of a chore is what I felt. They put good effort into this game, compared 
 to alot of other wii games that came out around then. WiFi Connection play isn't good at all from 
 my few times playing on it. It seemed to have a lag when fighting. The best part is they let you 
 use a GameCube controller. I couldn't even have thought about playing with a wii remote. Also brought 
 back home run derby which I thought was a good touch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mg66
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Brawl is a very good game. Who wouldn't want to play as thier favorite nintendo charecter and then 
 beat the living out of your oppenent? It's an average game when you play alone. It's a perfect 
 game when playing with friends.
  
  Classic is one of my favorite modes. You go through 12 stages and at the end you fight the master 
 hand. You can choose from easy to intense. easy is easy and intense is super duper hard. This is 
 one of brawl's best features.
  
  Subspace Emissary is okay. I really felt that it was the worst part of the game. You'll have to 
 force yourself through it if you want to unlock everything in the game. It has average gameplay 
 but beautiful cutscenes. The graphics are excellent.
  
  Wifi is okay. 
  
  
  So overall Brawl is one of the best games on the Wii. I put it in the same catagory as super mario 
 galaxy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pwnerofface
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  SSBB is probably my favorite wii game to date its a massive game with a ton of unlockables that 
 will just keep you playing first off it has an actually story mode that lasts about ten hours fans 
 of the series such as myself were delighted to hear this secondly theve addes roughly 15 characters 
 and the only removed characters that were copies of others so dont worry your favorite melee character 
 is still gonna be there this game is probably the second best looking wii game out there next to 
 galaxy and the music is stunning they have tracks from all time periods and from every characters 
 games its great to just go into sound test and listen to music in addition to the story mode theyre 
 is event mode and stadium mode and classic and allstar in addition stadium mode has teh added feature 
 of boss battle which collaberates all the bosses you fight in the story mode into one ten fight 
 event now onto multiplayer its pretty much the same as melee with a few deeper options which let 
 me tell you if you dont already know is a very good thing with the multiplayer you will probably 
 be playing this game for over 200 hours and you wont get sick of it a game like this with a disgusting 
 amount of replay value and just fun things to do you are definetly gonna wanna get your hands on 
 a cpy of this game if you already havnt i might even go as far to say that this game is worth buying 
 a wii for 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NovaScizor75
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  I could go on and on about how brilliant this game is, but I'll try to shorten my review. I don't 
 care what anyone says, SSBB is a landmark in fighting games. The graphics aren't as good as, say, 
 Mario Galaxy, but they're still pretty detailed. Though some people say they look like slightly 
 tweaked Gamecube graphics, I have to disagree. The soundtrack is HUGE, literally hundreds of classic 
 game songs in all, most of which have been revamped for this game. The sound effects here are also 
 pretty rad. The gameplay, however, is what REALLY makes this game worth playing (besides the boatload 
 of modes and extras) . A simple fighting system that is basic enough for beginners, but technical 
 enough for pros. Though you can use four different controller types (Wii-mote, Nunchuck, Classic 
 controller, and Gamecube controller) I recommend using a Gamecube controller. And the awesome thing 
 about this is you can customize the controls (makes up tilt moves a lot easier to pull off) . Though 
 there is an adventure mode, it can get kinda boring in a short amount of time, but it is the easiest 
 way to unlock all the characters in a about 8 hours. Of course the events mode and stadium make 
 a return from Melee, but now with co-op! Now you can battle people from all over the world with 
 the miracle that is the Nintendo Wi-fi Connection. Though it is lag-free most of the time, you'll 
 probably run into a few matches that are just so slow. Items aplenty in this game. The most notable 
 additions are the famous smash ball and the pokeball-esque assist trophies. And if the things mentioned 
 above weren't enough, now there are 700 stickers and 500+ trophies to collect. Damn! That'll definitely 
 keep you busy. There are 35 different characters from just about every Nintendo franchise (and 
 Solid Snake & Sonic) , creating a balanced and diverse roster. There are also 41 crazy stages to 
 battle on. In conclusion, with it's huge amount of game modes, customization options, extras, stages, 
 and fighters, Super Smash Bros. Brawl is a game that deserves the title of perfect and is a must 
 have Wii game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bowlord
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  Well, where can i start with? well let's rate general aspects.
  
  We all know that one of the best series of multiplayer games for Nintendo are the Smash bros ones. 
 So this one, will no disappoint you
  
  @.- The multiplayer aspect is one of it's primary motive for play it. Because it's very addictive 
 and very funny, and more funnier if you play it with pals. The new service for online play, it's 
 OK but it can be better than that.
  
  @.- The story mode, well ist's very cool and very epic, because the videos, the development of 
 the story, and the levels are very well do it. The battle against bosses and the recollection of 
 trophies and stickers boost the replay value of the game. 
  
  @.- All the inclusions in the game, like characters, challenges, music, levels, other modes, are 
 fine. so there's no problem with it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarqKiller
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2008 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Now, if your reading this review, you most likely are a gamer and love video games, and you probably 
 know what almost everyone expected when they picked up Super Smash Brothers: Brawl on March 9th, 
 2008, either on midnight release or while camping at Wal-Mart untill eight in the morning, their 
 thoughts were "This game will be freakin off the wall awesome" Were they right, you bet our ass.
 
  
  Controls: 7.5/10
  
  Usually you can't get higher than a 7 on controls, but the controls were quite good, and provides 
 good control schemes for any and every player, and you can even customize the controls to your 
 needs, very nice.
  
  Graphics: 8.5/10
  
  The graphics are very good ESPECIALLY for a Nintendo Wii game, though Smash Bros always did push 
 the system to the limit, It still was quite good.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  The Soundtrack is freaking great, it has both originals and remakes of classic songs like Mario, 
 Zelda, Kirby, Ice Climbers and StarFox (A personal favourite of mine) along with tunes that werent 
 even known to North Americans. The sounds are also great, with Classic, High Quality and even surprising 
 sounds (Like the licensed Lightsaber swing sound from George  
 Lucas' Star Wars)
  
  Roster (Fighters only) : 9.5/10
  
  (Note: I only use this for Fighters or other games with rosters) The roster is amazing, it has 
 every character for everyone, it has slow-but-strong, it has fast-but-weak, it has inbetween, it 
 has mixed bags, it has everything, from Jigglypuff to Freaking Squirtle, Ivysaur and Charizard 
 to Lucario, From Mario to Luigi to Bowser to the  
 (I've really gotta stop doing the dash thing) Yoshi, from the cocky Fox to the badass Wolf, from 
 Marth to Ike, From Link To Zelda to Ganondorf, and they even got freaking Snake in there, who is 
 really awesome if you know how to use him. Its just an amazing Roster.
  
  Gameplay. 9.5/10
  
  Okay people, the very core mechanic of any game, you screw this up and 
 the game is horrible, but guess what? They didn't dissapoint, the Gameplay is amazing, the Item 
 Selecton is widel spread, the Final Smashes are absolutely beautiful (Though CERTAIN people's are 
 instenlsy cheap, like little "Im too cheap!" The Hedgehog.) The fighting mechanics make it still 
 challenging while not impossible (And it doesnt require you to press a billion buttons to do a 
 combo or press a bunch of buttons while facing your opponent at a certain angle and pressing a 
 combo of buttons at intense speeds to do a fatality) The physics are great, the action is fast 
 paced, but sill playable for the slow-goers. Its just action packed and thrilling to no extent.
 
  
  Multiplayer: 5.5/10
  
  Now heres where the game takes a shot to the foot, I was expecting great online, but sadly, Connection 
 errors, No microphone and lag are major issues that cripple the online, but the regular offline 
 multiplayer is great and as solid as ever.
  
  Overall: 9.0/10
  
  This is the best fighter out there in my opinion, its simple but has combos that just spark the 
 "Holy ****" reaction. it has great graphics, amazing sound, and aside from he crappy online play, 
 its an amazing game and I severely recommend getting it if you have a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonicpower451
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 31, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl is a 3rd instalment to the Smash bros series. After getting delayed 2 times, 
 we FINALLY get what we needed from Nintendo! I will start off with the good things about the game 
 first. You see, Super Smash Bros Brawl has an even larger character roster than before. 35 characters! 
 There are old characters from first and second Smash bros game. And there are new characters! The 
 gameplay also hasn't changed. It was kept the same, which is a good thing! It's also an easier 
 fighting game than the other ones I've played (street fighter, tekken) . Oh and here is something 
 new to the gameplay. Final smashes! To activate a final smash, you will need to break an item called 
 "Smash ball." Once you brake it, you will unleash a very very powerful attack that will help you 
 win a battle! another new item is the assist trophies. It relates to the pokeball but instead of 
 pokemon, there is a little character from a different videogame franchise to help you. There are 
 also different control schemes you could try for yourself! Wii remote held sideways, Wii remote 
 and Nunchuck, Gamecube controller, and Classic controller. If you like the gameplay, you will like 
 the features they added! They even brought back the adventure mode a. k. a Subspace Emissary! If 
 you like side scrolling adventures, then you should try out Subspace emissary! There is also a 
 stage builder. Stage builder mode can let you make your own stage! By completing certain tasks, 
 you can unlock new items to use for building a stage! If you were expecting me to talk about graphics, 
 then forget it! This is a Wii game! graphics don't matter anyway! So there are lots of features 
 you could try. Including NINTENDO WIFI CONNECTION! OMG! Yep! Battle your friends from around the 
 world!
  
  Now to the bad things. OMG! Well, during wifi, it lags sometimes and the attacks are always delayed. 
 Like, if you press a button to attack, your attack will take effect in 1 second after you press 
 the button. Some of the items and assist trophies are useless! The Wii remote held sideways is 
 difficult to use sometimes.
  
  
  Well that ends my review for Super Smash Bros Brawl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danwarecritic
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  OMG!!!!! This game is one of the best games in all of Nintendo's history! It truly does have it 
 all. It's the fanservice fighter to play. I can't think of much to blame this game (or the series) 
 for. In fact think of anything to blame it for. just to thank it for. The series rose the fanservice 
 genre to prominence. It's Nintendo's top-rated IP. It has awesome graphics, mystifying sound, and 
 legendary gameplay. Since the series has started. Other fighters like it were made to try to compete 
 with it. There's the best kind of fanservice roster ever. There's Mario, Link, Pikachu, Kirby, 
 Yoshi, Pit, Samus, Wario, Captain Falcon, Donkey Kong, Fox McCloud, Zelda, Peach, Bowser, Ganondorf, 
 the Ice Climbers, Meta Knight, you name it. There's a lot of fun to be had here. There's just something 
 about trying to knock enemies off the screen with a variety of attacks and items (including support 
 characters!!!) . Not to mention a soundtrack and selection of stages that's just as all-star as 
 the roster. You can even unlock Konami's Solid Snake and Sega's Sonic! How's that for fanservice!? 
 Support characters include a variety of Pokemon, Ray Mk. III from Custom Robo, Gray Fox from Metal 
 Gear, Sonic's dark double Shadow, Luigi's EVIL double Waluigi, Lyn from Fire Emblem, Dr. Wright 
 from SimCity, and more. There's even a full-on story mode with a plot that feels like an excuse 
 to team classic Nintendo characters up! This, all along with Super Mario Galaxy, Zelda: Ocarina 
 of Time, and the Pokemon series, is among the best of the best from Nintendo!!! You have got to 
 play this!!! HERE AND NOW!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  
  Concept 10: The god of fanservice returns better than ever.
  
  Graphics 10: Right up there 
 with Super Mario Galaxy's visuals.
  
  Sound 10: All-Star. All-Star. ALL-STAR!!!!!!!
  
  Playability 10: AWESOME!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  Entertainment 10: You know a game rocks when it's reviewer 
 has fun writing a positive review for it.
  
  Replay Value 10: When you buy it............ DON'T EVER STOP PLAYING IT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: God_of_duty117
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Super smash bros. brawl is fun, simple and addictive. The goal in SSBB is to knock the oppenent 
 off the stage by increasing the their percentage (the game's damage counter) and the higher it 
 gets the easier it is to send them off the stage. There are a 30+ characters ranging from all corners 
 of the nintendo universe from mario to samus, and it even has solidsnake and sonic!! The battle 
 system is pretty simple compared to other fighting games. The combos never really reach any higher 
 than two buttons so it lessens the gap between pros and noobs. It also has a unique item system 
 that, just like it's characters, range from a bunch of other nintendo games, which makes battles 
 even more crazy, with each character having their own final smash which is a very powerful attack 
 that is obtained threw grabbing the smash ball which will randomly appear at any time, so when 
 it appears everybody tries to get it first. Up to four people can play at a time either A. I. or 
 human controlled making people who don't have any friends or online happy and busy. It has a solid 
 online system which you can fight with friends or anonymously with random people and even bet on 
 matches with the games coin currency. The game is also long as well for it has many things to get 
 such as the game's 100+ achievments, 500+trophies and stickers, and 250+ songs, and all of it's 
 modes such as multi-man brawl, classic, all-star, target smash, home-run contest, boss battle, 
 tournament, brawl, special brawl, and the longest of them all the subspace emissary which is it's 
 story mode but it is kind bland but it's the only complaint really, so doing everything can easily 
 run past 200+ hours!!! So if you own a Wii, and with how few standout titles there are for it, 
 there is no real reason not to get it whether your young or old, casual or hardcore, it is simply 
 a must get title for the Wii! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knightfire35
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 30, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros: Brawl is the third game in the Super Smash Bros series. The first two games were 
 amazing, and sold tons of copies. It was known as one of the best games ever. Now the third one 
 is out, and it's on the Nintendo Wii. There has been so much anticipation for this game to finally 
 reach North American shelves. First off, the game has three different control modes. You can use 
 just the Wii Mote or the Wii mote and the nun chuck. Or if you played Super Smash Bros Melee, you 
 can plug in your game cube controller and use that for your fighting. That way everyone can find 
 a way to play. This way even rookies at the game series can choose a control scheme they are familiar 
 with and go. Another thing that was really nice, is the selection of characters. There are plenty 
 of new ones, as well as returning veterans. That way there is so many possibilities to use in play, 
 it will keep you entertained for a long time. There are many modes to play. There is the story 
 mode, which is pretty much a 2d side scrolling adventure, that can be played single or with a friend 
 co-op. There are events, which out you in a certain scenario, and you have to complete the event 
 under the terms provided. There is also Brawl mode, where you can compete against you friends or 
 the computer. In this mode you can alter the rules and make you own kinda of Brawl. There is a 
 collection room, where you can view stickers, trophies etc. You can make you own levels, which 
 is not as fun as it sounds. You are limited to very few block. It would have been nice to have 
 downloadable extra blocks. The game is pretty much perfect. It will satisfy veterans of the series, 
 as well as give Wii owners a great fighting game to play with friends. No matter what the case, 
 Super Smash Bros Brawl is an excellent choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dizzyman572
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  In Super Smash Bros. Brawl you can play as many characters such as Mario, Princess Peach, Wario, 
 Bowser, and the newest character for the franchise, Snake, Sonic and many more. 
  
  You can brawl against your friends to not only get the right to say "I'm better then you!" but 
 it's also the perfect way to release your anger against them, if they perhaps stole your girlfriend 
 or stole a money from your wallet. 
  
  There are three different modes to play in brawl as well, there's your average fight to the death 
 mode, Survival where you only have one or more lives, and finally grab the coins. 
  You can also brawl online, so you can pwn all the noobs in Japan. They'd be all like "Ah, Tai!"
 
  
  There's also these floating balls that are called a 'Final Smash' where it powers up the character 
 that you're using, and leaves your opponent screaming "Mommy!" 
  
  You can also make your own maps, but can't share them online, which is a bummer. But hey, now you 
 can pwn all your friends on the very map you've created in your own living room. 
  
  There's even the option to play by yourself in single player mode, just in case you don't have 
 any friends, like me! 
  
  Anyway, in single player mode, you can do tons of things in it, but I'll only mention two. 
  
 
  You can play Classic mode, which has been in every Super Smash game ever made. In it you must endure 
 12 stages of battle; you might even find that you're fighting with one or more allies.
  
  You can also play in story mode known as 'The Subspace Emissary' in it you'll play as a verity 
 of character going their own different story threads. You might find yourself playing as DK as 
 he tries to get his stolen bananas back from Koopas or maybe Zero Suit Samus while she's trying 
 to get her stolen suit of armor back from the robots, while fighting along side with pickachu. 
 
  
  There are so many things to unlock in Super Smash Bros. Brawl, it'll have you playing for months, 
 maybe years (Heck, I'm still playing it, I've had it since the release!) . 
  
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is for anyone who wants or owns a Wii System. The game will have your heart 
 pumping in the intro, and blow you away in game.
  
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl, is a true Masterpiece and deserves 5 thumbs out of 5
  
  P. S. I would've 
 used stars, but they were already taken. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: slidypitt
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  Short description: Super Smash Bros. Brawl is a fighthing game. Nintendo's characters fight each 
 others to be the best brawler. This game is the third this great sequel.
  
  Gameplay: This is the best point of the game. Now, with the Wii, we can choose 4 ways to play to 
 it; Wii mote+Nunchunk, Wii mote, Gamecube controller and the virtual console controller.
  
  The characters have some new moves like the Final Smash that allow the characters to use a super 
 powerful move to take advantage on the fight. They're also new battle items, new pokmons and now, 
 assitance character. The assitance characters are here to help you to take advantage on the fight. 
 You can call them by using an assistance trophy. There also stickers. Likes trophy, you collect 
 them.
  
  In Brawl, there's new game mode like Subspace emissary, a story mode, and a boss battles mode. 
 You can also try the masterpiece games of Nintendo like Mario Bros.1 and The legend of Zelda 1. 
 There's also an online mode that I didin't try yet. There's a challenge mode. You can win trophy 
 and others prizes by completing somes conditions.
  
  Story: This version of SSB gives now a story mode that you can't find in the others one. This mode 
 is the Subspace Emissary. The story introduce the characters while you go further in. The story 
 is quite interesting and reminds the world of Nintendo. The fact that the characters say no word 
 put a comedy touch to the game. You can play this mode in Coop with a friend. Here, the stickers 
 are really useful. They are here to boost character capacibility and powers.
  
  Graphics: Compared to the others of the sequel, Brawl acquire graphics revolution. The characters 
 looks better and more real. The visuals effects are totally amazing.
  
  Lifetime: Now, I spent nearly 50 hour, but Ithink this game can pass nearly 100hours of playing. 
 This game is really attractive and immersive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeldafan14
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are just absolutely amazing!! The wifi can make you play for hours of fun even if 
 you are offline you still have hours of fun! The story mode of it has great cinematic cut scenes. 
 You could play with lots of players at rotation at group mode. The stages at the other hand are 
 the best! There are 41 (or 42 not sure I forgot) stages in all! At the game you could replay your 
 battles or take photoes. You could also make your own stage. You could also play demoes of old 
 games at masterpieces. The characters are awsome! Your favorite characters of nintendo or outside 
 of the nintendo world might be on brawl. I know everyone had a blast on this game. There are also 
 four ways you can play brawl. You could use the wii remote and nunchuck, wii remote, classical 
 controller and gamecube controller. I use the wii remote and nunchuck. You don't have to though 
 you could use one of the four choices. The items are the best especially the smash ball! This is 
 my first SSB game and I'm already a fan of SSB because of this game! I hope first timers like me 
 will like this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stonetowerghost
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 29, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great multiplayer fun; loads of unlockables; Overwhelming character roster....
  
  The Bad: Visuals are barely upgraded from Melee; The Subspace Emissary sucks; Quite a few characters 
 are shameless palette swaps...
  
  We are in a new gaming generation, and as Nintendo has done since the N64 era, a new Smash Brothers 
 game has arrived with amazing results. It takes everything about the old games to new heights, 
 and given these drastic improvements on the same old engine, you will probably never play the old 
 versions again. 
  
  It's hard to believe that one of the greatest games in Nintendo history actually began life as 
 an ill-fated N64 fighting game. It was going to be just another run of the mill game when some 
 freaking genius suggested consolidating a multitude of Nintendo characters into a single fighting 
 package. I hope he's getting paid well right now. 
  
  Smash Brothers Brawl continues the tried and true formula, but adds A LOT more to the mix. Everything 
 you loved about the original games is back in a far greater form. The simplistic yet competitive 
 combat remains largely unchanged, and a huge roster of characters makes things all the sweeter. 
 
  
  You can fight against friends with up to four players, play a single player mode to obtain TONS 
 of unlockables, or participate in Trophy collecting, sandbag hitting, multi-man brawls, and much, 
 MUCH more. Every action you take will seem to flood into the game's endless amount of content and 
 give you an unlockable. There's THAT much to do. 
  
  Unfortunately, the easiest way to do these things is through the Subspace Emissary; a lengthy and 
 extremely banal adventure mode that pits your fighters against a common foe. 
  
  The SSE largely contains platforming elements that could have been SPECTACULAR if they had been 
 a bit more fleshed out. Instead you get repetitive platforming and dull fighting against the same 
 uninspired monsters over and over again. You'll honestly feel as if you're playing through this 
 mode to see the gorgeous cutscenes. 
  
  While the SSE's cutscenes look great, the rest of the game looks pathetically last-gen. Aside from 
 the stylistic make over and a few special effects, you're going to feel like you're playing the 
 gamecube version. Giving us the option to use a deflicker to toggle which graphical component we 
 want to use (sharp or smooth) is a nice option, but why not start up some HD Wii Consoles so Smash 
 Brothers can just look consistently awesome? 
  
  Speaking of disappointments, the Online play leaves a lot to be desired. Fighting with friends 
 is great once the friend code hassel is over, but you're going to find that the option to play 
 with random people is just a headache. Not only is the game limited to a 2 minute brawl, but the 
 amount of lag in matches w/ random people is just unacceptable. Don't play random online matches 
 if you like fun. 
  
  Perhaps the greatest of Brawl's disappointments is in the Character Roster. Fans of Melee complained 
 of a few characters being 'clones' (New characters that really play almost identically to old characters, 
 such as Ganon is to Captain Falcon) and going to be pissed, because the multitude of new characters 
 only equals more clones. You'll find that a lot of characters, particularly the Star Fox set, are 
 just shameless rip offs of each other with minor differences. Where's the originality, Nintendo?
 
  
  Of course, originalty comes in the form of the new Smash Ball system.
  
  While not groundbreaking, the Smash Balls are a great new addition to SSB. When a Smash Ball appears 
 the players are compelled to stop what they're doing to break it open, which leads to absolute 
 chaos. When a character breaks open the Smash Ball, they can press a button to do a special and 
 very powerful attack that attributes to their character. 
  
  Unfortunately, the Smash Ball doesn't grant EVERY character a different attack. Quite a few characters 
 have similar Final Smashes (Such as Sonic and Pikachu) , and others (Like the Star Fox set) have 
 EXACTLY identical Final Smashes. 
  
  While Smash balls powerful, they won't usually determine who wins a match. Thank god they can be 
 shut off for purists who don't like items. 
  
  I'm left pondering if Nintendo will do a Microsoft and allow us to download new Characters and 
 Levels through Wii Connect 24. This would be a great idea that would keep us coming back for more, 
 but seeing the game's already huge breadth of content, I still couldn't reasonable complain if 
 they ignored the option. 
  
  Brawl will do nothing to change the minds of those who already dislike the series, but it's a great 
 addition to the franchise. If you buy this game, you are very wise - you will have in your hands 
 something that will keep you entertained for years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisPperson
Rating: 9
Date: May 29, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl has an amazingly balanced and huge roster. The singleplayer brawls are great, 
 a good roster backed up by a great selection of places to battle in. The subspace emissary really 
 wasn't all that great, but it was fun collecting brawlers and battling bosses.
  Brawl comes with great features, like building your own stage, and taking pictures and replays 
 and putting them on your wii or an SD card. Also an easy and fun way to earn trophies is to do 
 the coin shooter. 
  Multiplayer on Brawl is extraordinary. Since there is a wide selection of characters and a good 
 number of places to battle in, multiplayer does really well.
  Like I said, Subspace Emissary is not a great thing on Brawl, but it is fun. Subsace Emissary is 
 also not hard at all, and it does not last for too long. I can't say too much bad about it because 
 it was addicting for as long as it lasted. Single Player brawls can get lagging, and so can classic. 
 The events in the game are great, and can unlock more stages. Overall, Brawl is a must-but for 
 the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjgamefreak
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun and addictive! A true masterpiece! Out of all the smash bros. games, this 
 game is the best, no doubt! Much more Nintendo characters, than any other Smash Brothers game! 
 There are new game modes such as a new adventure mode, All star mode, create a stage mode, trophy 
 hoard, sticker mode, and it includes all the classic modes too! The graphics are amazing the story 
 line in the adventure mode is incredible, and there are so many new characters and challenges! 
 There are allot of new stages plus all melee stages. There is more moves in the character move 
 sets such as final smashes. New weapons and objects are included too. If any body is a die hard 
 Nintendo fan and likes fighting games, then this is the game for you! If you are sick of using 
 the Wii remote, why not use the classic remote or the Game cube controller. All that I described 
 so far isn't even everything included in this great game, you need to buy the game to see every 
 thing in it. After you read my review any body who has a Wii and not this game needs to seriously 
 buy this game!
  
  Overall Rating 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockerking9
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Yes, I was so excited when I finally got it when I preordered it in October. It took a little over 
 2 hours to master the NEW Super Smash Bros. Game. Cheers, to the creators for making a perfect 
 game though it could be a little more challenging at parts in the Subspace Emissary, but the two 
 player ation made up for that. I didn't fully understand the whole story until I read the written 
 version on www. smashbros. com whcih allowed me to enjoy Brawl even more than I did without completly 
 understanding the story. This is the perfect game of the century if you didn't like this game I 
 officially hate you for that. The act of putting in characters from non-Nintendo like Sonic and 
 Solid Snake is a pretty good idea other game designers should follow. I also agree with my man 
 firecookie29's review (which you should read because it is way better than mine) this game is perfect 
 in every aspect of the average gaming universe. If you are going to get a Wii game get Super Smash 
 Bros.: Brawl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin091
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 29, 2008 5:18 am PT
Review:  Hell yeah.
  
  Featuring a myriad of single and multiplayer modes and unlockables that can last you years, Super 
 Smash Bros. Brawl is definitely worth the money- even when it's original (Pirated versions are 
 available at Greenhills for 200; and that's a huge deal) .
  
  What is it?
  Brawl is the third installment of the Super Smash Bros. franchise. The object in the game is not 
 like other fighting games where you normally deplete an energy bar. The object in the game is to 
 rack up some damage and send the opponent flying into the air or falling out the ring. The percentage 
 meter is indicates the number of damage you have inflicted upon the enemy. The higher the percentage, 
 the higher your enemy will fly.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics in the game are awesome! The particle effects when someone falls is probably the best 
 in the Wii, and the character models and animation are equally great. Compared to the GameCube 
 game, the graphics in this one is definitely a step up from that one- a significant one actually- 
 and that's despite the fact that the Wii doesn't have much of an improvement from the GameCube.
 
  
  Gameplay
  The controls in the game is definitely tight and responsive, and most importantly, accessible and 
 simple. You can access different attacks by facing the analog in one certain direction and pressing 
 a face button. So for example, combining A and tilting the analog Up will make a character kick 
 upward, while tilting left and pressing A together will make a character punch downward. Yes, it 
 is simple, but it has a surprising amount of depth.
  
  Tekken/serious fighting game fans may get put off by the fact that there is no more complexity 
 than that and that there is no command list, but what they don't know is that the game has a lot 
 more depth and strategy to it. For example, when falling, one would normally jump. But when the 
 double-jump runs out and you're still a short distance from the ledge, you can actually use one 
 of your attacks to "recover". And when you're in the air, you can use a certain combination to 
 make a "Meteor Smash", among others.
  
  Multiplayer
  The biggest highlight of the franchise has always been the multiplayer. This time around, everything's 
 been amped up because of its customization options. You can disable a certain item or set the handicap 
 or set the time limit or the lives, or how much time the lives will deplete, or how many items 
 you want placed in one match, etc.. Basically, this is one of the most extensive and not to mention, 
 fun multiplayer on the Wii or maybe on any platform.
  
  The Subspace Emissary
  The Subspace Emissary is an adventure mode that combines platforming and brawl matches in the form 
 of boss fights together. It's pretty good and at some point, non-linear, which is good. And the 
 other good thing about it is that it's as long as a separate game. So if you want to unlock all 
 characters, this is the place to go- for about 10-12 hours.
  
  Even though co-op is available, it wasn't given much thought. The only way you can control the 
 camera is to maintain player 2's pace with player 1. So if player 2 is left behind, it's gonna 
 be hard to proceed because the camera is focused only on player 1. So basically, it's a more ideal 
 playing experience solo, despite the fact that the second player can teleport back near the first 
 player by pressing Start or + on the Wiimote.
  
  In between each long level, there is a beautifully pre-rendered cutscenes that are frequently hilarious.
 
  
  Other Single Player modes
  There are various single-player modes that further push the game's value over the hedge.
  
 
  There is classic mode in which you play a character and fight 12 opponents (and play a few mini-games 
 in between) like the "normal, hardcore" fighter, there is events mode in which you can complete 
 various objectives, Stadium which houses more modes namely: Multi-man brawl in which you can fight 
 a few hundred people until you die, all-star mode in which you are fighting against all the characters 
 in the game and can only be played after every character is unlocked, the Home-Run contest which 
 is a batting game that challenges you to bat as far as you can in 10 seconds, etc.
  
  Another mode is the Masterpieces mode in which you can play demos of the retro games that made 
 each Nintendo character what they are today (Sonic and Snake do not have them) . And for the collection 
 of trophies and stickers, there is also the Coin Launcher game in which you use coins collected 
 from Classic mode or The Subspace Emissary to do just that.
  
  There are a lot more single player modes and they are just too much to enumerate further.
  
 
  Unlockables
  Currently, I've collected about 300 stickers (that randomly fall during a match) , 200 CD's (which 
 also randomly fall during a match) and more than 100 trophies. The game announces you that, and 
 it announces when you collect every one of them. And that means that there are gonna be more than 
 300 stickers, 200 CD's and 100 trophies to be found in the game and as if the above modes weren't 
 enough to put the value meter to 10, this puts the meter to 11, if ever there was.
  
  Audio
  The soundtrack ranges from a remix of the arcade version of Super Mario Bros. to the special 
 Brawl version of Metal Gear Solid 4's Theme of Love, and you can select what song you'd like to 
 listen to in the My Music section. You can unlock more music, though, and that's via the aforementioned 
 unlockable CD's. So practically, I own more than 200 tracks right now, and every ditty is unique 
 and amazingly orchestrated. I definitely love the soundtrack, but if you're a hardcore Nintendo 
 fan (bring out the Family Computers, nerds) , you'll simply die... probably.
  
  Stage Editor
  Although the stages you fight in are ridiculously chaotic themselves, you can make 
 your own chaotic stage in the stage editor- and you can even unlock parts by making stages alone. 
 You can even upload them onto your SD card and share it with another WIi, or just put it up online!
 
  
  It's kinda like the Sims. There are available blocks and the blocks of another object cannot touch 
 the blocks of an object already placed. Basically, it's very user-friendly and intuitive because 
 you can just make stages from the get-go and without a hitch.
  
  Online
  Speaking of online, you can fight with other players around the world, or in your friends list. 
 However, not many people really play online in this game nowadays, but that probably is because 
 of Mario Kart. On the other hand, watching others play is far easier and you can bet on which team 
 will win, because normally, online matches are team battles.
  
  Other online features include snapshot sending, video sending, and stage uploading/downloading. 
 Stage downloading is particularly weird because it's like a "Flavor of the Day" kind of service 
 in which your Wii downloads one stage per day and after one day, it gets automatically deleted. 
 I mean, what if I want to keep a certain user-created stage? But than again, Wii memory is limited 
 so I guess it's surprisingly sensible.
  
  Overall
  Overall, the game is superbly done and was definitely worth the wait. The very much requested online 
 isn't really any fun, though, because the only thing you can do is bet coins on the winning team 
 in Spectator mode in which you watch other players brawling it out. Other then that, the game is 
 worth your money regardless whether you bought it pirated or original. There are a LOT of modes, 
 and multiplayer is simply the one of the best on any platform. If you have doubts buying this, 
 it probably is because you're just not a fighting game fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ifnot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 10:40 pm PT
Review:  I really can NOT find any words to describe this game!!! Wow! where do I start!?!! Okay, Super 
 Smash Bros. Brawl is the 3rd installment in the Super Smash Bros. series, the series is a unique 
 fighting game where you're on a stage fighting your opponents, the way you KO them is by knocking 
 them of the stage, the way the HP works is when you start a match you have 0% and when you get 
 hit by your opponent, your % goes up, and the higher it goes up the the weaker you get, and eventually 
 you get weak enough to go flying of the stage. So that's basically the core game play. Now the 
 game is based of of Nintendo characters (Except for 2 ) , characters from franchises such as: Mario, 
 Zelda, Kirby, StarFox, Pokemon, and lots more!!!! first of all I would like to point out that this 
 series is a very big hit, the first game was for the N64, and it was one of the most popular games 
 for that console, same for the next game in the series for the GC, and I think right now this game 
 is the biggest hit on the Wii right now, and it will be remembered for years and years to come, 
 there is so much in this game! you can have a jolly old time getting together and playing 4- player 
 brawls for hours and never get tired! also if your friends can't come over just play over Wi-Fi, 
 and there's tons more features! such as: A 1- player story mode adventure that is called: The Subspace 
 Emissary, with awesome cinematic cut-scenes, as well as event matches, Home-run contest, multi 
 man brawl, classic mode, all star mode, boss battles, target smash, and tons more! you can also 
 do stuff like build your own stages! and collect trophies, save replays, the list just keep going!!! 
 you will never get bored of this game!!!! oh, and did I mention, the graphics and the music are 
 amazing!! I think it's the best game on the Wii....... oh no sorry..... it IS the best game on 
 the Wii!!!! so if you don't have it yet, you better go buy it now!!!!! right Now!!!!!!!! and don't 
 even think about the price of this game because it's way beyond money's worth, I myself would pay 
 millions for this game!!!!! It is the closest thing to heaven. this game is smashing paradise!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magicvalkyrie
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 27, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  I know I'm not the only one that says: I've been waiting two years for this game! After long anticipation 
 for it, Super Smash Bros. Brawl is finally here! This game has action and plenty of it along with 
 more players and more stages. But wait there's more. Each character is able to do a special attack 
 if they obtain a 'Final Smash,' which is a very new feature to the game. For some, the Final Smash 
 can be an advantage or disadvantage. For example: At Super Smash Bros tournaments, some prefer 
 not to use the final smash because they would much rather rely on 'skill.' In advantage, if you 
 use strong characters like Ike, the final smash can be a great advantage and most of the time an 
 easy win, but that's just my opinion. Well back to the real review, overall this game is fantastic 
 and the graphics are a whole lot better. Gameplay varies for some. For me, I suggest using the 
 Gamecube remote because it's a lot easier to use and plus for people who have played the previous 
 game are used to using the Gamecube remote controller. There is also a new mode called Subspace 
 Emissionary in which you can play 1 to 2 players to complete a story line. The only downside to 
 this is that the clips freeze and take a long time to load up which is why I rated this game a 
 9.9. The load up for the Wi-Fi connection can somtimes take long as we ll but other than that, 
 the game is great. I suggest for any those who haven't bought this game to buy it because it is 
 truly worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brian0031
Rating: 8
Date: May 27, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  I first like to start out saying that I LOVED the Super Smash Games:
  
  I bought both of the first two the day they were released and I easily spent 50-100 hours on Super 
 Smash Bros. 1 and 100-200 hours on Super Smash Bros Melee.
  
  Right before the 3rd game came out I looked at the website and saw all of the new characters and 
 stages (This was a bad idea) .
  
  So when the game came out it was like I was playing the same game I was playing in 1999:
  
 
  I knew all the characters and I was repeating the same gameplay I had been repeating for the last 
 nine or so years while playing Super Smash Bros. Brawl
  
  Is it a great game? Probably
  Is it worthy of a 9.5? Probably
  
  But in my case the night I bought the game I played for 
 2-3 hours with 2 other guys and then quit.
  
  Over the next week I played Subspace Emissionary and a couple of melee battles for around 5 hours 
 and then quit.
  
  Subspace Emissionary is extremely tedious/boring and I felt the Adventure mode in Melee was more 
 entertaining.
  
  I went back to playing 1vs1vs1 and that got boring so we all quit.
  
  It would have been better if I had just rented and saved the $50.
  
  Lesson learned- Never 
 expect too much from a game you have been playing for nine years. 
  
  I guess it is just time for something new I still haven't touched the Super Smash disk since the 
 first week it came out.....
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: firecookie29
Rating: 10
Date: May 27, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Brothers Brawl is the best four-player game for the Wii ever! Especially with its new 
 story mode: The Subspace Emissary. With two players doing adventure at once, it gets really hard 
 to stay on the screen and keep track of people. Along with the adventure mode, there's a bigger 
 selection of characters. From pokemon to Donkey Kong, and Mario to Sonic. Including new online 
 multiplayer, stage editor, stickers, and more. So when you play this game once, you'll want to 
 play it again. Probably, the most surprising thing to happen is when they added two third party 
 characters to the list. So I hope you'll someday buy this game! Even when you don't have anyone 
 to play Brawl with, you can still kick the computers' but! And if you have more than 4 friends 
 over who want to play, you can try the new rotation mode. So like I said, I hope you buy this game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: townsenda1
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 27, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Brothers Brawl is definately the title I have been waiting for since I bought my Wii 
 on launch day. So without wasting any time let's jump right into it.
  Let's start with the gameplay. Nintendo has kept the same formula that has made the series great 
 with some added changes. First, you are given many options to as to what controller you want to 
 use to dish out the pain. Your options include; Wii remote alone, remote and nunchuk, classic controller, 
 and finally the gamecube controller in regular and wavebird. I prefer the remote and nunchuk. Next, 
 the actual fighting. It's so great that the characters are so different than one another. Each 
 character is given distinctive fighting moves and styles with no fighter feeling like he is just 
 a remake of another fighter. In addition to this SSBB has kept all the weapons you love and has 
 added the ultimate weapon, The Smash Ball. This item is a ball that floats around the ring and 
 once broken the fighter can unleash their ultimate attack. Whether it's Mario's super fireball, 
 or Links' triple slash and final blow, each is beautifully done and incredibly effective. 
  SSBB has added many different battle modes for you fighting pleasure. Subspacemissionary is the 
 newest adventure mode in where you play through different battle scenarios like adventure mode 
 on the previos title just better. And for fans of the old game, they have kept classic, tournament, 
 event , and special battle mode. Let's not forget that now the brawl goes online where you can 
 play with friends or anyone classic or special brawls. It is definately the missing link from previous 
 SSB titles. SSBB has also added a lot of unlockable fighters taking the total number of fighters 
 to around 35. 
  The game is visually great, even as far as Wii games go. They have all been given make-overs to 
 look even better than before. You can see every button on Mario's overalls to the triforce on Links 
 shield and sword. 
  All and all this game is great. Any person that has a Wii needs to own this title. It is fun for 
 all and will not disappoint. So I hope your ready for one of the best titles to grace the Wiii. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidgiff
Rating: 10
Date: May 27, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  This game ive waited till ive played about 70 hours to make sure its still awsome. Heres the review 
 injoy.
  
  gameplay 10/10
  I love the gameplay its great it not just, lets go nock someones health bar yay. You actually have 
 to get there percent high and watch them fly. THeres also the subspace emmiserey wich is a side 
 scrolline mario kind of thing but with 100000000 times better graphics sword fight bombs wizzing 
 and guns firing. Not kidding.
  graphics 9/10
  THe graphics are amazing but still metroid 3 and mario galaxy have better. But on top of that it 
 has exelent graphics. You can even see stictches on there clothes.
  sound 10/10
  Exelent music all of it is amazing thats all ive got to say.
  replay value 10/10
  I play this 
 game still all the time its exelent nuff said. theres so much to do like classic all star stadium 
 and events mode still to go. Theres also 2 player subspace emissery brawl mode, classic all on 
 2 player
  overall 10/10
  Its exelent deffinately worth saving my money for a year and a half for this (I get a crappy allowance,2.00 
 a week.) I love it deffinateley worth buying no matter what. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honkyjoe
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros brawl takes everything from the previous games and makes it 200% better
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay of brawl remains almost identacle to the older smash bros games.. Take tons 
 of characters and battle it out on stages in order to knock your opponent as far off as possible 
 with items and power attacks. Brawl has a lineup of 50 or so characters.. more than any other installment 
 of the series. Besides the regular stage mode theres also a story concept called "subspace emmissary".. Subspace 
 emissary is a nice change and lots of fun for beggining players.. More experienced players will 
 find parts of subspace emmissary a drag to play through. Another sweet new thing about brawl is 
 online multiplayer.. Though you can sometimes lag out and theres no voice chat. The MP is still 
 a great addition.. Overall the gameplay is what makes this game sooo awsome
  
  Graphics: The best on the Wii.. The stages are colorfull and well textured. The characters look 
 exactely like they should, and everything is as it should be. There is no clipping ive seen or 
 texture glitches which is good. 
  
  Sound: Brawl is accompanied by an amazing soundtrack that makes you feel like your in the front 
 seat at an orchestral performance. Besides the sweet sound effects when we punch and kick your 
 opponensts you will also be greated by your favorite characters saying there most memorable quotes.
 
  
  Replay value: The replay value for brawl is very high because of its awsome multiplayer action. 
 You will find yourslef coming back to this game all the time. The characters.. The stages.. the items.. the 
 final smashes Everything is soo much fun
  
  Overall: excellent game.. Best on the wii and a possible GOTY
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phopanda112
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  It's Brawl. 'nuff said. The game is an absolute blast. the multiplayer is scary addicting and you 
 get an instant feel of accomplishment for every character you unlock. The addition of an actual 
 story with actual cutscenes that is longer than most games alone is insane. This game is the epitome 
 of what the Wii is about. Granted, the online is a bit rough, but it is still a great addition. 
 You will play this game for hours without getting bored of it, and if so, just go play COD4, those 
 with no respect for an absolutely revolutionary game in every way. Buy this game and you are set 
 for life. you will not need another game, and the system in place for unlocking is absolutely addicting. 
 You will spend hours trying to get one box unlocked, determined not to use a golden hammer. The 
 characters are marvelous, the new items are ridiculous and the game is a shining star. You will 
 be embarrased looking through your Wii history and looking at all the time you have spent playing 
 this game. If you have a Wii, buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pokefreak113
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  This game, Super Smash Bros Brawl, is the best game I have ever played in my life! There's an all-star 
 line up of 35 characters, all ranging from the people many Nintendo fanatics have heard of, like 
 Mario or Link, to some others that Nintendo fraks like myself have never heard of! I didn't even 
 know who Snake was until Brawl. If you haven't played Brawl yet, I highly suggest you do. The game 
 has the best multiplayer of any game, and it has great online. Sure, it's a little laggy, but it's 
 still very fun. If you have friends that want to pick on a character like Peach with someone with 
 deadly weapons like Snake, or if you and your friends want to play a game where they don't leave 
 just because they're losing, SSBB as we call it is definately worth a purchase. Buy this game, 
 or I'll declare to my friends you don't have a soul! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rwizzy3
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl. The latest of the series and boy does it live up to it. With the addition 
 of new items, new characters, new stages including ones from Melee. Also with the addition of a 
 special attack known as a Final Smash. It truly gives you that Super Smash Bros feel. The Subspace 
 Emissary Adventure is something new, has it's difficult moments but truly shows a very well done 
 platform game at work. Regardless of the Wii not having HD, the game still looks phenomenal. The 
 textures on the characters and all of the stages look amazing regardless. If the Wii did have the 
 ability to go into 1080p, this game would be over the top. The controls still have that Super Smash 
 feel they've always had. Whether it be the Wiimote, Wiimote and Nunchuk, Classic controller or 
 Gamecube controller for that old school Super Smash Bros feel. This game has a good feel to it, 
 you can easily pick it up and play. If you haven't gotten the chance to try this game out or if 
 you have a Wii and haven't taken a look at this game then you are definitely missing out. 
  
  if u r looking to by super mario galaxy review coins msg me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sAQPat
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j 
 j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j
  j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j 
 j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j 
 j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j 
 j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j 
 j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j 
 j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j 
 j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j 
 j j j j j j j j j 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AuXoIs114
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl. The latest of the series and boy does it live up to it. With the addition 
 of new items, new characters, new stages including ones from Melee. Also with the addition of a 
 special attack known as a Final Smash. It truly gives you that Super Smash Bros feel. The Subspace 
 Emissary Adventure is something new, has it's difficult moments but truly shows a very well done 
 platform game at work. Regardless of the Wii not having HD, the game still looks phenomenal. The 
 textures on the characters and all of the stages look amazing regardless. If the Wii did have the 
 ability to go into 1080p, this game would be over the top. The controls still have that Super Smash 
 feel they've always had. Whether it be the Wiimote, Wiimote and Nunchuk, Classic controller or 
 Gamecube controller for that old school Super Smash Bros feel. This game has a good feel to it, 
 you can easily pick it up and play. If you haven't gotten the chance to try this game out or if 
 you have a Wii and haven't taken a look at this game then you are definitely missing out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seb19
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Game storyline: In multiplayer games, characters from all Nintendo universes meet up in Nintendo 
 locales to duke it out. In the solo mode called "The Subspace Emissary," the world of Smash Bros. 
 is invaded by an entity called the Ancient Minister and his army of creatures, called "The Primid." 
 Normally, characters come alive in the world of Smash Bros. to do battle, then turn back into trophies 
 when defeated. However, the Ancient Minister starts turning characters into trophies to harness 
 their power, then detonates bombs that suck pieces of the world back into his realm of Subspace. 
 Eventually, all the characters must work together to defeat the invading creatures from Subspace 
 - this is accomplished by playing through side-scrolling levels.
  
  How to progress through the game: For multiplayer games, players pick characters, set rules and 
 locations for where they want to play and then duke it out. In Solo Mode, characters play through 
 a long, side-scrolling adventure, beating up enemies along the way as they watch short cinematics 
 starring their favorite characters.
  
  Characters: Mario, Samus, Bowser, Donkey Kong, Solid Snake, Meta Knight, Kirby, Pikachu, Zero Suit 
 Samus, Link, Zelda, Pit and Wario, to name just a few. Anyone and anything from a Nintendo universe 
 could appear in this game in one form or another.
  
  Special powers/weapons/moves/features: Anything from a Nintendo game could conceivably be in this 
 game, whether it's a musical score, an obscure item or a character that shows up to help the fighters. 
 Super Smash Bros. Brawl is eminently customizable, so players can choose the frequency of items 
 appearing, adjust musical scores and basically play the game however they'd like. Items range from 
 baseball bats to proximity mines to Pok Balls to Assist Trophies, which spawn characters like 
 Hammer Bros. and Sim City's Dr. Wright to attack others 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beepyou34
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 22, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is pretty much everything Nintendo in one disk. The game engine is the 
 same as in previous games, but the graphics have been ramped up considerably. You pick from one 
 of 35 characters, with virtually limitless combinations possible. There is a new adventure mode 
 called the Subspace Emissary, which takes you to 28 combat-filled levels with characters from different 
 Nintendo universes at your command. This mode can be played co-op all the way through, and is filled 
 with many entertaining cutscenes that you can view in the unlockables section again and again. 
 And speaking of unlockables, this game has a whole bunch of them, including stickers, trophies, 
 music tracks, classic game trials, cutscenes, trailers, and a whole bunch more. But this game is 
 all about character-vs.-character madness, and that's all that matters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaBrownie
Rating: 10
Date: May 22, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is absoulute PWNG. Anyone and evertone should play this game at least once. 
  
  All of you favorite Nintendo characters are back. The question remains- Who is the greatest of 
 them all...? This time the series continues, and this time better than ever! New stages with stunning 
 visuals, awsome new characters including Ike and Lucario, online brawls, more customizable 2-player 
 stages, a soundtrack collection from almost every Nintendo game, and new storymode and collectables.
 
  
  A Nintendo game never looked so realistic... The stages add depth, and completely show each Nintendo 
 games style. All the stages that you remember are replaced by glorious specticals from the Nintendo 
 collection. Stages that you always (probably) wanted are here, and meet every gamers style and 
 taste. For the Luigi fans, Luigis Mansion is an ideal paradise. For people who want a taste of 
 Zeldas darker side, Hyrule Temple has been traded out for the Bridge of Eldin. For the more classical 
 gamers, 45m from Donkey Kong offers a blast from the past. And for the people who can't get enough 
 of the cute Pikmin, Distant Planet offers danger and adventure. Not to forget stages like Smashville 
 from Animal Crossing, Frigate Orpheon from Metroin, and New Pork City from Earthbound. There are 
 stages from the other 2 Smash games, for those who wnet to remain familiar with their surroundings.
 
  
  All new characters join the battle for supremacy from multiple other Nintendo games. Fans of the 
 Donkey Kong games will have a little fun playing with the random Diddy Kong. Pokemon lovers will 
 unleash the power as Lucario. For fans of the Zelda series, Toon Link comes from the high seas 
 to battle the forces of darkness. Samus comes out of her armor as Zero Suite Samus, and Pit from 
 Kid Icarus has come down from heaven to save his fans from extinction. Plenty more characters join 
 the battle, but none are as surprising as Solid Snake from Metal Gear Solid and Sonic from Sonic 
 the Hedgehog. This might be Sonics first good game in the last 5 years. Each character has a stunning 
 and powerful Final Smash to lay the smackdown on their enimies. 
  
  Now fans all over can battle eachother to see who the best is on the online brawl feature. Players 
 from around the world grab their controllers to battle others for the chance to become the best. 
 While waiting for the other players to get ready for battle, free training with the sandbag is 
 available to practice moves and just to beat the crap out of for fun.
  
  This games 2-player Brawl mode offers a vararity of custimizations and handicaps for everyone. 
 You can have coin battles with everyone in slow motion, tag battles while wearing bunny ears with 
 the battle in fast motion, or brawls with only pokeballs and motion detectors while invisible... 
 the possibilities are mind blowing. You can custamize the damage ratio, what items you want to 
 appear and how often, and much much more.
  
  Speaking of custimizations, players can now choose what music from hundreds of Nintendo games they 
 want to listen to. Song of Storms on the Pirate Ship, Team Galactic Battle at the Spear Pillar, 
 2:00PM on Smashville and plenty more. And players can now build their own stages. Model it after 
 a land from Pikmin, make it look like a classic Super Mario Bros. stage, or make your favorite 
 stage from Twilight Princess... It's all up to imagination!
  
  Adventure mode from meele was fun, but now an entire story for every character was added for even 
 more fun and adventure! Filled with large-scale boss fights like 2 extra large Diddy Kongs, Rayquaze, 
 Porky, Crazy Hand, and the main bad guy Taboo... Journey down challanging stages while collecting 
 lots of goodies like trophies, CDs, Stickers, and more as you fight for the freedom of every Nintendo 
 character!
  
  This game is a must have for anyone. It's ment to meet everyones tasts and likes, and adds hundreds 
 of hours of gamplay to the most hardcore of players! The content in the game is almost limitless, 
 and the game adds non-stop fun to everyone who plays it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chingaso619
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 21, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  this is the best game ever so cool but it would of been even more better if roy was there but anyways 
 i had so much fun playing it and loved the new adventure mode i really liked the idea of letting 
 snake joined the brawl recommend this game for all of those who like multiplayer games and it makes 
 a good competitive game with your friends or family members that is why i give this game a 9.5 
 on 10 because of roy well he was my favourite character in melee oh i forgot to mention that i 
 was so glad to see that pichu was taken off and mewtwo as well on the new characters ike was ok 
 but too slow lucario as well lucas had some attack similar to ness. toon link was not a good idea 
 for me they should have sticked to young link wario was not bad as well as meta night but king 
 dedede sure did suck he is kinda strong but too slow zero suit samus was ok snake was awsome but 
 kinda slow when it comes to 1 on 1 combat captain olimar is so weak pit was ot that bad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevinmaxtor
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2008 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Brawl, the action 3D side- scolling game that every one has been waiting for, the series first 
 started out on the N64, back then it broke new grounds for what people should expect from an 3D 
 fighting game. About nine years later, we now have brawl, the sequal to Melee. It still has all 
 the old modes like classic, event match, team brawl, special brawl, and just brawl and a hand full 
 of new modes. They include, The new Subspace, and most notably the online mode which you can fight 
 up to 3 other people online, 2 people can play online at the same time, and 4 people can play on 
 a local system. The subspace mode also lunlocks a lot of new charcters and stickers plus there 
 is now the addition of trophies to collect. With so many modes, Brawl could of became confusing, 
 but in here they are a perfect match. There are 4 ways to play the game, the wiimote itself, the 
 wiimote and nunchuck, the classic controler and the gamecube controller. The Graphics are much 
 improved from the N64 and melee, and the soundtrack is stil; l as good as it is, there are even 
 soundtracks to unlock and play, plus there is a stage maker that you can use to make your own levels! 
 All in all SSBB offers a lot for just fifty bucks, the comanation of the new single player and 
 the new online mutilplayer make this one of the best games out for the Wii. Overall, I give this 
 game a 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingDoe
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 21, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Brawling, battling, action-packed video game that features a varied roster of characters for four-player 
 simultaneous melees! Use your Wii Remote and Nunchuck controls to deal serious damage to your opponents 
 and win the game! Yay, and then get you butt kick by your friends. Noooooo! Features a number of 
 new additions, including an Adventure Mode (with co-op play) , a wealth of new characters and stages, 
 and online combat for multiple players to face off against each other from anywhere! (Like in you 
 bathroom) With more than six million copies sold worldwide. (Good thing i reserved mine) Nintendo's 
 latest fighter features 35 mascots  a figure up from 12 in the original and 26 in Melee. It also 
 includes more than 40 different levels, each a throwback to classic franchise stages, both from 
 Nintendo and also from the likes of SEGA and Konami. (Imagine Kratos in this game that will be so 
 tight ^_^) Point is, it's a much meatier package! Yummy ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NarutoGNT4rocks
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2008 10:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain amazing. The characters look great, the stages look great, man, everything 
 looks great. Although some of the graphics were a bit choppy, it looks still looks fine as long 
 as your not super close to the TV. 
  
  The Subspace Emissionary. Hmmmm. How can I say this. Good but not fantastic. The bosses were somewhat 
 fun, but some of the stages were unnecessary. The trophy stands got annoying after a time, but 
 don't get too frustrating. 
  
  Now the single player. Of course, classic is just like the previous games. It includes several 
 stages of opponents to beat, finishing off with Master and Crazy Hand. So onto the stadium. Disappointingly, 
 every single target test is the same for every character, but in different difficulties. Home-run 
 contest. Same. Multi-Man. Same. Boss Battles. Gets on your nerves. I hate fighting Duon over and 
 over because i don't like fighting him. But those are minor mistakes.
  
  The multiplayer, as always is incredible. I mean who doesn't want Mario and Luigi to tussle. Especially 
 if your friend is Luigi. You want to kick his butt, right? But this time, Brawl has added the best 
 feature on the game. WI-FI. Doesn't everyone want to kick a little Japanese 9 year old's rear end. 
 I thought so.
  
  All and all, this game is just so good i can eat it, poop it out, eat it, barf it out, and eat 
 it again, it would still taste like sweet, delicious nachos (I feel like nachos right now) . A masterpiece. 
 Yummm, NACHOS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superstarmario1
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl is the best game for the wii. the smash ball makes every fight crazy and 
 fun. now with more characters the fun is endless especial with friends. SSE makes you want to come 
 back and keep playing it so you can find out what happens next and with bosses to beat it makes 
 it more fun. getting trophies is now even funner because you have to shoot coins at the trophy and 
 you even get stickers. stage builder is what i wanted to do. make stages. taking snapshots when ever 
 you want makes it easy. and the challenges also make you want to play more so you can pass it all.
 
  
  playing online with friends and people you don't know is fun. who knows that person is playing 
 maybe in Japan
  
  PLUS with sonic and snake and a lot of other charcters makes this game
  
  PERFECT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic_Tidus
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  Super Smash bros. Brawl is the best installment to the Wii system. With the vast amount of characters 
 and stages. This game will get you addicted so easily. The online feature is fun when playing against 
 friends or random oppenents. The only bad side to it, is the lag that takes place in some matches.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is about the same in melee, but a little bit better. Its a little harder if your using 
 a wii mote with kunchuk attachment, but if your using one of your old gamecube controllers, then 
 your pretty much good yourself. The fighting is the same, just endless killing of your enemy. Or 
 just goofing off like everyone does.
  
  Subspace Emissary:
  The gameplay itself is like one the old kirby stages. Where you keep on going forward, beating 
 up badguys and so on till you reach the end of the stage. The cutscenes itself is really good. 
 Also, a easy way to unlock all of the characters, or just do it on classic mode.
  
  Overall:
  The Game is a must have for nintendo fans and for people who want to beat people up. 
 So just cough up 50 bucks and just buy it, trust me, you will really like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyperwangtang
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  Hmm... where to start...
  
  Graphics- 9/10
  The cartoony graphics work well with the game. Sure its not at the top of the list for best graphics, 
 but its pretty sweet.
  
  Story- 6/10
  Brawl is one of those games that work well without a story. So I wasn't surprised that the story 
 is a "been there, done that" plot. 
  
  Control- 9/10
  Wiimote itself: Its just impossible to play like a pro with just the wiimote.
  Wiimote + Nunchuck: 
 A little bit better. But it just doesn't feel right.
  Classic Controller: Better than both.
  Gamecube Controller: Best controller to use.
  
  Gameplay- 
 10/10
  This is Super Smash Bros. at its best. The single player campaign is great for a few hours. But...
 
  
  Multiplayer- 10/10
  ... The multiplayer is where its at. More characters, more stages, more everything. And with online 
 capabilities, the multiplayer is badass.
  
  Extras/ Replay Value- 10/10
  Theres a TON of trophies and stickers to collect, along with extra modes and music. So its gonna 
 take over (an estimate of ) 300 hours to get every single thing. 
  
  Overall- 10/10
  Great to play by yourself, even better to play with friends, this game is a must buy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilarchie232
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 21, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl is arguably one of Nintendo's most popular franchises since it debut way 
 back on the Nintendo 64 in 1999. Since then it has had two other iterations, Super Smash Bros Melee 
 on the Gamecube, and now Super Smash Bros Brawl on Wii. Super Smash Bros is basically a who's who 
 of Nintendo mascots and protagonists that duke it out in arenas from the Nintendo universe, just 
 in case you were wondering.
  
  Probably the most intriguing part to Smash Bros this time around is the new Single player experience, 
 the Subspace Emissary. The basic back story is that the bad guys from each major Nintendo game 
 has joined forces with an unfamiliar force and has started to turn everyone into trophies of themselves. 
 Don't think this is some after thought from the developers there are beautiful full motion cut-scenes 
 that tie together the story, and is full of Nintendo nostalgia. However it plays as a side-scrolling 
 platformer, which ends up feeling awkward when your character has a high damage percentage and 
 gets knocked back about half a level. Also there is no way really for your character to die by 
 reaching a certain percentage only falling of the stage which contributes to the above statement. 
 However though I still found this mode rather enjoyable and it took me quite a while to beat, about 
 11 hours.
  
  There is also the classic mode that returns from previous games, and All Star mode that lets you 
 face off against every character you have. Also, Target Smash and trophy collection returns, you 
 can also now collect stickers that you use to upgrade your characters in the single player mode. 
 You can also collect music this time, all of the tracks are absolutely amazing and show a good 
 mix of old and new. 
  
  The real reason to play Smash Bros is for its great multi-player aspects, with the same great local 
 multi-player returning and brand new online multi-player added makes this a great game for partying. 
 This time there are 37 characters and 34 stages smashing has never been better, especially with 
 the new Smash balls added. These items let unleash devastating attacks on your opponents, while 
 these do change the tide of battle quite a bit there is usually two per match, which tries to even 
 things out. There are also the same great customizable options in brawl this time. Want to have 
 a giant, bunny-hood, spicy curry match go ahead! Also item options are also back, allowing you 
 to turn of the cheaper items. A shallow, but fun level editor lets you create your own stages and 
 save them to your Wii or SD card, the only downside is that you can't take these online. You can 
 also take your own replays and pictures and save them. 
  
  Brawl offers a multitude of options when it comes to control. You can either use a Gamecube controller, 
 the Classic controller, the Wiimote and Nunchuk combo, or the wiimote turned old school. You can 
 also edit the controller figurations through individual names that act as a sort of save file to 
 your preferences. I would have to recommend the Classic or Gamecube controller if you're going 
 to take this serious. Surprisingly though the Wii remote was not all that hard to get used to other 
 then that up on the d-pad is jump. 
  
  The on-line mode is probably the games biggest attraction this time around and it is certainly 
 nice to see the game go this direction it still dose not feel fully fleshed out. There is no support 
 for voice chat or even text chat, so you don't really get the same amount of trash talk you get 
 locally. Also, I'd say about every seven out of ten, stranger matches are playable but that isn't 
 lag free connections only playable to the point it doesn't freeze every five seconds, also you 
 experience some random disconnects. However playing against friends was a relatively problem free. 
 Also, there are some co-op modes with your friend's on-Line, which is nice to see. There is also 
 a new spectator mode that allows you to Gamble on other player's matches with coins, you can also 
 allow other players to Watch your matches. Last but not least of the on-line is the Smash Service. 
 This Allow you to receive custom made stages, replays and snap shots from other 
  brawler's that submit them to Nintendo.
  
  Overall, Super Smash Bros Brawl is a tremendous 
 game, one that is sure to fill the hearts of the Nintendo faithful. While it does feel a lot like 
 Melee on Gamecube, it feels like a much more polished version of that game with loads more content. 
 If your looking for a game to enjoy alone, or amongst friends Brawl would have to be it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Javrixx
Rating: 7
Date: May 19, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  I probably should have got this when it first came out, but I didn't. I got Mario Kart and this 
 at the same time. I played this first, and enjoyed it. Very fun, but I didn't want to play it all 
 the time, not much replay value.
  
  The big con with this is it's multiplayer. Don't get me wrong, it is a lot of fun multiplayer. 
 But without a simple ranking system and faster matches, I just don't want to play it as much. I 
 wished they would have used a similar ranking system as Mario Kart, but oh well.
  
  It is a very good and fun game, but too many other games dominate my time.
  
  This game will 
 be best if:
  - You have other people that can play with you all the time (2 player wi-fi team battles are amazing 
 fun)
  - You like to just play just to beat up other people. Meaning, you don't care about any type of 
 ranking system.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link_SLAUGHTERS
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  This game is worth buying. It is so much fun and with all the different stages, characters and the 
 other events it has fun forever. It is also much fun to play with your friends through wi-fi. Amazing 
 graphics for wii just like most of their non wii games such as wii sports or wii play. This game 
 is much better than the old one for game cube. even though the subspace is a bit difficult it is 
 somewhat long. Anyways it is an awesome game and is so much fun everyone with a wii should get 
 it. Anybody who thinks different than me as in negative ways they are freaks. With all these great 
 characteristics that should be in a game like this it is perfect. The new characters are pretty 
 good as well as the veterans. I think the best new character is ROB. Most characters are pretty 
 good except Fox and Donkey Kong are idiots. One time me and DK only had 1 life left and he picked 
 me up and ran off the stage killing us both. What an idiot. Great game anyhow and LINK RULES!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HsinadRamo
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  If you want a game that is highly addictive, has a lot of characters from different games and has 
 a great storyline, then SSBB is the game for you. The game has very good graphics and a great multiplayer. There 
 are 3 ways to use the controller but i prefer to use the wii remote and the nuncuk. You can attack 
 with the A button and use the special attacks with the B button. You can jump with the C button 
 on the nuncuk or by pressing up. You can block by using the Z button on the nuncuk. Pushing down 
 will make you crouch. Attacking while pressing on different directions will make you attack in different 
 ways. When you see a smash ball (the flying ball that you see when fighting) you should attack, once 
 it is destroyed you can use your final smash with the B button. Every character has a different 
 final smash so it will be fun to use the characters. You can play the story mode called The Subspace 
 Emisarry where you can unlock new characters by playing it. You can also unlock the characters by 
 playing a certain number of brawls. You can also create your own arena and then you can battle it 
 out in your new arena. Alright, i should not spoil the game any further so you guys should try the 
 game out and i think you guys will totally be addicted to this totally awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supermariobro9
Rating: 10
Date: May 18, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  Super smash bros. brawl is the best of its series. It has 35 characters and all new maps. Also 
 the story mode is long and it will take you a couple days to beat it not like in melee where it 
 only took you a couple of minutes. Some of the new characters are like solid snake, sonic, pit, 
 olimar, wario, and lots more. The levels are awesome some of the new levels are like delfino plaza, 
 pokemon stadium 2, bridge of eldin, luigis mansion, and a whole bunch more. It also lets you pick 
 some levels form super smash bros melee. Another thing you can do is create your own level and 
 yes it is awesome, of course the levels you make arent as good as the ones the developers made 
 for the game but there still fun to play on. You can unlock pieces for building your levels but 
 you have most of them when you start out. Collecting trophies is different to. You are like a turret 
 gun hooked on to the wall and you shoot down ships and other things along the way, and when a trophie 
 come out and you shoot it you get that trophie, you also shoot out coins which youve collected 
 throughout the game. So pick up your wii remote run to the store get super smash bros brawl, come 
 back home plop yourself on that couch and have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenmachine05
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Relax. Don't try and fight it. You and I both know that we can't resist the legend that is Smash 
 Bros. Brawl is no exception. In fact, it's probably the best one in the series. What Melee didn't 
 excel in, Brawl does. The characters, the stages, the items and the new final smash, all wackier 
 and greater than ever before. The modes are extensive as well with newcomers like The Subspace 
 Emissary and Sticker Mode, yet multiplayer fighting is still where it's at. And, with four control 
 options, this game has a little something for everyone. Here's the low-down:
  
  Gameplay: Exciting and extensive. There is just so much to do, yet all of it fun. Sure, Subspace 
 Emissary, the games story mode, can get a little repetetive, but who cares when the game is this 
 perfect? It's just got to be overlooked. The character motions and moves are fluid and have nice 
 control. The stages fair well to all the fighting going on, and look great at the same time (but 
 that's for later) . All the unlockables add another level to gameplay, but the one thing that creates 
 the biggest buzz on the battlefield is the Final Smash. It's the one thing all will fight for, 
 as much as you may deny it. It's sort of a finishing move, but not exactly, that wipes the whole 
 screen clean of your enemies. The brand new addition of Assist Trophies also play a big role, as 
 they can ultimately decide the fate of another player. The online multiplayer doesn't have many 
 features, but the fighting is still fantastic as always. All in all, gameplay rocks and there is 
 just nothing bad to say. And too bad if you think otherwise. 10/10
  
  Graphics: The colours and frame rate and lights and everything just looks great. It has all really 
 been vamped up from Melee. There is sometimes a little slowdown, considering some systems can't 
 handle a double layer disc, but there is usually no lag going on. There is a sleekness to everything 
 that makes it look very professional. No bad in this department either. 10/10
  
  Sound: The music is probably the next best thing about this game, second only to the actual brawling. 
 The list of tunes is massive, and considering so many great musical directors were involved, it 
 comes at no surprise. Some classics are played in their original forms, while most other songs 
 come completely re-recorded with absolute perfection. If only there was a soundtrack available. 
 11/10 (Ya, I did it 'cuz I can)
  
  Controls: There are four types of controls to Brawl. The Wiimote by itself, the Wiimote with Nunchuck, 
 the Classic controller, and the Gamecube controller. That's pretty much it. They all work great. 
 Well, maybe except for the Wiimote by itself. 9/10
  
  Value: Must I even touch this category. Obviously this game has great replay value and the cost... 
 well, it's worth every penny. If you have money to spend, spend it on this. If you don't, you're 
 missing out on one of the greatest Nintendo games of all time. 10/10
  
  So, that's it. Nothing more to say. Good job Nintendo, keep the good games coming! Thnx for reading!
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AWESOME_GAME
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 17, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl sure took a while to be realeased, after so many delays, rumors, lies, 
 surprises... But it was all worth it. Brawl is officialy the most polemic game also. Lots of shouts 
 around the internet were made like "Sonic is in Brawl?" or "Give us Snake back!" or "Another delay?! 
 #$*%!!!!" or "Don't put Megaman!" and much more. It was so polemic, that Smash Bros. DOJO!! became 
 the most visited site of the day several times (www. smashbros. com) . It was the base of info for 
 any fan. And it striked the world when it posted that Sonic was included in the roster, alongside 
 several other newcomers. Anyway, Super Smash Bros. series has prooved, since 1999, that it is the 
 best Fighting, and party game out there. Gather friends and duke it out with your favorite characters, 
 and have fun beating up kirby. You will be swearing, teasing, hitting the floor, but always, always 
 having fun. All of us thought that nothing could be bigger and better than Super Smash Bros. Melee, 
 but now, it became just a mere little shattered piece of sand compared to Brawl. Here are just 
 a few of modes present in SSBB: Subspace Emissary, Classic, Allstar, Training, Homerun Contest, 
 Events, Trophie shooter, Online (Wifi) , Championship... And much, MUCH more. I am not joking. And 
 Brawl isn't only a champion in modes, but also in soundtrack. With around 300 songs. Yeah, you 
 heard it. 300 songs, this isn't only the largest soundtrack in videogame hostory, but also the 
 best. You will only find the bset of the best music from the best of the best franchises here. 
 From the awesome remix of Corneria and Mute City theme, to the original Mario bros. and Ocarina 
 of Time theme. You will find it all, and with the great addition of personalizing stages with its 
 own selection of music to play while Brawls. Speaking of additions, obviously we can't forget one 
 of Brawl's best and most creative additions. The incredible, powerpacked final smashes! Each character 
 has their unique and awesome final smash, wich are obtained by smacking open a smash ball that 
 appears randomly on the screen, before all others, creating a massive caos to get the smash ball. 
 When you get one, you start glowing, and just press B to unleashe... From showering meteors, to 
 fire blasts, from wild triforce slashes, to 1hitKO ultimate sword slashes, from pushing oponents 
 to a a cooking bowl, to unbelievably eye oppening energy beams... Well, I think you get the point. 
 They are all cool and you won't rest untill you see all of them. By the way, now lets talk about 
 the Character Roste. Well, the roster has a total of 35 characters, but if you count party characters 
 such as Pokmon trainer, you will have a total of 39 characters. Thats almost 40! Amazing leap, 
 since Melee has only 25! And a whole bunch of unexpected newcomers such as Captain Olimar and R. O. B.. 
 Each character has their own and unique stats. For example: Bowser has low speed, and really slow 
 attacks. But he is really strong. Mario is a all around character, and Samus is a master of projectiles. 
 These unique stats with low and good points makes a really balanced Brawl, making the game even 
 more addicting. On to the controles: it may sound strange, but in brawl you basicly just use two 
 buttons to attack (i'll be using the Classic Controller scheme) : A and B. A for weak, tilt, and 
 famouse titled smash attacks, and B for special attacks. The direction you tilt, or... Smash the 
 controle stick will determine your attack, and they are all pretty easy to pull out. You jump with 
 Y, or with the controle stick moved up. You can grab with Z button, and throw the opponent up, 
 down, left and right, each with a unique animation (and you can fall some punches on the face of 
 the opponent while grabbing by pressing A) . The learning curve is about 20 minutes, you will have 
 to get used to some irregularities compared to other fighting games.
  Well, we all remember that Nintendo implemented a large variety of trophies for you to collect 
 in Melee. Well, Brawl is the same, but this time you have a much larger collection, with about 
 200 more trophies + houndreds of stickers to collect. And then, if you are able to complete the 
 collection of both (wich is really challenging and only for hardcore gamers) , you can look with 
 honor with a wide open view to your entire Trophie collection, or go to the sticker center to see 
 your stickers, And to pass time, you can see the description of your trophies, telling the story 
 of the thing held on it. Or, you can also make photos of your trophies without bases, on neat backgrounds, 
 and make the same with stickers! All of these things makes this game never get old, plus the fact 
 that everyday, by simply connection to Nintendo Wifi, you will recieve a new photo, a new replay 
 data and a fan made stage, or you can submit your own and see if it is launched! Or opt by sending 
 these datas to added friends! But wait a second... "Fan made stages"? Yeah you heard it, in Brawl 
 you can create your own stages to battle! Tons of configuration options will make you put your 
 imagination to work! And the photo taking system is a lot better c ompared to Melee. Much remember 
 that in Melee the photo taking system was ridiculously stupid, and no one used it. You needed to 
 connect a 3rd player and had to use the complicated zoom and pass orders... But in Braw its much, 
 MUCH simplerl You can take a photo by simply pausing the game at any time, moving the camera anywhere, 
 and pressing Z! And even better, you can save thousands of photos to your SD card! And you can 
 do the same with replays, just press Z at the end of a match, and save tons of data on your SD 
 card. 
  Moving on, you can also play online. First choose between playing with added friends (you need 
 to add people as friends, with the annoying friends codes) or with anywone (wich chooses some one, 
 normaly regional, that is also itching for a battle) . In "with anyone" you can have a basic brawl, 
 or a team brawl. In with Friends the options are much wider. You can choose between multiman brawl, 
 basic brawl, homerun contest, and have freedom to change all the rules of Brawls. Online is quite 
 laggy, but you can't expect to play smoothly with someone that lives in Japan... If you play with 
 someone in or near your country, matches should go just fine. Beyond all these modes you can also 
 play demos of NES to N64 games on Masterpieces mode, or take a look at system chronicles. But nothing 
 is compared with the mode I am about to mention, wich may even be considered anoher game inside 
 a game.
  Subspace Emissary, the brand new adventure mode. Its an incredible action packed 2D adventure platformer. 
 You will fight your way through about 30 stages, tons of different enemies, solve puzzles, and 
 battle against unexpected bosses like Rayquaza and Porky. With about 20 hours of gameplay, SSE 
 can indeed be compared to another game. It also has eye oppening cell shaded cutscenes (60 fps!) 
 wich proove that the Wii having bad graphics is just a fan made rumor. And finaly, Nintendo added 
 a story behind all the fighting. At first, Nintendo's evil characters go on a strange mission of 
 transforming the good Nintendo characters into trophies. Throughout the stages and cutscenes, the 
 story starts to become clearer, Tabu, an evil spirit, has the evil plan to suck the entire... uhh... 
 Videogame land to the dephts of Subspace, wich seems to be a gap between demensions, a big "nothing". 
 At the end, all videogame characters (bad and evil) reunite to fight the evil spirit. The coolest 
 thing about SSE is seeing all the most famouse videogame characters reunite, and battle together. 
 Its priceless seeing Lucario and Meta Knight fight alongside Solid Snake! And another interesting 
 thing about SSE is that you can powerup you character stats with stickers, adding a little RPG 
 to it all.
  Hmm... Untill now I just said good things about SSBB, right? Well, time for some ranting!
  1st: 
 Online Brawl with Anywone is really limited, in all aspects 2nd: Sometimes the game freezes for 
 about 1 minute in the "ready to fight!" screen. 3rd: The famous phantom flaw, characters can simply 
 punch through walls, and characters can pass right through eachother 4th: Online quite laggy 5th: 
 Subspace gets really boring in the "Great Maze" stage 6th: Masterpieces are useless, since the 
 demos don't pass 5 minutes, and some are only 30 seconds. 7th: Nintendo insists in the "complete 
 *** with all characters" system 8th: You never know if the stickers you get throughout the game 
 are new or not. 9th: Some characters are not meant for platforming or target smashing 10th: It 
 is unexceptable that, wolf, falco and fox hadve the same final smashes, and Link and Toon Link 
 too. Clones don't exist anymore, but why didn't they be more creative?!
  
  Concluding: Even with some flaws, Super Smash Bros. Brawl is a perfect game, for any type of gamer. 
 With it's large variety of things to do, it will never get old. KOing 3 people at the same time 
 with a final smash or pulling out that perfect Meteor Smah is really rewarding. And nothing is 
 better than a classic Mario vs Link vs Sonic vs Solid Snake 5 stock match. Gather up friends, and 
 have a blast! 9.5 is my score.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecoolhh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Brawl was released March 9, 2008 after being delayed for a few months. The game is a fighter but 
 it is so much more. 
  
  Gameplay 9.5/10 : A new addition in Brawl is the new Campaign mode. It is basically a side scrolling 
 adventure with CGI cutscenes in between levels. The campaign is actually not much fun and the only 
 good things are that the story is actually quite interesting, you can unlock all the characters 
 playing through campaign, and you can play it coop. There are the other modes too such as the Brawl 
 mode which is just playing with the COM or with your friends. There is also the Classic mode which 
 puts you up against 12 stages and each one you have to fight a character or characters or break 
 targets. The Online mode works great and is a lot of fun but sometimes the game lags and there 
 is no voice chat. 
  
  
  
  Graphics 8/10: The graphics of Brawl is actually quite good and better than most Wii games but 
 still you think that for a game as good as Brawl they could have add more texture for the enviourments.
 
  
  
  
  Sound 9.8/10: The sound in Brawl is amazing. You can unlock different music tracks in the game 
 and they are just amazing. One of the best parts of Brawl is the music and sound.
  
  
  
  Overall this game is extremely amazing and if you own a Wii and not this game then go get it 
 now. It is worth every penny that you spend on it and you will play it for a long time to come.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 17, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  Good: - excellent, fun gameplay - great new single player mode that you will actually want to play 
 - awesome new characters and stages - best game soundtrack of all time - multiplayer is still a 
 blast - almost everything can be done with 2 player co-op - great graphics, likely the best seen 
 on Wii thus far - LOADED with tons of extra stuff - 
  
  Bad: - online play is really bad - stage editor is ok, but not something you'll find yourself using 
 much - 
  
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl has finally arrived, after years of waiting and a couple unfortunate delays. 
 Now that Brawl is here, was it worth all the waiting and all the hype? The answer is, thankfully, 
 yes. Brawl goes above and beyond gaming standards and delivers a package fully loaded with, well... 
 everything! I guess I'll just cut the introduction short here and start my long review. 
  
  I guess I'll start by telling you about the main aspect of Brawl: Brawl mode (not to sound redundant 
 or anything) . In Brawl mode, you fight 1-3 other people playing as one of 35 characters on one 
 of 41 awesome stages and fight a timed, stock, or (and I still don't know why this exists) coin 
 battle. The core gameplay of Smash Bros. has stuck, but the game still feels a little different 
 from Melee as you first play it. The gameplay, overall, is pretty much flawless. I wouldn't really 
 change anything, and to those of you who say it's merely 'Melee 2,' it's definitely much more, 
 so stop being so negative. While the gameplay feels so familiar (yet still a little new) , there's 
 so much extra stuff here that make this game worth more than the mere $50 you paid to get the game. 
 
  
  Smash Bros. is not not only great in the aspect of multiplayer, but in the single player front 
 as well. The new adventure mode, called 'The Subspace Emissary,' is huge with tons of great sidescrolling 
 levels to play through. The story in this adventure is easily recognized despite the fact that 
 there is absolutely no dialogue. A guy called the Ancient Minister appears to want to transfer 
 the world of our Nintendo heroes to a realm of Subspace, thereby pretty much destroying it. You 
 play as each of the 35 characters from the roster at some point in the game, and unlock the ones 
 that aren't available yet in Brawl mode as you go. This was a nice way to be able to get all the 
 characters and allowed you to not necessarily have to play Classic mode 35 times to get the last 
 character. 
  
  The single player also still has Classic mode, where you fight a bunch of Brawls and finish by 
 defeating Master Hand. There is also a great event mode with 62 levels, 41 on single player and 
 21 on co-op. The multi-man brawls are pretty similar to Melee but you fight a different type of 
 team than the wire frames. All-Star mode has returned, but like Classic, you may not want to play 
 through it 35 times. All-Star can also be done on 2 player co-op along with pretty much everything 
 else in the single player mode, including the Subspace Emissary. 
  
  The new additions to Brawl are totally awesome. The new stages are much better than Melee's stages, 
 with breathtaking backgrounds and great creativity all around. The only stage with a poor background 
 is the Pikmin stage, which for some reason has one blurry still image in the background. Otherwise 
 the stages are mostly all awesome, and there are even some destructible walls and objects on some! 
 The character roster is huge and really cool, with returning icons such as Mario, Link, and Samus, 
 while tons of new characters make their way into the series such as Ike (my favorite) , Meta Knight, 
 and Olimar. It's great fun to play as all the characters just to try something different all over 
 again, I often will select a different character other than my best, something I rarely did in 
 Melee. 
  
  While the multiplayer retains its excellence, the new online play wasn't able to hold much of anything 
 we should expect. This is truly the game's only big flaw, and is the only reason I didn't give 
 it a 10. The 'With Anyone' play is no good at all. You're randomly pitted against 1-3 other people, 
 you can't see their names at all, there's a bunch of painfully annoying lag, and you just don't 
 give a darn about winning or losing because for one you don't even know who the heck you're playing 
 and two it doesn't keep any kind of record! I pretty much summed up my hate for the online play 
 there and I have hardly even played the game online, I've already played Mario Kart Wii online 
 at least five times as much as this, and I've owned the game for a whole month less! The 'With 
 Friends' part of the online is actually ok, but again the lag kills all the fun even if you're 
 playing with just one other person who barely lives two miles away from you and has a decent connection 
 quality. 
  
  After the major negative note, I need to go back to all the great stuff. Brawl is jam-packed with, 
 well... stuff! First of all, there are TONS of trophies and stickers to collect and will take you 
 a painfully long time to get them all. There is also a new Kirby Air Ride-style 'mission' board 
 (only it looks nicer) which tells you how to unlock new stuff such as trophies, stickers, stages, 
 and CDs (explained later) . There are SO many objectives on that board that you just may never complete 
 them all, even a few years from now. There is also a coin launcher where you shoot the coins you 
 collect while playing the game at trophies and enemies on a pinball-style table to unlock even 
 more stuff. Not to mention the extra fun you can have with the trophies and stickers! You can put 
 stickers on a scrapbook-type paper in-game and take a snapshot of it or even make a cool diarama 
 with your trophies! The last feature I'll talk about is the stage editor. Building your own stage 
 is pretty cool, but it's not all it could have been and the stages are no fun to actually play 
 on at all. 
  
  The music in Brawl is easily the best I have ever heard of in a video game, and it only leaves 
 me asking why Nintendo hasn't released a soundtrack yet. There are SO many music tracks in the 
 game, many of which are unlocked by collecting CDs during battle or by clearing certain objectives. 
 You can also pick which music you want to have higher or lower chances of playing when you go to 
 fight on a certain stage, which is an awesome feature and allows you to hear your favorite music 
 on any given stage however frequently you want! The only problem with this is that there is so 
 much great music that you often will get stuck figuring out which tracks you want to hear more! 
 That said, Brawl has the best game soundtrack ever, no doubt about it. 
  
  The last aspect of Brawl I'll talk about is the controls. The controls in Brawl are easily the 
 best I've ever seen, with four fully-customizable control modes. You can use a GameCube controller 
 (definitely the preferred controller) , sideways remote (ugh) , remote/nunchuk, or Classic controller. 
 If you don't like certain button assignments, you can go ahead and change them. Want to attack 
 with Z? Want to jump with R? Want to shield with B? I don't know why you would ever actually want 
 to, but you can! This makes the controls truly flawless, no denying that. 
  
  It took awhile to say it, but Super Smash Bros. Brawl is the best game ever made. It may not have 
 quite as high a score from me as, say, Mario Galaxy or Zelda: Twilight Princess (I give both games 
 10s) , but the game is so loaded with stuff to do that it'll last for years and doesn't get old. 
 The online play was a drag, but that hasn't affected the game as a whole. Brawl is still amazing, 
 huge, and worth the wait! 
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 10
  Value: 10
  (this does not necessarily affect the overall score)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicboom713
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  Over the past two years, Nintendo has managed to hold its own in the console wars by relying on 
 home-grown titles and sequels to already popular games. With the success of games like "Wii Sports," 
 "WarioWare: Smooth Moves," "Paper Mario" and "Big Brain Academy," it seems that Nintendo will live 
 and die on the success of their most cherished franchises. With that being said, a game like "Super 
 Smash Bros.: Brawl" was destined to become a million-seller months before it came out. Nevertheless, 
 the sequel is not only one of the best games currently available on the system, it's easily the 
 best game in the series.
  
  Sporting some of the best graphics on the system to date, "Super Smash Bros.: Brawl" is a feast 
 for the eyes. Never before has a game in this series looked so solid. From the colorful backgrounds 
 to the hair and body effects of the characters, everything looks fantastic and will be a driving 
 force in why you become addicted from the first time you turn the game on.
  
  Featuring over 35 characters and online support, "Brawl" is the deepest and most enjoyable title 
 on the Wii. With classic characters like Mario, Kirby, Pikachu and Link, in addition to Solid Snake 
 and Sonic the Hedgehog being added to an already beefy lineup, Brawl has a character that everyone 
 will enjoy playing. Considering how different the characters are from one another, avid fans of 
 the series will have an absolute blast playing through the game with each of them. 
  
  However, if there was a reason to play "Brawl," it would to strut your stuff online. Having the 
 opportunity to play with a classic controller, GameCube controller or the Wiimote, every player 
 under the sun has a reason to give this game a shot. While it doesn't feature voice chat or any 
 of the other little nifty options available on other current generation platforms, it does offer 
 a more than sturdy gameplay experience that is always full of opponents and virtually lag free. 
 When Nintendo finally mustered the courage to foray into online gaming, it's obvious that this 
 was the kind of experience they were shooting for: One that is free, fast-paced fun for everyone 
 involved.
  
  Also new in this addition to the series is the ability to take pictures and video of your in-game 
 exploits and send them to people on your friends list. This option gives the game even more replayability 
 and gives you another thing to do in an already deep game. Even after playing
  through the game and unlocking everything, you may find yourself taking pictures of your characters 
 and sending them to your friends.
  
  When the sum of its parts is added up, "Brawl" has it all: Amazing graphics, a bevy of gameplay 
 options and every control option you could think of, making it a must own game on the Wii and a 
 reason why sequels may not be so bad after all.
  
  -Patrick Hickey Jr. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catboxcandy
Rating: 9
Date: May 16, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  So it's been about 10 years since the first Super Smash Bros. came out and people have become hooked. 
 I personally have somehow missed the whole 'Melee age' so many of the things old to others, were 
 new too me. So the graphics... they are some of the best on the wii, they have all the old and 
 new music from all the old games you loved so much, the combat is as awesome as always with some 
 new items to spruce it up, and some of the new levels are, such as wario ware, pictochat, mushroomy 
 kingdom, and the old donkey kong level, just to name a few. But most of all are the new characters! 
 There are 35 characters!! Lucario, Pit, Snake, Meta Knight, and Toon Link are just a few, and every 
 character has an awesome final smash doing more damage than a normal attack. So this game overall 
 an awesome addition to the Super Smash Bros. franchise, though, it's beginning to get a wee bit 
 old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyperknight9
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 16, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  SSBB is easily the best game for the wii and could even be game of the year. this game astonished 
 me when it came out and no matter how much I play it I always end up playing it again. I watched 
 the sites and checked for updates three times a day before it came out and it still beat everything 
 I was expecting. but there are a few minor problems, Id say the biggest problem with the game is 
 the console its on because it cant quite get online play right although you can get a good connection 
 every once in a while, and its still fun even with attacks hitting about half a second late but 
 if you dont care about the online play its almost perfect except for the stage creator I must admit 
 stage creator is probably the best addition to ssb I dont even play the original levels any more 
 but the problem with it is that there is NOT enough things for it, if there were more objects and 
 details for it the game would almost be the best which leads me to the last problem The story mode 
 the subspace emirssary is somtimes fun but is usually pretty boring and there is really no need 
 for it . If you have a wii and some money I strongly suggest buying this game the multiplayer is 
 amazing just make sure you have some friends before you buy it and overall everything else is awsome 
 including the character roster every thing to do with the characters is perfect there all well 
 balanced they all are fun to play. The only thing else I could want would to be able to create 
 my own character for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaulus7
Rating: 10
Date: May 16, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  An awesome game. You get to everything in the game exactly like the old version except you have 
 to use the nunchuck which makes everything much harder. An Addictive-Multi-Player game that should 
 have been rated perfect by the editors.. You get tons of characters including Mario, Luigi, Yoshi, 
 Peach, Donkey Kong, Falco, Pikachu, Link, etc. You also get plenty of arenas including Green Hill 
 Zone, and others. The Graphics for this game is awesome!!! I mean most Wii games' graphics aren't 
 that good. But Super Smash Bros Brawl's graphics are a ten out of ten, no doubt. The graphics make 
 you feel like that whatever is happening in front of you is real, period. The story line is also 
 a perfect ten out of ten. Every time you play it, it's a different story, which is another reason 
 why it is such an awesome game. Highly Recommended to Wii owners, Super Smash Bros Brawl is a perfect 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arb92
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 15, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  The good parts of this game is the graphics, the graphics is very improved and everything is clear-cut-sharp. 
 The character roster is just amazing, of course, you have all the classics like Mario, Link, Yoshi, 
 Donkey Kong and so on, now, you have characters like R. O. B, Toon Link, Deoxys, Sonic and so on. 
 The fighting style works out great, the fighting on the older smash bros is just the same as in 
 this game as you would expect. There are 4 different control schemes that you can use, you can 
 use the following: wii-mote, wii-mote/nunchuck, classic controller, and gamecube controller. The 
 "create a stage" option is a really great option, you do what the title says, create your own stage, 
 you can you many different things to make the most miserable stage ever to be known. There are 
 many unlockables like of course, all the secret characters, all kinds of trophies, stages, stickers 
 and many more. The stages are really nice, most of them are either good, or awesome stages, many 
 different gimmicks in most of these new stages and to get the old Super Smash Bros melee feeling, 
 there are older stages that you can go to which is really nice. The online works just fine, depending 
 on where you live is how good of Latency you have, the worse the latency, the more lag you have, 
 the better the latency, the less lag you will have, that will very on where you live. 
  
  The bad parts of this game is the Subspace Emissary, this is really long, but boring, its like 
 a platformer that has absolutely no fun to it whatsoever, there are some action, but not enough 
 to keep you playing the whole thing through. You can unlock ALL the characters by completing the 
 Subspace Emissary, which is no fun also, some people want to have a challenge unlocking characters, 
 but this game doesn't really have it, unless you unlock them by not doing the Supspace Emissary, 
 but that is a different story.
  
  Overall, to me, this one is the best in the series as of now, probably the best game on the Wii 
 without a doubt to most people. The character roster is great, the graphics are great, this whole 
 game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_rock_74
Rating: 10
Date: May 14, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  The game every wii owner has wanted since the system first launched, Super Smash Bros Brawl is 
 finally in our grasps. Not only is it the best game in the series, not only is it the best game 
 on the wii, nintnedo has just made the greatest game of all time. This time around the Super Smash 
 series has a plot in "The Subspace Emissary," but I'm not gonna spoil any of it because a lot of 
 this stuff you'll wanna see for yourself. Lets get to gameplay, first off you've got 4 control 
 schemes (for purposes of this review I'll be talking about the Wii remote and nunchuck control 
 scheme) . Well you've got the A button which is your basic attack, the B button on the back of the 
 remote is for you special moves (move the joystick for different attacks) , 1 and 2 do your taunts 
 (hold down both for a third taunt) , the C button on the nunchuck is your jump, the Z button on 
 the nunchuck is your sheild, hold down A and B to grab. Now once you break a smashball hold down 
 the B-Button to unleash your most powerful attack, The Final Smash. The graphics in brawl are incredible, 
 while there not as good as Mario Galaxy, it's definately one of the Wii's best looking games. This 
 has got to be the best sounding game ever made the music is really fantastic and most of the voicework 
 is extremely well done (except for the fact that Jason Griffith is still voicing Sonic, I hate 
 Jason so much!!!!!!!) This game has more replay value than any videogame before meaning you'll 
 have hours of fun for years to come. With 35 characters, the best music in a game ever, and an 
 interesting plot who can argue that Super Smash Bros Brawl is the greatest game of all time??? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MisterSinister6
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 14, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is one of the of the most fun games I've ever played. It is so addictive! 
 I love achieving things and this game is FULL of achievments. From unlockable trophies, stickers, stages, and 
 plenty of unlockable characters. Online play is pretty fun too. It takes a while to find players 
 to battle but its worth it. Another thing is that the game will skip depending on the people you 
 play by distance. Smash has plenty of modes to keep you busy. Classic mode is fun but adventure 
 mode has the most unlockables. You should come to love the new and massive character line-up. Besides 
 characters one of the best new features added too the series that I like the most is the Final 
 Smash. Each character has a very unique Final Smash. 
  
  The control scheme is fairly simple. The learning curve is about ten minutes. There's plenty to 
 love about Smash and little to hate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acebrawler
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  There is no reason why anyone should not get this game, the multiplayer is awesome, great adventure 
 mode, and online play is just sweet! You must be crazy not to get this game because its the best 
 of the Super Smash Bros. Series. This game is in my top 3 and I think it should get a 10 because 
 of all the hard work, effort and just how awesome this game is. Adventure mode is my one of my 
 favourite parts of ssbb even though I've beaten it, there's still many secrets to be found. Online 
 is fun with friends and with anyone and lag is rare. The difficulty is just right for anyone that 
 wants a challenge and anyone that just wants it easy. There is so much more I could say about this 
 game, but trying to fit it all on here would be a nightmare. You'll have to get the game and find 
 out for yourself. So, that concludes my review. (my favourite character is Ike) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkthemaniac
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 13, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Ahh, Super Smash Brothers. I remeber first popping this legendary cartridge into my Nintendo 64, 
 and was instantly wide-eyed at the sheer fun it brought (as well as confused. I kept thinking "Who 
 the hell is this Samus dude?") . I missed out on Melee, so Brawl was a huge step up for me. Is it 
 good? Yes. It's the same that you've come to expect, but there's one thing that it does that elevates 
 it over logical progression. I'll get to that later.
  
  The basic combat is fairly simple: do crazy attacks until you knock the enemy off the screen. It's 
 always been outrageously simple, yet addictive all the same. The basic gameplay seems faster and 
 is really mixed up with the Smash Balls. These are floating orbs that you can break open to get 
 the ability to use a final smash. What is a final smash? Well Samus makes a giant beam cannon that 
 covers the screen. Ganondorf transforms into Ganon. Basically, they're supermoves that cannout 
 be countered so easily. These make the game exciting. There are times when they appear too much, 
 though, which can get annoying. Thankfully, it's not too annoying.
  
  The lineup this time around features 35 characters from famous games and series. Some notable newcomers 
 are Ike (Fire Emblem) , Wario (Warioware, Mario sports) , and others. The big swing to this lineup 
 is the inclusion of third party characters: Snake and Sonic. Both are great fits for the game and 
 are fun to play as. For the most part, the lineup is pretty balanced with some hiccups, such as 
 Ike's smash attacks being a little too strong. For your basic brawls, there are more stages than 
 ever in this run, with around 30 stages. Some of them are gimmicky and annoying, and you will find 
 yourself not playing them as much. Others, however, are great. The Pictochat level may be one of 
 the best levels yet for the series.
  
  If you don't want to play a premade stage, you can use the stage editor to create your own. This 
 can be fun as well as rewarding, and leaves for many possibilities to run with. If you really want 
 to, you can even recreate old N64 stages in this mode, if you so desire.
  
  The best part is, I've only covered a small portion of the game. That's what I was talking about 
 in the beginning. This game slaps you in the face with so much content it's unbelievable. In order 
 to save space, I'll cruise through the other features.
  
  Subspace Emmisary, a side scrolling action fan service, can be fun for a little while but ultimately 
 leaves you unsatisfied.
  The "achievements" that unlock songs, trophies and such are fun to get and keep you pushing for 
 high scores.
  The coin launcher minigame is fun as hell. Give it a shot.
  Classic mode is intact, but may leave some wanting for a more customized classic experience for 
 each character.
  All Star mode can also be fun. You get this after unlocking all characters.
  
  Sure, alot of 
 this game is from the other games, but there's so much in it that it leaves you asking yourself 
 why you care. It is how it should be. An arcade fighter with all your favorite Nintendo (and beyond) 
 characters. In this, it shines brightly. This is a game to play with friends, as well. If you have 
 people to play with, it's worth much more than the asking price. If not, it's still a good buy. 
 Either way, you're getting one of the best games Nintendo has yet produced. It's that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bruuin
Rating: 8
Date: May 13, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  There are those that will swear by this game, just as they did for Melee before it. There are also 
 gamers that will enjoy the trip down memory lane and not much else. Further still, some will find 
 that Brawl's gameplay is so basic and uninspiring that they can't be bothered with the title at 
 all. If nothing else, Super Smash Bros Brawl is a game that will inspire passionate debate among 
 gamers.
  
  The truth of the matter is that none of these opinions could be considered wrong or right. For 
 the same reasons that people disagree with professional reviews or analysis of any kind, gamers 
 have their own personal tastes and appeals. Brawl does a good job of reaching out and trying to 
 meet many of them but may have stretched itself a bit thin and lost focus by trying to be too many 
 things at once.
  
  Where there can be no debate however is in regards to the quality of the disc. This may be the 
 best looking Wii title that we've seen to date. Definitely up there with Mario Galaxy to be sure. 
 The camera zooms in and out of the action with never so much as a hitch in the framerate. The animation 
 is smooth and tight and the characters look as classic Nintendo characters should. Visually, this 
 game has everything right going for it. Nothing but high production values to be found.
  
  So what about the gameplay? Well, Brawl plays as intended. Whether that's a good thing or a bad 
 thing is enitirely subjective, but the developers set out to create a system, and that system works. 
 Very few buttons are needed to play this game and the character moves all make sense, even if they 
 are a bit on the basic side. Therein lies Brawls biggest strength and weakness. The game is super 
 easy to pick up and learn. A couple of minutes and you can have some of the main characters well 
 figured out and while there is some underlying strategy to each of them, the quick learning curve 
 does detract from this 2D Fighter style of gameplay.
  
  At the same time though, it makes it great for multiplayer at any sort of gathering, where even 
 non-gamers will find something familiar in the game. In that sense, the basic controls are appealing 
 and allow Brawl to truly shine. It should be noted that a bunch of friends sitting around in the 
 living room is the way to play this one. Nintendo's ridiculously censored online play takes away 
 from the bragging rights that are enjoyed in the company of friends. Where I can understand the 
 logic of putting a cap on the freedom offered with the online play, I do feel that it detracts 
 from the spirit of what this game is trying to be.
  
  Then there's the whole single player aspect of the game. The main single player option basically 
 takes the game mechanics of the brawling segments and turns it into a sort of pseudo platformer 
 that takes you on a journey to explore all the characters that are available in the game. It's 
 fun, but there's nothing that sucks you in from a gameplay standpoint. It's here where the Nintendo 
 nostalgia factor kicks in. Levels mimic old Nintendo franchise platformers (like Mario, Zelda, 
 Donkey Kong, etc....) complete with vintage sound effects and weapons and the like. There's nothing 
 particularly engrossing about it, but the trip down Nintendo's memory lane (and subsequent 3rd 
 party efforts) is worth taking at least once. The only issue is that this sort of game play mechanic 
 as a side scrolling platformer is extremely dated.
  
  In the end however, the brawling is where it's at. This has always been the case with Super Smash 
 Bros. and this is where it gets tricky. Fighting games don't typically appeal to casual gamers. 
 Cooperative play is usually the best way to get them hooked. With that in mind, nintendo has slowed 
 the pace of the game and kepts the basic control setup with casual gamers in mind. On the surface 
 these decisions would seem to alienate both ends of the spectrum by trying to be too much at once.
 
  
  What can't be disputed however, is the fact that this offering exudes nothing but quality. The 
 production values are top notch from top to bottom and when all is said and done this is a great 
 game to have at parties when the crowd has had their fill of Wii Sports. Nintendo obviously had 
 a plan and this game is no doubt how they intended for it to be executed. In the end, Brawl suffers 
 from a bit of an identity crisis. It's not for everybody and it may have you wondering who exactly 
 this game was made for.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trina250
Rating: 9
Date: May 12, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Once again Nintendo has provided a great contribution to the Super Smash Bros series. This game 
 proves to be even better than its previous game.
  
  Sound- 
  The music in this game is remarkable! Nintendo has added plenty of soundtracks to enjoy in each 
 stage and you can gain more soundtracks by simply Brawling or going to the adventure mode (Subspace 
 Emissary) . Another great addition they have done is make remixes of music from older games. You 
 can even make your favorite soundtracks appear more often then others! So basically the sound in 
 this game is utterly flawless. 
  
  Graphics-
  Although it may not have better graphics compared to the Xbox360 the graphics in the game are pretty 
 amazing for a Wii game. I must also mention that the cut scenes are also excellent now that they 
 have added a storyline of some kind to this game.
  
  Game-play-
  First of all there are plenty of stages to brawl on and with the Stage Builder you can now make 
 your own levels to brawl on; although it is somewhat a disappointment that you cannot have more 
 pieces to design your level more.
  
  There is also a new side scrolling adventure mode which can take hours to beat and gives you some 
 entertaining cut scenes.
  
  35 characters to get in this game! Although I was a bit disappointed with the fact that they cut 
 some characters out and that they didn't add even more characters to get.
  
  Also you can now go on the Internet to brawl with friends or just brawl with random people. Brawling 
 with friends gives you the chance to not only fight but also work together on the Home-run Contest 
 and Multi-Man battle. When brawling against random people you can either do a Team Battle or a 
 Free-for-all battle. Sometimes when you brawl against random people you will find your game beginning 
 to lag a little or maybe even a lot. Yet another disappointment for this game, but other details 
 in the game make up for it.
  
  Overall-
  It's not easy to say every detail in the game so you should just go out and buy it if you don't 
 already have it! Super Smash Bros Brawl is a must buy game! One of the best titles for the Wii 
 and will continue to be amazing for years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Video_Game_King
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 12, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing video games for almost as long as I can remember. As of this review, I've beaten 
 534 and played many more. Perhaps one of my favorite games so far is Super Smash Bros. Brawl. OK, 
 it's only in the top 3, but that's still quite a statement. But why do I love this game so much? 
 Brawl attempts something different when it comes to fighters. Rather than depleting your sole opponent's 
 life bar with arcane button and joystick sequences which fire fireballs from your hands , you bash 
 your opponent senseless over large and intricate stages that can twist, turn and threaten you with 
 instant death, until their percentage is high enough for you to knock them off the stage and into 
 oblivion. 
  
  The characters in this game are incredibly well balanced, well varied and quite easy to use. Gone 
 are the arcane button/joystick sequences I just referenced, as all characters perform their moves 
 in the same manner. For example, the B-up moves of most characters act as a third jump to keep 
 you from falling to your death. To compensate for the balanced character roster, the items are 
 far more chaotic than in the previous iteration, Melee. Almost all can quickly turn the tide of 
 battle, like the force of a falling Warp Star or the devastating power of each character's Final 
 Smash. Speaking of that, Final Smashes are perhaps the biggest change to the fighting system, as 
 the focus of all players in a match will quickly change to the frantic beating of the orb until 
 it allows you to unleash fiery death on your foes.
  
  You've probably caught onto the fact that the game is best played with multiple people at this 
 point. There's an ungodly amount of modes to play, from team battles and custom matches to co-op 
 affairs and player made stages. But worry not, lonesome readers among you, as Brawl allows you 
 to play online. Yes, using the Wii Wi-Fi, you can play against people all across the globe (except 
 Europe and Australia, where it has yet to arrive) . Lag, however, can be a problem. Some matches 
 can be silky smooth, others being so rough as to make the play think it's been tossed down a gravel 
 road only to later fall down a cliff. Overall, though, online is still pretty good and a good alternative 
 for those who can't organize a four player killfest.
  
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl also offers quite the single player experience, too. You have events, Classic 
 mode, Subspace, All Stars, and a plethora of other modes that can also be played with a buddy. 
 The only one that especially stands out amongst the crowd is the Subspace Emissary, the game's 
 story/campaign mode. The basic story is that an Ancient Minister is blowing up areas into nothingness, 
 and characters from all over the Nintendo universe (and even beyond) have some role to play in 
 it. What I absolutely love about this campaign is that the tale is told without a single word uttered 
 throughout the entire duration. That takes an incredible amount of talent, whether it's the emotion 
 portrayed when all the ROBs are ordered to suicide bomb the heroes or the humor of Princess Peach 
 obliviously going out for a Sunday stroll while being fired upon by enemy ships (and then inviting 
 others for tea) . Subspace also wins me over with classic platforming levels influenced by some 
 of the best of the genre, like Donkey Kong Country and Kirby's Dreamland (not surprising, considering 
 the same person designed the two games) . 
  
  Classic and All Star seem to have suffered to a degree, though. The randomized order of each has 
 been replaced with a pseudo-random one that can be predicted and planned out, which can remove 
 a bit of the difficulty of a system that never turns out anything near the same result twice. Target 
 practice is no longer custom per character, but rather by difficulty level and certain characters 
 (essentially the villains) aren't well suited to these trials.
  
  You may think that's quite a lot to say about how a game is played, but that's just a testament 
 to how large the game is. Perhaps the only thing within it to rival the high amount of ways to 
 play games is the soundtrack. Brawl contains over 300 songs from Nintendo to Metal Gear to Sonic 
 the Hedgehog, and you're bound to find something you'll fall in love with, like the "ripped right 
 from your Sega Genesis" Sonic stage themes to the instrumental version of With Mila's Divine Protection 
 (from the Japan only Fire Emblem Gaiden) . Truth be told, the game contains a few duds (essentially 
 anything with lyrics) , but the game has the courtesy of allowing you to prevent those failures 
 from ever appearing if you don't want them to. Ever.
  
  Finally come the graphics, which definitely show signs of improvement over Melee (which itself 
 looked fairly good) . The characters show more detail than the somewhat flat models of its predecessor, 
 and the game is generally appealing to look at. Quite a lot can be happening on screen at once, 
 but it doesn't slow down for anything (except during online matches, but that's a completely separate 
 issue I addressed earlier) .
  
  As you've probably guessed by now, I love Super Smash Bros. Brawl. It is easy to pick up and get 
 into but hard to master, the music is a godsend to gamers who loved their older systems and the 
 myriad of modes and unlockables still has me playing it long after its release. This is a game 
 every Wii owner should have in their library, if they don't already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1313deadmandrve
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 12, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  I never owned a Super Smash in my life. I only played it at my friend's house. And every time I 
 played it, I thought, "Wow, this game rocks, but I wouldn't buy it." Then I heard about Brawls 
 relesse in December. I could reserve either Brawl or Super Mario Galixies, thinking Galixies would 
 suck, (it dosen't) , I reserved Smash, and was proud of my chose. This review is lat because there 
 was so much to do.
  Gameplay: Fun 4 player fights, where you try to knock your opponents off the screen. Or a survoir 
 battle with lives, or a coin battle, or stanima. There was also a super long single player mode, 
 which was fun, but Super Smash isn't supposed to be a side screolling platformer. It was allright. 
 There's also special battles where you do certain thins, lioke make everyone into an egg (Yoshi) , 
 or perform a certain move etc. There's also Wi-fi, which is fun, but sometimes the frame rate slows 
 down, and you can only do 2 min. ko battles, and 2 min. ko team battles. And everyone is better 
 than me. There's also stage builder, but it dosen't have a huge diversity in parts. You also get 
 trials for games on the virtual consel, like Mario Bros., F-Zero, andso forth, but there stupidly 
 timed, like 40 seconds for F-Zero, or 1 min for Ice Climbers, or something. There's also trophies, 
 stickers, and awards, and rewards to unlock. There's also a diverse amount of charicters. Ike is 
 the best, no questions asked.
  Graphics: Everything looks a bit cartoony, but everything looks good. Heck (I would swear, but I 
 can't) you can even see the stiches on Mario's overalls, (I think they did that on purpose though) , 
 Donkey kong has individual hairs on his head, and Bowser has scales. The stages also look clean.
 
  Sound/music: The sound is pretty good. Mario's tradmark jump, Wolf's howl at the moon, it all sounds 
 pretty clear, except whenyou mix explosins, with punches, and people screaming because thier flying, 
 it gets a little hactic. The music score is apsolutly amazing. There's traks from Metal ger, Kirby, 
 Mario, Link, even flatzone. My favorates, (use these for stage builder) Mute City (F-Zero) , Luigi's 
 Mansion theme, and Gourmat race (Kirby, spelling errors)
  Controls: There are 4 differnt schemes, Wii remote sideways, Wii remote = nunchuck, Classic controller, 
 and Game cube
  Wii remote sideways: It's alright, make it a last resort
  Nunchuck=remote: I perfer the Wii remot only actully
  Classic controller: Not bad, but the anolog 
 sticks feel funny
  Gamecube controller: Like Melee, which is good. The est of them all
  
  Conclusion: Get this game. Now. What are you waiting for?!?! Sheeeesh.
  
  
  Lots of words... my 
 hand hurts 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryBomber5
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  Super smash bros. Brawl is without a doubt a must have wii game. This is not your ordinary fighting 
 game. This is hands-down the best fighter game ever. 
  
  Gameplay 10/10 - The gameplay of the game is just perfect. It's the same as melee, and it's very 
 easy to get use to. You will most likely use the gamecube controller, but there are other ways 
 to play it. You may think the gameplay is slower than melee, but to be honest, I like it better. 
 You can perform air attacks a lot easier, and even though air dodge is gone, it's not the end of 
 world. The gameplay is perfect.
  
  Sound 10/10 - The sound is one of the best features of the game. There are over 200 songs to unlock, 
 and they go from donkey kong country to zelda twilight princess! The sound yet alone is amazing. 
 I love the final destination theme, and there are just so many different songs, you will never 
 get bored of the music! The sound effects of the characters are also good. The sound is just perfect.
 
  
  Graphics 9.8/10 - The graphics are very good for this game, esspessially for the wii. The characters 
 look a lot better than melee, and some of the stages look really awesome! The effects are brilliant. 
 The graphics are amazing. 
  
  WI-FI 8.0/10 - I was really looking forward to wi-fi on brawl. I thought it was going to be the 
 best, but I was very disappointed. It lags almost every match, and there isn't any rank system. 
 However, when you play with your friends, there is hardly any lag, and you can customize your matches 
 however you want. The wi-fi mode isn't necessarily bad, it's great. But I was disappointed because 
 it wasn't what I expected. 
  
  Overall 10/10 - Super smash bros. Brawl is a perfect game, and it is a must have. With tons of 
 trophies and stickers to unlock. With over 200 different songs, over 40 stages, stage builder, 
 and much much more. You will never get bored of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legendofmario5
Rating: 10
Date: May 11, 2008 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Say what you want about minigame collections on the Wii and their poor, and uninnovative but Nintendo 
 has been kind to us about working on their best selling franchises. One is SSBB.
  
  SSBB isn't your father's Smash brothers. This time, it has a full fledged Adventure mode, Subspace 
 Emissary. Although this kinda feels like Kingdom Hearts, it''s a good way to unlock all of the 
 characters for those who don't want to play thousands of VS. matches to play as Falco.
  
  You also have some new modes along with adventure mode. You have your typical classic, training, 
 stadium, target smash, all star and event matches. You also have the new multiman brawl and boss 
 battles. The most important one is online mode. This takes advantage of the Wii's Wifi support, 
 and the first game to have online support. These are the new modes in brawl.
  
  The foundation has stayed the same. Two to four Nintendo characters beat the living crap out of 
 each other, knocking an opponent off the stage will net them a point. Most points or last man standing 
 wins. The good thing is that you don't need the wii's controller to play brawl. So veterans will 
 stick with the Gamecube controller. (I did)
  
  Visually, SSBB has received some noticable upgrades compared to melee. Although is doesn't look 
 as good as Super Mario Galaxy, you can still make out the visuals.
  
  Overall, SSBB is the must have gem for the Wii. If you're craving for more smash or want to have 
 a good time, all of those years of waiting was worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kryu88
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 11, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  It doesn't go without saying that Smash Bros. Brawl was one of the most anticipated titles for 
 the Wii here as of recent. With the promise of online support, create your own stage feature, and 
 even more characters it seemed like Brawl would be the perfect fighting game for any Wii owner. 
 Does it live up to its hype? Well... yes and no. It is a game, like the others in the series, that 
 is fun to play with friends or people online. But some of the other aspects of the game can make 
 it annoying to play at times or even make the game *gasp* not fun?!
  
  This time around Super Smash Bros. is holding a new type of story mode over the traditional Classic 
 Mode that has been in the other Smash Bros. games. This little, but not really, story mode is called 
 Sub Space Emissary and good gosh this can be such an annoying "story" to play through. The story 
 here is that all the Nintendo idols are having... what else, friendly fight matches until some giant 
 space shipe thing drops off a couple R. O. B robots and they unleash this... giant black hole thing. 
 Besides the fact the whole story is meant to be nothing other than fanservice for the Nintendo 
 gaming populous, this story makes no sense whatsoever. It feels as though you are given a new toy 
 to play with but with no instruction as to how to have fun with it, so you just sit there and take 
 whatever you get. That is what SSE feels like for most of the ride it takes you on.
  
  As for the actual progression of the Emissary mode, it's basically a 2D sidescrolling platformer 
 that is very annoying at times. Basically you go through different Nintendo themed worlds (Legend 
 of Zelda, Fire Emblem, etc) and... keep going.. and going... and going. Till you get to the end of 
 course and you have to go back through all the stages you just went through again to fight bosses 
 in each area. All the backtracking SSE makes you do can get rather confusing and leaves you wondering 
 why you're bothering to do this. That's right, because it's the easiest way to unlock the other 
 half of the character roster. Overall, SSE is just an annoying backtracking estravaganza that feels 
 really pointless in the end. SSE is like one of those little amuesment stunts you'd do when you 
 were younger; like leaping off the top of a flight of stairs on a pillow, only to discover you'll 
 only feel pain and regret afterward despite it's initial thrill.
  
  The actual combat in Brawl hasn't really deviated too much from what the other two games did. The 
 one big different is the Final Smash move that each character can pull off after they get a Smash 
 Orb that appears in a stage like the other items in the game. Though, the Final Smashes range from 
 completely awesome instant KO moves, to "Why am I bothering to use this move?" Some depend on your 
 ability at being able to manipulate a high speed hedgehog who is going all super saiyan and running 
 into everything. While some mearly require you to press B and sit back and watch. They are pretty 
 to watch and are very satisfying once you manage to pull one off. There are also Assist Trophies 
 which unleash a random Nintendo character who was unfortunate enough to not get put into Brawl 
 as a playable character. They also range from, "Wootz! Awesome!" to "OMG get off the freaking screen!!" 
 By "OMG get off the freaking screen." I mean you Mr. Rosetti and you Nintendog!!! These two items 
 are the biggets additions to the gameplay in Brawl.
  
  When you want to go online all you have to do is get on Nintendo WiFi connect. You can either Brawl 
 with friends (providing you have their friend code of course) or "Brawl annonymously with people 
 you don't know!" as the game puts it. Either way online plays out pretty much like a normal Brawl 
 would if you were playing it with either COMPs or people sitting right next to you. Though you 
 can play other game modes with people online like Home Run Batting. Really online feels like regular 
 ole Super Smash Bros. just with people from all over the world and not just the ones sitting right 
 next to you.
  
  Unlocking most of the content is something that can also be quite annoying about Brawl. In order 
 to make cooler looking stages you have to unlock the stuff in obscure ways. In order to unlock 
 more characters you have to do the painful SSE. But the positive to unlocking these things is that 
 you really feel a sense of achievement afterward and you are eager to try out what you just got. 
 So the unlocking is something that you can either love or hate, but in the end after you unlock 
 something you'll want to try it out right away. Believe me, there is A LOT to unlock in Brawl. 
 You've basically got the OST for Brawl in the game, you just have to find all the disks to listen 
 to the songs. There are trophies to place in a fancy diarama or little stickers to show off to 
 your other Brawl buddies. 
  
  There are also numerous other gameplay modes to try out and grind into. Of course there are the 
 challenge modes which display a certain objective you must complete. As you beat the challenges 
 you unlock more and more and more challenges. The create your own stage mode is rather limiting 
 at first, there isn't too much to "create" with what you initially get. There is a mode where you 
 can fight specific bosses from the SSE, a surivial mode, an All-Star mode, and others that you 
 can poke around with. Really, Brawl brings so much food to the table you'll be stuffed and on the 
 verge of explosion once you're done with it all, which is one nice thing about the game; it delievers 
 in its quanitity of goods.
  
  The graphics for Brawl are very pretty. Each character is very well animated and brought to life 
 in the graphically crazy brawls. There are definitely enough particle effects going on in each 
 brawl to make you want to rub your eyes to re-evaluate where your characters is at. The Final Smashes 
 are very nice to look at and the environments, in their full moving 3-D glory, are amazing to battle 
 on. Well, the entire environment doesn't really move, it's more like the background is, but it's 
 still beautiful. Final Destination is a stage that never seems to get old to look at.
  
  Overall Brawl is a nice addition to the Wii's library of games. It holds what has made the franchise 
 so popular and adds some more things to it, though not all the things it adds necessarily makes 
 it better. For any Wii owner who wants to hear the good ole Kirby Fawlcun Pawwwnch, this is the 
 game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DDRpro239
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 11, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  SSBB is one of the best 3 d fighting games ever created by nintendo for the wii. Before i was going 
 to buy this game, i thought it would be the same thing as super smash bros melee. i was very wrong!
 
  
  it is a great multy player game , with great graphics, great controls, and an awsome adventure 
 mode. in the adventure mode, it is called subspace addministrary. this is a real adventure! you 
 go into a HUGE, maze. you unlock many characters in subspace. it took me a week to beat it. that 
 is a very long time. there is many dead ends which slowed me down, but i loved it.
  
  i beat brawl in about 1 -2 months. yes i have a life. lol. SSBB is the best fighting game ever for 
 wii. my favorite character is meta night. if yopu were going to buy this game. get it soon. when 
 you do buy it , use meta night! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colin4128
Rating: 10
Date: May 11, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  This is the best game I have ever played cause' it has better charters than SSBM, more stages than 
 any other in the series, better graphics
  (Especially with the HDMI Cable for the Wii) , and it has Wi-Fi. If you have 
  Wi-Fi you can never 
 get bored with this game, even if you unlock everything! You can play with friends or anybody, 
 observe maches, and bet on the person you will think will win. The game gets even better because 
 you can use more than one tipe of controler, this can make it a lot more confortable for veterans 
 of the series. Another great thing about this game is the abilty to saye replays and screenshots, 
 but it is flawed cause' Replays cant go over three minutes and when you view them there is no way 
 to edit them or skip to a certan part . Replays cant be transfered to a computer via SD Card like 
 screenshots, My favroite feature is Assist Trophys, its cool to see some of your non plable charters 
 make an apperance! Though, I wish they made Lynn (Fire Emblem GBA) a playable charter.
  
  Overall, the game is exelent with a few minor flaws, but thats expected in all games. If you own 
 a wii and dont have this game go and buy it now, its worth every penny!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: siLVURcross
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 10, 2008 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Alas, the wait is over, and though I am slow in reviewing this game, I'm sure people are expecting 
 it to be no less than any other review that gave the game perfect, wrong, I am here to explain 
 its greatness, and it's flaws.
  
  Brawl is the third entry in the Super Smash Bros. series. First starring the legendary N64 version, 
 which I'm sure many hip youngsters have never played. Secondly with the Melee series which significantly 
 improved on it's predecessor, it was almost perfect. But how can you improve on perfection?
  
  Well with Brawl, Nintendo decided to test that out by adding even MORE features, MORE characters 
 and making it one of the largest game in the series. 
  
  To start off, the characters. Many of the old characters from Melee return with added new ones 
 such as Solid Snake and Sonic. Though adding a whole new roster was neat with some shocking surprises 
 at how powerful some characters were (cough Yellow haired Ness, Lucas) . Nintendo decided that because 
 the Wii appealed to pretty much a wider audience, characters were now more balance, that meant 
 two things, one, it allows new players to get a feel for the game early on, two, it nerfs certain 
 old characters to a point of mere frustration. 
  
  Take Falco for example, in Melee, he was considered a powerhouse in being able to be fast, deliver 
 fast combos and on par with Fox (whom appeared as a favorite since the original Super Smash Bros.) 
 Now unfortunately, he's been weakened significantly, his reflector is changed, and his A attacks 
 have been changed as well. While this helps new players, it certainly does not help veteran players.
 
  
  However with such a large almost equally balanced roster, you're most likely be able to forgive 
 such things, as I have.
  
  New features include Wi-Fi, meaning you can battle your friends over the net thus reducing the 
 need to travel to their houses. However this then removes the ability to bathe in your basking 
 glory of winning or self wallowing pity of losing. Gloating is a feature they removed due to Wi-Fi. 
 You can also battle random people, but it's possible there's a bit of a lag which makes fighting 
 a bit tedious.
  
  Another feature is story mode, while interesting and at times funny, it was honestly long and incredibly 
 drawn out. You not only do the levels once, but twice, and I thought it was really useless. However 
 if you did it like I did it, you are pretty much able to unlock most if not all the characters 
 in a single day.
  
  New items include Smash Balls. Which allow characters to perform a devastating attack that pretty 
 much guarantees kills at times, or guarantees a nuisance. Each Final Smash is unique to each character, 
 with exceptions like Fox, Falco and Wolf whom all have the same Final Smash with small differences 
 between them. However, this can cause imbalance in the game, mainly depending on the map you're 
 in might not suit the character's Final Smash, as well Final Smash's like Marth's or Zelda's are 
 (in my opinion) really cheap in winning battles.
  
  Personally, Brawl just feels like Melee with slightly improved graphics, characters feeling a lot 
 more floaty, different maps and a whole new roster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SS4Link432
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2008 10:27 pm PT
Review:  For the people who love this game, I'm not surprised. The sheer look of this game makes you wanna 
 buy it. When i get a wii this game will be in my collection no doubt. The last game was just as 
 addictive. But what makes it even better is the fact that you can go Wi-Fi. The last games only 
 flaw was the fact that once you unlock everything theres nothng to do. Also the fact that there's 
 more than one type of controller you can use can make it a lot more comfortable for veterans of 
 the series. The one flaw in this game is the missing of two characters. Shadow the Hedgehog and 
 Mewtwo. The stages have very challenging effects. For one the stage known as spear pillar from 
 pokemon diamond and pearl, either Palkia Dialga or (for some reason) Cresselia come to attack and 
 mess you up. You may also create your own stages. For those who dont like this game go back to your 
 shooters and 360 (not that i dont like shooters or Xbox 360 it's just most people that dont like 
 it are crazy about those) . All & All this game is the best choice for a first and 50th wii game. 
 All over the world people are playing this game, so buy this game and go fight em'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: betsyfay
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 10, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  In 2001 Nintendo released Super smash bros melee on the nintendo gamecube. With 6 million copys 
 sold it went on to become the consoles best selling title. It had so much content and addictive 
 multiplayer crammed onto one disc that it kept gamers going back to it for years to come. Now Nintendo 
 has created the next installment of the series with even more modes and options. Is it the best 
 in the series? Find out by reading on.
  
  
  Gameplay: The game features the biggest roster in the sreies, going from 12 charectersd in the 
 original smash bros, to 26 in melee, and now there are 35 hear in Brawl, there are also 41 stages. 
 There are many returning charecters such as mario, Link, Samus Aran, Fox Mcloud, Peach, Zelda, 
 C. Falcon, Pikachu, and others. There are also many new charecters like Meta knight, ike, R. O. B., 
 Solid Snake, Sonic the hedghog, Wario, and others. Some of these gys are great like sonic who is 
 realy fast and sports his many old school moves, or ike who uses his big sword to deal multiple 
 damage at a time, or meta knight who has his quick sword swings. All of the clones have been luigified 
 and the ones that are similiar still play very differently. The charecters have a lot of variety 
 and the stages deliver as well. You have many new stages like the zelda ones, bridge of eldin and 
 the pirate ship, mario one like delfino plaza or luigys mansion, metroid ones like norfair and 
 frigate orpheon, starfox lylat cruise, metal gear solid shadow moses island, wario ware, green 
 hill zone, castle seige, halberd, and many others. There are also a handfull of returning melee 
 stages. many of Brawls stages are great to play on such as bridge of eldin witch is for the most 
 part staitonary but occasionaly King bulblin rides across the screen and the middle of the stage 
 blows up, or pirate ship which has cyclones coming in every now and then, bpmbs occasionaly shoot 
 out, you crash into rocks, and a bunch of other stuff, The metroid stages are neat as well with 
 there lava affects ore the parasitic queen in the background and the stage occasionaly turning 
 upside down, the lylat cruise also has great background affects, the shadow moses island has destructible 
 walls, as does luigys mansion, the stages are different, uniqe and fun. You can also choose between 
 four control options, the wiimote and nunchuck, the wii mote on its side, the classic controller, 
 or the gamecube controller, each one is different but you will prabably want to dust off your old 
 gamecube controller and play like that. You can also customize the controls to your preferances 
 and save them so that you can get control the game how you want to. The game has a simple purposs 
 which is to knock the other players off the screen. It is easy to pick up and play but there can 
 be alot of deph to it. There is time battle where you fight to get the most KOs in the given amount 
 of time, stock battles to fight to be the last one standing. You can also set the time to how long 
 you want to play or how many stock lives there are. There are also special brawls like Slow brawl, 
 fast brawl, tiny brawl, giant brawl, items set brawl, flower brawl, and many others. There is so 
 much customization that you will be hard pressed to want to stop playing for a along time. And 
 a long time you shall play. The game is simply addicting, you will be playing it for years to come 
 to try and get good with alot of charecters and search for ways to win and many things to unlock. 
 The game also features online connections. You have basic brawl where you fight random people in 
 a quick two minute match to try and get the most KOs, or team battle which is also two minutes 
 and you fight to get the most KOs for your team. Freind matches unlock alot more options via the 
 freind codes which may be annoying but expand the online with freinds considerably. With freinds 
 you can play time, stock, and many other things that you would play offline. Still there are some 
 minor quibbles to the fighting, such as clone final smashes, or some charecters that had untapped 
 potential, there are also some charecters that probably would have made nice additions but were 
 not included. The game also features numerous single player modes, like classic where you go stage 
 to stage in an arcade like fashion, stadium which includes target smash, multi man brawl and some 
 other things. The biggest attraction in the single player selection is the adfventure mode called 
 the Subspace Emissary, it is roughly 8-10 hours long. It place like an old school platformer and 
 you play as the different charecters as they team up to fight the subspace army. One levil might 
 be reminiscent of Donkey Kong Country, the next one might have mario traveling through the planes, 
 others have Link going through the forest, or samus going throught the reserch facility. The mode 
 is fun to play and the levils are neat, the enemys do get repetitive however and as an add on the 
 mode is pretty good but definetly not the main reason to buy the game as you may be dissapointed 
 if you had high expectations, although playing co op is fun, and you can unlock many trophys and 
 stickers and fight many classic Nintendo bosses like Petey Pirahna, or Ridley. It does have some 
 Georgus CG cutscenes to go along with it. Playing single player can unlock many trophys, stickers, 
 and peices of music. The number of trophys in the game is astounding, as is the number of stickers, 
 and classic peices of music. The multiplayer however will keep you coming back to this game for 
 years to come.
  
  Presentation: The game features realy slick and easy to use menus, and beutifall cutceens, and 
 amazing music. What else is ther to mention?
  
  
  Graphics: Easily one of the most impressive looking games on the Nintendo Wii. It runs at 60 frames 
 per second and never drops below, the particle explosions are some of the best seen in any nintendo 
 entry to date, the Charecter models are Spectaculer, the stages have great touches, and it runs 
 in 480p widescreen. The melee stages do not look nearky as impressive as the newer ones but the 
 charecter models are flawless and the it is just an incredibly fluid game. It also has beutifall 
 CG cutsceens in the subspace emmisary with crisp, colorful animation and seing each charecter for 
 the first time is a bwutifall site.
  
  
  Sound: Possibly the biggest OST ever devised in a video game. Many classic Nintendo tunes return 
 as well as remixes. marios recognizabull theme plays in the background, the xelda themes sound 
 truly Amazing, samus arans theme has had a great updated version, you hear brawls opening musical 
 score and you might sit on the edge of your couch, there are so many great themes to listen to. 
 The sound affects are also great, the menu sounds are punchy and the sound of links sword or sonics 
 rolling or Zeldas Magic are all great.
  
  Replay Value: With many trophys, stickers, and peices of music to collect, and Near flawless multiplayer 
 you will be playing this game for years to come.
  
  Super Smash Bros Brawl is the best iteration yet. It takes what the other two games had, and improves 
 it. It might not be perfect, but it has alot of great potential and long lasting replay value that 
 the game will keep you busy for years whether you are playing it online or offline. It is a must 
 buy and the best in the series. Pick it up.
  
  Gameplay: 9.5
  Presentation:9.5
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 10
  Replay value:10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masterbonus
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2008 8:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games I"ve ever play caused it have a lot of  
 and stickers I remember the first time I play it it was incredible and you dont get bored cause 
 you can play a new mode SUBESPACIAL EMISSARY so its impossible to get bored and one of the best 
 things is that the CPU on level 9 is a really hard challenge and the idea of play online is fantastic 
 so if you dont have it, what are you waiting for go and buy if you dont do that Tabuu is going 
 to end with you life jaja but really if you dont have it go and buy it cause you are wasting a 
 lot of time so go and finish the SUBSPACIAL EMISSARY, classic, and all the modes you can clear and 
 all the challenges you can make. Because when I open it I just cant stop playing this game, my parenst 
 said "Go to sleep" but I just cant stop playin but the bad thing is that the next day I wasnt able 
 to wake up. 
  And thats all Masterbonus is at you service, goodbye 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameRuler1
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  When i first played SSBB i loved it. It is the Best from all the previous SSB games. The Characters 
 are great. The Gameplay is great including the new subspace mode. The Variety of modes spice up 
 the gameplay and allow long lasting fun. The Boss Battles is a great mode, so is the Baseball mode, 
 and the event mode. The Event mode is really great because it allows a scenario to be placed. The 
 Game is the best with friends because of the entertainment received. Once you play this game you 
 will lose all hope to release it. This is one of those games that you cannot get enough of. The 
 Characters are really great and the Final Smashes are very exciting to use. Also the variety of 
 item make the brawl better. The Trophies, music, stickers, etc..... allow many challenges for players 
 to get. What are you waiting for? BRAWL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerair
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 8, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is too fun for my own good. I've always been a fan of the Smash Bros series, but Brawl 
 is something else. I've already logged over 50 hours in this game and it still hasn't gotten old. 
 I'm not exceptionally good at it, but I play it to have fun. It has its shortcomings, but it is 
 my favorite Wii game so far. 
  
  This game leans a bit more to serious gamers than casual ones, but the ability to choose the difficulty 
 level in the single player mode allows gamers of all skill levels to challenge themselves. However, 
 it takes a very dedicated 1337 gamer to unlock everything and complete all the challenges, especially 
 without using the golden hammers.
  
  Some points:
  
  -The huge combatant manifest is well balanced in most cases. However, some characters can be very 
 annoying and/or cheap at times, especially when they are in the wrong hands.
  
  -The ability to choose what controller you want to use is a great feature.
  
  -The level 9 
 CPU is good but is not a real challenge to hardcore Brawlers. However, this can be compensated 
 by fighting two (or three!) at a time. 
  
  -Nintendo WFC makes the game worth buying in itself. However, it has a few technical problems and 
 limitations, the most noteworthy of these being the lag experienced when one player in a match 
 has a somewhat slow broadband connection.
  
  -The ability to take replays and screenshots is a great addition but is flawed. Replays can't go 
 over 3 minutes and when viewing them there is no way to edit them or skip to a certain point or 
 rewind. Replays can not be transferred to a computer via the SD card like screenshots can. Screenshots 
 can only take pictures at certain angles.
  
  -The soundtrack and sound/music options are amazing.
  
  -The stage builder is another great 
 new feature, although very limited.
  
  -Epic intro song.
  
  
  If you have a Wii, BUY THIS GAME! You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Awfulbassplayer
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 8, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  So, I held out a long time before I got SSBB, and now I wish I didnt but in the end it was overall 
 a better idea. I mean, the reason I didnt get the game right away was because I am in college and 
 I didnt want it to consume myslef and/or taunt me when I was trying to do the abundence of work 
 I had. Now that it is the end of the year and I have some downtime I can play all I want, and I 
 have been doing just that! 
  
  Anyways, to the review!
  
  Super Smash Brothers Brawl is a lot more fun that I thought it would be. I didnt really have a 
 chance to play Melee because I didnt actually own a Gamecube at that time (I had already sold mine) . 
 I decided to give into the hype and pick it up and by god I am glad I did. 
  
  Lets go with the Pros of this game:
  
  There are tons of aweosome levels, some of my favorites 
 include Shadow Moses Island, Mushroomy Kingdom and the Green Hill Zone. I have yet to try out the 
 make your own battlefield feature but I plan to do so soon. The character list is also very impressive. 
 I love that Snake is in the game as well as Sonic because I was an avid fan of Sonic as a child 
 and Metal Gear Solid in my teenage years (and I am still a fan of both to this day, I even still 
 own a sega) . The story mode, the Subspace Emissary was very fun. I enjoyed the cut scenes, they 
 were very entertaining and enjoyable. One of my favorite new features though are the Assist Trophies. 
 They are a neat item and it is cool to see some of your favorite non-playable characters make an 
 appearence.
  
  Now for the Cons:
  
  I think level wise, there should have been more old Melee stages added in, I mean sure they have 
 some of the best ones in the game but the more stages the better in my opinion. Character wise, 
 although there is a big selection there is much I would change. My biggest problem is with Sonic, 
 I got very excited about him and was very let down. Most of his B attacks are just him spinning 
 and they are hard to manuver. Also, I know he is the fastest hedgehog around but he is way to fast 
 for the game and I tend to kill myself a lot with him. That brings me to my next problem, too many 
 characters are easy to kill yourself with. Such as Metaknight, whom I greatly dislike, and Falco. 
 They are both very hard to manuver and a lot of thier attacks make you immobile and vulnerable. 
 Sure, this is my personal opion but this is my review so I dont really care. Also, Id like to say 
 that I hate how a lot of the characters are similar to each other. The biggest example is that 
 of Fox, Falco and Wolf. They all basically have the same moves and It was a big dissapointment 
 because I was semi excited for Wolf in the game. 
  
  Overall, The game is great there is no doubting that. Sure there are cons but that is expected 
 in all games. If you own and Wii and dont own this game (doubtful) go and buy it now. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Sphere-
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 8, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  I was very excited about Brawl and was expecting Nintendo to give us a top notch game but sadly 
 I was let down. The graphics for this game are hardly an improvement over the games amazing predecessor 
 Melee and the camera zooms out far too much making the characters too small and hard to see. The 
 attacks are all over sensationalized flashing lights and fire that are a major turnoff since it 
 can make it hard to see what is going on where four people are all engulfed in a large flash.
 
  The soundtrack for this game is simply amazing but with a few problems. We are getting nothing 
 new from Nintendo, just the same amazing theme songs over and over and over again. Nintendo has 
 proved that it can make some amazing soundtracks for games, but here all they do is rehash. I enjoy 
 hearing a classic song once in a while, but in nearly ever game Nintendo releases, give me a break.
 
  Controls for this game vary greatly. If you are using the Wiimote, you will be left frustrated 
 over the lacking controls. If you use the GC control then you will get some more enjoyment out 
 of the game but you will find yourself trying the same tactics you used in Melee that are no longer 
 in Brawl, and this brings me to my next point.
  This game has been watered down worse than sports park beer. Almost all of the advanced techniques 
 practiced by professionals have been taken out of the game in an attempt to make the game more 
 evenly played and more accessible to new users. In my opinion, Nintendo has gone too far with this 
 and has made the game boring and not competitive at all. The lack of combos has made this a game 
 that will be pushed under the rug and forgotten about.
  Whilst this game featured on-line play, it could have been much better. You are forced to use a 
 "friend code" system that makes adding your friends a pain. There is sever lag even when playing 
 with someone across the street on a very good connection. There is no stat tracking and no voice 
 chat which makes team battles very difficult. With voice chat you could say, "You get the Smash 
 Ball and I will pin down DK" or something along those lines. It would make online play much more 
 fun and competitive.
  Overall this game has been a huge disappointment to me and makes me feel sometimes that I wish 
 I hadn't spend as much as I did on it. I have decided to give it a 6.5/10 for its lack of creativity, 
 boring and repetitive game modes, and terrible online play. Thanks for reading my review and remember 
 this is my opinion and you are not forced to believe everything I say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigbomb2
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 7, 2008 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Wow, it's been forever since my last review. But I can't let this slide. It's been 7 long years 
 since Melee, which I still played for those 7 years. Now we've got Brawl, and this just blows the 
 other Smash Bros. games away. I was pondering if I should get a 360 for a long time. Well, since 
 Brawl came out, I pretty much decided, "I must have a Wii!" So, I got one. That was one good idea. 
 I got Brawl (before my Wii actually) and started playing right away. I played it a bit before at 
 a friend's house, but playing by yourself and finding all these little goodies, or the whole solo 
 aspect, it's just plain great. 
  Plus, it was the first time I've played 10 hours straight since Medal of Honor: Rising Sun.
  
 
  The game has a lot of variety, from Event Matches to Home Run Contest, to the new Subspace Emissary, 
 or just good old Brawl matches with a friend. And now, we've got online play (which I have not 
 done yet at the time of this review) . All of these modes can help you unlock extras, which in the 
 grand scheme of things, is really the main reason you play be yourself. But that's the thing: you 
 will spend months, maybe years to unlock everyting. I never unlocked everything in Melee. I need 
 2 trophies, and I got it in 2003. Brawl has much, much more content than ever before. Throphies 
 are naturally back, and there's much more of them. Also, they're a lot funnier. New to this type 
 of collecting are stickers. These are like trophies, only 2D, no description, and look more like 
 older game artwork. Another thing you should always look for are CD's, which unlock more music. 
 
  
  Now, let's start with gameplay. You can play with 4 styles, nunchuck, Wiimote, Classic Controller, 
 or Gamecube controller. My preference is Gamecube controller. The nunchuck is ok, I never used 
 the classic controller, but the nunchuck isn't the easiest. It might be fine for a dumb cpu... 
 or friend. Although, this game is easy to pick up and play. There are many new items, such as the 
 Gooey bomb, Cracker Launcher, or Springs. Another new and always interesting item is the Assist 
 trophies, which spawns a character whcih you may know. These characters will help you, or just 
 annoy you. These items always add to the comic aspect. And of course, we can't forget the Smash 
 Ball. This, when broken, can allow a character to perform his or her Final Smash. They all are 
 powerful, if used right. The large roster of characters are all relatively balanced, so they all 
 have their ups and downs. 
  
  How about I explain the modes? There are many modes to choose from, more in Singleplayer. You have 
 Stadium, which consists of Home-run contest, Target Test, Multi-man Brawl, another one later on. 
 Home-run contest is fun in short bursts; don't try it too long, you'll get angry. The Target Test 
 is divided into 5 difficulties. This is fine, but what happened to Race to the Finish, or Snag 
 the Trophies? Oh well. And lastly, there's the Multi-man Brawl. The 2 hardest are the Cruel Brawl 
 and 15-minute Brawl. I tried them both to unlock trophies. Nearly destroyed my controller. Yeah, 
 I guarentee you will get angry. Never try to do it too much. That makes it worse. Remember, there 
 are more modes to play. So now let's move to Classic, which pits you against characters in a semi-set 
 pattern. All-star has returned as well, which also pits you againsts characters in an even more 
 set way, but with limited recovery moves. And last, we have the Subspace Emissary. This takes the 
 place of adventrue mode. This takes the player througha variety of levels, side-scrolling that 
 is. You must fight the Subspace Army with your beloved Nintendo characters. The characters stories 
 intertwine because of the Subspace army, and learn they must save the world from Subspace itself. 
 The story is brought to life by well-made cutscenes. However, there is no dialogue at all, so you 
 have to really on inferences and trophies to piece the story together. Now, moving onto multiplayer, 
 we have your standerd Brawl, special Brawl, Tournament, and the like. This is all quite similar 
 to past Smash Bros. games.
  Now, we also have a new and fun feature, Stage Builder. This let's you build your own stages. They're 
 a bit limited, but it let's you show off your imagination.
  
  Now, for the visual and sound part. The sound is much more crisp than in previous versions. The 
 music is definitly the whole highlight of sound. There is tons and tons of music, and most of it's 
 good. Some of them makes me cringe though. (Some of the Pikmen songs) This can be overlooked though 
 by the vast number of other amazing music. As for graphics, I don't consider them more than a great 
 looking Gamecube game. However, if you zoom up close, you can see some of the nicer features, like 
 the fuzz on the Ice Climbers parkas. The stages look nice too. the game runs really smooth though, 
 so it all equals out. 
  
  Positive: Tons and Tons of content, contols are tight, easy to learn but hard to master, lots of 
 characters and stages, sounds great, Online play for once, will keep you busy for a long time, 
 looks ok.
  
  Negative: Looks OK, some modes will make you scream (no joking here) , Subspace Emissary story is 
 very vague, it's not as fun without a friend or more.
  
  So, after a very long review, I can well establish that this is one awesome game. It makes the 
 other Smash Bros. games pale. So if you're pondering whether or not you should get a Wii, this 
 might convince you.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lild1425
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 7, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  A huge 41 character roster with 35 different levels and each level can have up to 7 songs to play 
 gives testament why it took so long for the third installment of Super Smash Bros. The new characters 
 are much more imbalanced with some really lame moves that take too much time (I am looking at you 
 Pit and your side B and Metaknight with your B and side B) , but overall the new characters are 
 very varied and extremely fun to play with. Fox having two clones is unnecessary and old characters 
 have exactly the same moves. If you have four friends readily accessable, the game is a blast. 
 Online is not what we were hoping for since there are no leaderboards or any stat tracking and 
 microphone options. Unfortunately, there is lag and a game like this one is completely useless 
 if there is lag. The game's collectibles like trophies, stickers, challenges, events, etc. are 
 what keep this game chugging along. I have put countless hours in single player brawl just so I 
 can complete the 100 brawl hours challenge. Nintendo did a wonderful job in keeping the player 
 engaged.
  
  Story:
  Depending on what you were expecting out of Subspace Emissary will change your satisfaction level. 
 If you were expecting a story mode, you were completely dissapointed. If you were expecting a better 
 adventure mode, you were very satisfied. The Emissary has no real story and even the name Subspace 
 Emissary makes no sense.
  
  Graphics:
  The game graphic and character detail looks polished. Could be better, but still wonderful.
  
 
  Value: 
  This game has the best value of any game to date and that's why I gave the game such a high score. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gandalf_lvl_20
Rating: 10
Date: May 7, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  This highly anticipated game, really rocked my world when it came out... the only game that I actually 
 called in sick from work to go get it the day it came out! LOL
  This game did not disappoint me one bit, it delivers all that we wanted and expected from the new 
 Super Smash Bros.
  The new characters are well picked, the veterans are still kickin' it hard!
  The stages are simply 
 amazing.
  The best part for me though... is the music. Koji Kondo, excellent work!! Truly the work of a Nintendo 
 musical veteran! That intro theme gets me every time...
  They truly outdid themselves.
  
  The subspace emissary truly shocked me, its an actual adventure! Not like in Melee where it only 
 lasted 20 minutes. You can easily spend a good 10 hours beating this level! 
  The CG cut scenes are awesome too! Its interesting to see characters having no relation whatsoever, 
 helping each other.
  
  I have NO complaints about this game. None!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vertiglug
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  This game has some of the best multiplayer that the wii has to offer. You can play for many hours 
 with as many as 8 to 10 friends and be completly happy. Muliti levels for intense and long lasting 
 fun, while it is more than entertaining to unlock the new characters. The online fun of this game 
 will keep you playing for many hours as well. the only true drawback to this completely wonderful 
 game, with little to no real innovations to the series, is the terrible 1 player mode, Its completly 
 boring and will leave you asking yourself why you got the game, but if you can muster your way 
 through it thou, you will be happy to have it beat. The classic mode proves to still be a very 
 fun 1 player version of the game thou. The game allows you to choose many different characters 
 and as well as allowing you to make levels, althou those have many glitches. Over all the game 
 will give you many hours of gameplay, but won't be the greatest game to play alone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBZKING1234
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  ok i have played super smash bros. for a while and i can admit its a good game in fact i can say 
 its great but i just cant give it a 10. Why? Ok first they keep having different characters with 
 the same basic move lists (ex: fox, falco and wolf) i would like to more creativity. Also it gets 
 pretty if you don't have someone to play it with because the online play is ruined unless you play 
 with someone by a friend code. Play with everyone mode is pretty bad. Most of the time you cant 
 find anyone and if you do you can also finally get major lag and disconnect. ok well anyway this 
 game is still great despite that here's why:
  
  Gameplay: Fun and addictive. Nintendo has a winning formula with this. I almost never find myself 
 bored and i dont see that ill stop playing this game anytime soon.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is amazing they have over 100 songs from a vast variety of games 
 that you never get tired of and now you can pick music for certain stages too (only if the song 
 goes with the level though) .
  
  Graphics: I have to say the look pretty good for the Wii. Nothing too spectacular though but for 
 a wii game id say good
  
  Multiplayer: The multiplayer is great too and is where you'll spend most of your time. This is 
 great and with the vast amount of characters you won't be bored any time soon.
  
  Replay Value: After beating the subspace emissary you have a vast amount of challenges the you 
 can finish for additional music, stages, trophies, etc. 
  
  So overrall this is a great game which i advise anyone with a Wii to buy but im dissapointed with 
 some of the characters and the online costing this game some points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingKnightGamer
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely in my top five. It delivered so much fun that you can play it for a year 
 and still have fun with it. The Classic Mode, first off was fun. It was tons of fun, with random 
 battles and cool challenges, like facing giant foes and target smash. Plus the main battle with 
 Master Hand was great! The battle music was catchy and got your blood pumping. After you beat it 
 Classic Mode your character's trophy is placed at the end. So what I'm doing right now is getting 
 every character and using them in Classic Mode, I'm almost done.
  
  Now for the Character Rooster. The number of characters are vast and unlocking them is only half 
 the fun. Playing as them is even better! I have already unlocked all the characters and played 
 as them. (except Jigglypuff, I'm kinda reluctant to play as her.) First off, let me tell you about 
 Mr. Game and Watch, he's pretty cool and has been upgraded. He's one of my favorites, if you know 
 how to play as him right. Second is Wolf, Fox's rival. It took me dozens of tries to beat him because 
 he's a tough foe but I finally did. He's a pretty cool character. Next is Toon Link, he's alright, 
 he's just like regular Link only shorter,, and he too was hard to beat. Next is R. OB., strangely 
 he is one of my favorites. He so fun to play as and he can kick butt. Next is a newcomer named 
 Pokemon Trainer. He's pretty cool and I love to play as his pokemon Charizard and Squirtle. I don't 
 however, like to play as Ivysaur, that pokemon can't jump to save his life. Lucario is just like 
 Mewtwo only a little bit better. He's still alright to play as. Snake is one of the coolest, along 
 with Metaknight and Sonic, in the game! The rest of the newcomers and old ones are fun too!
  
  Now I'm gonna talk about Adventure Mode, the Subspace Emissionary! The part is long and fun 
 all the way through! I'm still impressed that Nintendo can make all these characters come together 
 in such an amazing way! The boss battles are fun and the story is great, despite the fact that 
 no one talks in the game. Adventure Mode is even better when you have a buddy to play with you, 
 or in Earl's own words "Brawl buddy!"Fighting against each other is just as fun as well.
  
  Last is the stages. If you unlock all the stages, which I haven't just yet, the number to choose 
 from is vast. I especially like the Wario stage, despite the fact that Wario, to me, was one of 
 the crappy characters. The stages are well-designed and very interactive. Overall, if you have 
 a Wii you would have to be a moron not to get this game.
  
  By the way, here are my favorite characters:
  
  1: Snake
  
  2: Sonic
  
  3: Mr. Game and 
 Watch
  
  4: R. O. B.
  
  5: Metaknight 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luziorava
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Not much can be said about SSBB that hasn't been said already, so I'll just talk about the game's 
 pros and cons. Here they are:
  
  PROS
  
  1) Amazing gameplay: Final Smash addition is very cool and fun.
  2) Superb character roster: 
 35 fighters from everywhere and anywhere.
  3) Stages are original and are quite varied.
  4) Subspace Emissary is extremely addictive and very fun.
  5) Graphics really push the Wii to 
 its limits and are extremely good.
  6) The quantity of extras is so big, you might as well finish it a year after you got the game.
 
  7) Multiplayer mode is excellent, with a lot of options and just gets better and better.
  8) Online mode is WAY too cool, and uses the code system to Brawl with your friends.
  9) Stage 
 Builder mode is great, you'll be able to create state-of-the-art stages you think you'd never make.
 
  10) All in all, one of the 10 best games Nintendo's ever made.
  
  CONS
  
  1) While there are many, there could be at least 5 more characters without counting Roy, which 
 they left out of the game.
  2) Super Smash Bros. 64 stages were left out: they were better than Melee's...
  3) At times, 
 Subspace mode can be annoying
  4) It'll be impossible to play at least 5 online matches in a row without getting disconnected 
 during some time...
  5) Long, LOOOOONG loading times...
  6) May be more addictive than crack if not handled with care...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TOurnamenty
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2008 5:21 am PT
Review:  Ah the Smash Bros series. It started out in 1999 when th creator (forget his name now) was arguing 
 with his friend that Mario could beet Link. His friend kept saying "Link has bombs and arrows, 
 while Mario can only shoot fireballs." The CEO though of making a game where you take Link from 
 Hyrule and Mario from Mushroom Kingdom, plop them in an arena, and GO! Then his advisors stated, 
 "alot of people think DK could beet BOTH Mario and Link." and "well about Pikachu?" "Samus is a 
 sure winner" "DONT FORGET LUIGI!" and so on. In the end, the CEO decided on bringing the 8 hallmark 
 Nintendo characters: Mario, Kirby, Link, DK, Samus, Fox, Pikachu, and Yoshi, with 4 "unlockable" 
 characters: Captian Falcon, Luigi, Jigglypuff, and Ness and put them in one big smash fest. Each 
 character with 3 "special attacks" and many "standard attacks" all controled with the A and B buttons. 
 After that amazing release, Super Smash Bros Melee hit the shelves. with 25 total characters (quite 
 a few where clones) , players were tripping over themselves to get at it. Even a few months ago 
 (late 2007) Melee stil sold for around 50$, the price of a newly released game. Brawl, the sequal 
 of melee, caused an uproar from fans. With 35 character (with only one clone) , and in-depth storyline, 
 and online support. Brawl was descirbed as "The Brawl to end them All". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NewPorkCity
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2008 4:51 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is possibly the best game I've ever played. It takes the Smash formula, 
 puts it on speed, and then adds Wi-Fi. With 35 characters and over 20 stages, it's impossible to 
 get bored. Plus, if you want an adventure, go ahead and try out Adventure Mode. It seems quirky 
 at first, but you get used to it, and actually find yourself caring about the characters. Online 
 related, it has relatively good connection, and for the 50+ brawls I've played online, never once 
 have I had more than 2 seconds of lag in the waiting room and in the beginning of the match. When 
 you realize all that you can unlock, all the 'Masterpieces' (which are the original games of the 
 characters that you can fight with) than you can play, and all the trophies that you can receive, 
 it's impossible NOT to want to beat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenny789
Rating: 9
Date: May 5, 2008 3:27 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is a cross-over fighting game featuring tons of Nintendo characters battling 
 it out against each other. The game is fairly simple unlike other fighting games that require you 
 to push buttons in the correct order to pull off combos, in Brawl you only need to push one button 
 for attacking. Depending on your controller, you attack with A or B or 1 or 2 and to use Smash 
 Attacks just tap the analog stick in the direction you're facing and push A or 1. To get a better 
 understanding of the controls, it's best to visit the main Smash Bros. Brawl website. There are 
 no button memorization needed since Brawl does not have those kind of combos. To defeat an opponent, 
 you simply need to keep attacking him until his damage percentage is high enough and then you simple 
 use a "Smash Attack" to send him flying off the stage which gives you 1 point. There is also an 
 HP option which swaps the damage counter with a health counter, In this mode you simple keep attacking 
 him/her until his/her health reaches 0. Although the controls and gameplay is fairly easy to understand, 
 the hardcore audience won't feel left out. If you master the controls well then you can "juggle" 
 opponents and do some combos on the ground. No matter what kind of gamer you are, Smash Bros. Brawl 
 has a lot to offer for almost everyone.
  
  Brawl is the one of the games on the Wii with the best graphics. Backgrounds are very detailed 
 and so are the characters. A lot of the characters from Melee have had a massive graphical upgrade 
 such as Link and Mario. Graphics remain fantastic online so no need to worry about it. Even the 
 background characters such as Knuckles, Tails and Silver on the Sonic stage look great. All in 
 all, Brawl has fantastic graphics and everything ingame is very detailed.
  
  Brawl also has fantastic sound in the game. From the Menu to the Stages, all the songs are great. 
 Not only that but Brawl has a large collection of songs for you to unlock/collect. Some have been 
 remade just for Brawl while some remain the same from the game it came from. One annoying thing 
 I found is that the main theme for Brawl is everywhere. From Smash the Targets to online Practice 
 Mode, it's always a different version of the main theme. It's not that the main theme is bad , 
 it just gets a little boring listening to it all the time but that's just a minor problem to me. 
 It might not even annoy you and who knows you might even like it. Sound effects are a little different 
 from Melee for example, the Party Ball makes a slightly different sound than the one in Melee but 
 I don't think a lot of people will notice this. Although it's different, it's still very good. 
 Bob-ombs and Smart Bombs sound great when they explode and the music you get from picking up the 
 Golden Hammer is pretty good. The characters themselves also sound great, I think they did a great 
 job on the voice acting. All in all, Brawl has fantastic sound whether it's the background song 
 or the sound effects of characters and items.
  
  I highly recommend this game to anyone out there who's a big Nintendo fan or to anyone who wants 
 a great multiplayer game. It's fantastic when you have friends over to play it with you and the 
 online is "ok" at the moment. You'll also have a great time playing it by yourself but the game's 
 shining moments are from multiplayer battles.
  
  Overall, this game was everything I expected it to be. I found online to be a bit disappointing 
 and I'm hoping Nintendo will get that sorted out soon but playing with friends was great. We all 
 had a great time and I believe it's one of the best multiplayer Wii games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phazon_Killer
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  now have you played tekken or soul caliber well if u havnt played smash your a loser dude, super 
 smash bros brawl is truely the best game on the wii by far maybe the best that will have come out, 
 the thing that makes this game different from the other 2 previous smashes is that this one includes 
 2 character from nintendos rival companies, snake and sonic, now for all nintendo who really hates 
 sony, now u can smash snake of screen instead of smashing kirby or mario, brawl now has an even 
 bigger roster than before with now 35 characters that make the game way funner than b4 and the 
 wifi allows you to play with people around the world so this game is def gonna last you a long 
 time, my fc is in my profile for anyone that wants to fight, well the game now includes a better 
 adventure mode with a new story with cut scenes called the subspace emissary its a really entertaining 
 story and the easiest way to get most of the characters, wolf jigglypuff and toon link need to 
 be unlocked alternatively, this game is really good to play with friends when you think you had 
 enough of this game you just keep coming back for more i promise you this game is best game you 
 could find for the wii and it is not xbox and ps3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shootingpeanuts
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: From the best the Wii can make to some excellent Sprite details. Some textures and details 
 make you think your playing a 360 game while others will make you think your playing an excellent 
 GBA game. 
  
  Sound: The clearest sounds on a Wii game possible. The soundtrack consists of over 200 songs stretching 
 through Nintendo's history. Each song is well done and remade to the perfect touch. 
  
  Controls and Playability: The Game features just about every controller configuration the Wii can 
 handle. Hold the Wii Mote sideways. Use the Wiimote Nunchuk combo for a new feel. Use the classic 
 and Gamecube controllers for the same feel you felt during those many hours of Melee. 
  
  Story: Theres a story this time featuring every character in the game. I won't go into details 
 to save spoilers but you will be surprised at how the story progresses without saying a single 
 word! 
  
  Multiplayer: The same great multiplayer you know and love from the previous smashes. Even though 
 theres online play this time around, its not worth it if you don't have a Friend Code in hand. 
 
  
  Overall: Probably the best fighter ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jareddra
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Where do I begin? I can not believe how cool and incredibly fun this game is. This game was created 
 for true gamers thats all I can say. If you play this game and don't love it you just need to stop 
 playing videogames period. The graphics are incredible and original and the artistry of this game 
 is amazing. The stages are so cool because some are destructable and some change after a while 
 to make things more interesting. My favorite characters to play as are Solid Snake and Wario because 
 I like snakes weapons and fighting style and I like to run over the other characters on warios 
 hog. This game has a bunch of different games all on one disc and that right there makes this game 
 great. This is the best game on the market in my opinon nothing is better. I love this game more 
 than Super Mario Galaxy and that is saying a lot. Brawl is simply unique and innovative and I will 
 be playing this game for a long time. Simply the  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shillster89
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is definitly the best Smash Bros. game in the series. First, the character 
 selection is quite immense, and it has something for everyone. With 35 characters, some new to 
 the series, like Solid Snake and Sonic, and some veterans, like Mario and Link, no one will be 
 disspointed when choosing who they fight as. Also very immense, is the stage selection. There are 
 41 different stages, all very unique, that you will be playing over and over again. Not to mention 
 you can create your own stages. The item selection is bigger and better than ever, with most of 
 the old classics, plus a bunch of new items. Assist trophies are very fun to use, and allow for 
 some nice cameos of characters that didn't make it into the game as playable characters. The Smash 
 Ball definitly brings some more fun and action to the brawl, with each character having a signature 
 move that is most likely to blow your opponents away. Anoter great addition is the story mode, 
 Subspace Emmisary. It is an indepth story, an adventure mode that is unlike any other in the Smash 
 Bros. series. The graphics in SSBB are excellent, especially the cutscenes in the story mode, which 
 let you see the characters in ways never before seen. There are a lot of things to collect, such 
 as over 500 trophies, over 500 stickers, and a lot of CD's, which allow you to customize the music 
 in each stage, with soundtracks from various games. Overall, this is a must-have for wii-owners, 
 and it will not dissapoint anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ian6432486
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Brothers Brawl is possibly the best party game of the century, with it's revolutionary 
 gameplay, extremely atmospheric graphics, and a collection of the best sounds of all of the past 
 Nintendo video games.
  
  GAMEPLAY 10/10
  With all the different playing modes, from Subspace Emissary, to Basic Brawl, to Boss Battles, 
 you will not easily become bored with this game. It also has an entire board of various challenges 
 you can do, from beating All-Star on intense to collecting all stickers. It will take you at LEAST 
 100 hours to complete all the challenges, if not 200.
  
  GRAPHICS: 10/10
  I can't even describe to you how atmospherical these graphics are. The backgrounds of the levels 
 are all extremely nostalgic, and the Subspace Emissary cutscenes practically bring all these old 
 characters to life.
  
  SOUND: 10/10
  There's really not much to say here. Nintendo has taken almost all of the best songs from over 
 a quarter-century of games, and the character voices are completely improved from their previous 
 respective games. All in all, this game's sound deserves nothing less than perfection.
  
  OVERALL: 10/10
  For the most part, I could not find any problems with this game. There are a 
 few caracters that I don't think should've been included (Sonic) , but over all, it's virtually 
 spotless. Unlike most good games, in which you play them for a limited amount of time and then 
 get burned out, you can play Brawl almost endlessly without getting bored (especially with it's 
 new online capabilities) . I would suggest this game to anyone and everyone, rich or poor, young 
 or old. It's garunteed to increase your overall level of happiness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roa33
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 4, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Yeah Brawl is what most expected for a casual gamer, but I played melee competitively like many 
 others, and in my oppinion they took out the technical aspect of Melee and put more "mind games" 
 into it. The physics have been changed to where are characters are much slower and the reduced 
 gravity makes aerial combat a little more of a must compared to Melee where combo-ing somewhere 
 was more fluent. 
  
  The online play in my experiences is pretty crappy if/when you actually get into a game. A few 
 friends of mine said they have not experienced a non laggy game which greatly impacts the match 
 considering every move counts in some situations. 
  
  Don't get me wrong, Brawl is still an awesome game, but it has qualities more like the original 
 Smash Bros compared to Melee. If your more of a thinking type of person rather than all action 
 then Brawl is a good game to check out, but for the hard core gamers who seriously like quick action, 
 a lot of that has been taken out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheOboeNerd
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 4, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  I can't explain why, but this game feels just so much more emptier than Melee. It just doesn't 
 feel right.
  
  Although it's still quite fun, it doesn't leave you playing for as long as the other games did. 
 Wi-fi is quite a failure, custom stages are just not interesting, and the character roster is just 
 full of clones, and at times more unbalanced than ever. 
  
  I find it quite frustrating how the two third-party characters to ever appear in the series (Snake 
 & Sonic) have to be unlocked. Sonic would have made a nice addition to Subspace, but it's quite 
 awkward how such a hyped character was only available for the final boss, barely contributing to 
 the story.
  
  The soundtrack is by far the best I've heard in a while. Everything from the main theme to the 
 hundreds of tracks available in My Music makes it perfect.
  
  There's a huge list of features, enough to make a party fun. I'm not saying that Brawl is a bad 
 game, but something's just wrong with it. It's missing something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenzo287
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 3, 2008 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Now I originally planned to give this game a 10 and a Masterpiece classification (something I do 
 to all games I rate 10) but that would mean that there is nothing wrong with it. But there are 
 problems and they are experince ruining problems. But wait before you hit that negative review 
 button, this game is still one of the best games released this year and so far is this years best 
 release on Wii.
  
  Let's start off with the gameplay. There isn't much difference from the versions of the past. It's 
 basically a two button attack system with variations depending on what direction the control stick 
 (or d pad) is being held in at time of button press. You can use four control types: Wiimote, Nunchuck, 
 Classic Controller, and GameCube controller. More often than not you will be using the tried and 
 true GameCube controller. The Nunchuck control system is an abomination and will influence your 
 playing in a negative way. The Wiimote is your second best bet with the Classic Controller getting 
 the bronze medal. Now add some standard dodging and blocking buttons and you get the just of the 
 Smash control scheme. There odds are extremely high that you have played Melee before and so you 
 know what you're getting. There were several changes made from Melee, most noticeable is the pace 
 of the game seems to be significantly slower albeit more chaotic than ever before. The new Smash 
 Balls offer devastating Final Smashes that will deliver great amounts of damage to your opponent 
 depending on your character. Some characters like Jigglypuff and King Dedede offer significantly 
 weaker Final Smashes that offer a low possibility of getting a KO. Despite this you will enjoy 
 yourself and it is a lot of fun.
  
  The graphics are a slight disappointment as they do not show off the full power of the Wii as Melee 
 did the GameCube, and games like Super Mario Galaxy offer much more detail. That's not to say they're 
 bad. They are much better than most Wii games. and offer much more in detail over its predecessor. 
 Ultimately however it is just an upgrade of Melee, but to this day Melee looks pretty damn good.
 
  
  The sound is by far the most impressive thing about this game. There are hundreds of unlockable 
 songs, a ton of them aren't able to be unlocked except by picking up a CD in game. Every series 
 represented in the game has at least one music track, even more if they are a playable character. 
 Though some questionable music tracks are present (such as Environmental Noises a compilation of 
 crickets and other living things you may hear in the woods at night) the music selection is top 
 of the line offering everything from Mario Bros. to Twilight Princess. In addition to this you 
 can customize the playlists for each stage and even the main menu. This is the most impressive 
 track listing for any game ever although one particular song, Metal Gear Solid 2 theme, is absent 
 after being rumored to be put in. But this is more of a personal complaint and does not affect 
 my scoring.
  
  Now the game is a must buy for any Wii owner but be warned of excessively long loading times. They 
 are some of the longest on the Wii and vary from a few seconds to a minute. Usually they aren't 
 as bad as say a PS1 game but sometimes they can be outright ridiculous. Another large scale problem 
 is server traffic which causes large amounts of lag. Although if you don't press many buttons at 
 once the lag is significantly reduced.
  
  These problems will not stop you from buying this game. In fact you probably already own this game. 
 But with lame online support, and long loading times I cannot give this a perfect score, though 
 admittedly these are the only problems in the game. Also included is a level editor which can be 
 shared with friends via WiiConnect24 and a new single player adventure called Supspace Emissary. 
 That mode has a great story as far as Smash Bros. goes but ultimately is a boring 10 hour romp 
 through repeating levels and well crafted cutscenes. The stadium modes offer a variety of modes 
 including Home Run Contest and Multi Man Brawls where you face numerous generic enemies called 
 Alloys. There are also demos of popular Virtual Console titles. While a nice addition these are 
 things we should be able to download instead of unlocking them in Smash Bros. The bottom line is 
 that you should buy this and there is a great chance that you will buy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: znator
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 3, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl is ideally the best game on Wii and if history repeats itself the best Wii 
 game ever.
  
  Introducing the biggest line-up ever, players can choose to play as long awaited Sonic the Hedgehog, 
 Metaknight, Wario, King Dedede, Snake and many other characters you can require later on in the 
 game.
  
  Brawl's adventure map gets revamped into the Subspace Emissary, a offline adventure mode that has 
 you join up with other characters in Nintendo history, it doesn't have the best story-line, and 
 stages can get repetitive, it's one of the easiest ways to unlock all of the characters.
  
  The Vault is just great, for the first time you can create your own stages and share them with 
 Wii friends, take screenshots and send them to friends, and share replays, which keeps the replay 
 value of Brawl all the more special.
  
  Multiplayer is great, but it is limited, their is no online ranking, but you can play against 4 
 players, but it can randomly be lagging and slow.
  
  Overall if you are into fighting, and want to use Nintendo characters to kick butt , Brawl is the 
 game to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 3, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is the third installment in the Super Smash Bros. series. The story in 
 SSE is a little hard to explain. The game is more than your average Smash Bros. The game features 
 Solid Snake and Sonic the Hedgehog. And new things in this game make it all worth while.
  
  What I liked about this game is that you can have multiple ways to control your characters. Create 
 your own arenas. Play online. Solid Snake and Sonic make phenominal apperances. Playing Toon Link 
 is really great. New characters. A load of content. Devastating Final Smashes. Stupendous graphics.
 
  
  What I didn't like about this game is that Wii Remote movements are difficult. Five absent characters 
 from Melee.
  
  Overall, this is one of the best Wii fighters. Slick movements. Online play make it all worth while. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eeveefan93
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl Is A Game Like Super Smash Bros. Melee But More Epec Than Melee! You Can 
 Build A Stage When You Want To, Snake And Sonic Make An Aperince In Brawl, And Play In Melee Stages 
 If You Want! Unfortinitly, There's A Stage That Is Realy Long In SSE Mode And Thats The Final Level! 
 But Luckly I Beat It The 3rd Day I Got Brawl! But Just Do What Way You Want Unlocking A Certan 
 Charitar, Useing SSE Mode Or Keep Battling Till New Chalanger Aperes! What Ever You Want! I Got 
 My Favrote Charictor,"Toon Link", By SSE Mode, Got Ness By Battles! BTW if You Have Brothers, Sisters, 
 And/Or Friends, Do SSE Mode With Them Then It's Easyer! You Can Play Wi-Fi With Friends Far Away!
 
  
  What I Like About This Game: I Like To Play As Toon Link, Snake And Sonic Make An Aperince, Building 
 Stages, And It Is Copatable For 
  Wi-Fi Conection!
  
  What I Dislike About This Game: SSE Mode Is Hard!
  
  So Brawl Is Better Than Melee! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supern00b456
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 10, 2008 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is just like any other game in its franchise. Bob-ombs explode, shells 
 fly, lasers fire. It's nuts. This is the third installation in the series, and it seems to mend 
 problems that Melee had. For example, Adventure mode was repetitive, and it went against Sakurai's 
 wishes of making a game that gives you a different experience each time you play (See Itawa Asks) . 
 They replaced it with a side-scrolling story mode called The Subspace Emissary. This adventure 
 surpasses the one in Melee, and it makes unlocking characters and stages this way seem less like 
 a chore like it seemed in Melee. They've also added a multitude of new characters, beating Melee's 
 roster by 9, however, I'm not going to get into who should have been in Brawl and who shouldn't 
 have, like "Wolf is a minor villain, and King K. Rool should have taken his spot  : ( !". They have 
 also brung back Melee stages that bring back that nonstagia feeling, as well as added a stage builder 
 feature, that while it lacks certain things, it gets the job done. It also brings back the idea 
 of collecting trophies, and they've added a new form of collecting stickers, and they also serve 
 as power-ups in The Subspace Emissary. They have also added a new way of collecting stuff, called 
 Challenges Mode, which keeps you playing even after you have beaten everything else. They also 
 replace Lottery mode with Coin Launcher, but if you've played it as long as I have, new things 
 will come once in a blue moon, and that gets frustrating for some people. They've brought back 
 Classic mode, too. But, what really shines about this game is its stellar multiplayer. Special 
 Brawl has been fine-tuned to allow you to pick as many conditions as you want, and now you don't 
 have to play Camera mode to take snapshots. Normal Brawl, however, is pretty much unchanged, except 
 for the new items, stages, and characters, which can be accessed thru Special Brawl, too. However, 
 it's NOT perfect, as it has a few minor flaws. For example, the CD's that give you new music are 
 rare, only last half a second, and are not added to your collection if a computer picks them up. 
 Also, some challenges get you frustrated, and now you only have 5 Target Smash!!! levels instead 
 of 1 for each character. They also killed Bonus mode and the rating system, like Face Planter and 
 Marathon Man. That being said, Super Smash Bros. Brawl is an excellent game, and is a welcome addition 
 to any collection. This is my first review, so please rate. Thank you. 
  
  
  P. S: This is a 9.7, not 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nelzoma
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Graphics = Amazing
  Gameplay = Insane
  Difficulty = OH YEAH!
  Style = Great
  Idea= YAY!!!!!
  
  Ok everything about this game is great. You will play the Subspace Emissary 
 for about eight to ten hours you will play the regular brawls for as long as you have the game 
 and you can even make youre own stages so you all ways have something new. You can unlock so many 
 things it will never end and there are so many LITLE features that you will have tons of fun. Nintendo 
 did an amazing job.
  Sorry but since i have short reviews i need to add words.
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brawl_freak
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  i'll start off by saying this is a fantastic game. the roster is as balanced as it can be. amazing 
 multiplayer. and a all new and original storymode. this is a great party game and the final smash 
 feature is really great as when it appears all my friends and me go crazy. also the side features 
 are great, like the stage builder, masterpieces etc.. now the training mode is way better because 
 you can now set your cpu level. also they have a new mode called boss battles in which you fight 
 most of the bosses you fight in subspace emissary. they still have all the old stuff from melee 
 like the classic mode all star mode event match and multi man melee and the best part is that most 
 of the things (except classic mode) are co-op so you can team up with friends. 
  
  for more check out my ssbb review on youtube. my username is brawlmaster111
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgarcia3
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  Let's be honest. While this game is truly entertainment at its finest moment, that doesn't mean 
 its perfect. I have played and owned all Smash brothers game since the 64 version. So let me start 
 with the positives
  1. Graphics are top notch. They look nothing like their gamecube counterparts.
  2. Character animations 
 are smoother than usual.
  3. Online battles can be hella fun and really entertaining when its someone you know.
  4. Even 
 after all the characters are unlocked you can still have tons of fun unlocking other goodies within 
 the game.
  5. AI's seem to have been greatly improved. Setting a computer player to a simple normal is pretty 
 challenging.
  6. Character roster is PRETTY likeable.
  7. The ability to choose how likely a song will appear on a certain stage is great since I for one 
 don't like some of the tracks within a stage.
  
  And NOW the negatives.
  1. Some of the stages are bland and unlikeable
  2. Some of the characters in the roster could have 
 been done without.
  3. There ARE still clone characters. At least five, with a few minor tweaks, but CLONES nonetheless
 
  4. Gamespot lies when it says relatively lag-free online play. If you fight someone with a TERRIBLE 
 connection the game will lag, TERRIBLY. Or sometimes during a fight it will kick you out for having 
 a terrible connection.
  5. The online play ALWAYS has a 1 second lag with controls so if you have SOMETHING planned you'll 
 have to plan 1 second ahead, which is nearly IMPOSSIBLE since most thins in brawl are spur of the 
 moment plans.
  6. The final smashes are mostly all show and no real power. Sure, some of them are 1 hit KO's but 
 that takes the fun out of the game in some scenarios
  7. Lack of females. I know I'm not alone on this! The lack of females just has that sexist feel 
 to the game! Overall from the 35 roster of characters there are 4 females (if you count jigglypuff 
 as a female)
  
  OVERALL this game IS pretty good, despite the roster not being as good many hoped. It still is 
 worth the money and is terribly addictive anyway. I recommend you buy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gksuper
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  Have you ever felt the need to kick jiggly puffs butt? ever had th urge to obliterate your friends 
 with tons of nentendo characters? well brawl fullfills all those needs and more. melee was fun, but 
 we all know it was missing some things. brawl fixes every single glitch in the game ( except the 
 one were you head goes through walls) and adds tons of new characters to fight with . brwal truley 
 is the greatest game for the wii, and possibly every other system to date .it took so long for this 
 game to finnaly be released ,but the wait is over. brawl i the best fighting game ever and the online 
 play is amazing. its a great game at parties or when your all alone. all i can say about this game 
 is **** .ya, its that amazing. gamespot you need to change your rating system. this game doesnt deserve 
 a ten it deserves a ten billion and two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ed_brannon
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 11:01 pm PT
Review:  The latest in the Smash Bros Series Super Smash Bros Brawl comes to Wii. It had huge sales and 
 did very well with critics. The came is extremely well put together. Lets start wih the Subspace 
 MIssions or Story mode. You progress around the world forced to play as different characters. DOn't 
 get me wrong this is well done also even though you don't get to pick your charecters it is done 
 ona way that makes sence and progress the story nicley. This is also one of the easiest ways to 
 unlock charecters. There are plenty of charecters starting out and many unlockables with a few 
 surprises. NOw onto Combate IN the Story mode it is either a side scrolling or vertical scrolling. 
 But the camera in most cases follows you. SO it is not frustrating. In the Vs mode you objective 
 can be a few different in coins you just try to have the most coins when time runs out then there 
 is stock with is to be the last one standing. Then there is timed which is self explan intory. 
 There are many items Feacherd from most of the games but the one that is the most important is 
 the final smash attack whitch unleashes a charecters true power to say it is a special special 
 abilty basicly kills or knocks off every one it hits. The online is done thje same. My only complaint 
 is that it lags sometimes. Overall a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spacepirate58
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 2, 2008 10:32 pm PT
Review:  One could look at the game and say that it is the greatest thing ever, and when it comes to this 
 it comes pretty close! Characters all over the gaming universe come together as one to show off 
 their skills! Now, the gaming comes pretty slowly, so you just have to work with it for a while 
 and get the hang of it if you are new. Just for you, though, there are four ways to play. For the 
 creative, you can make infinite levels with a new stage builder, capable of making (somewhat limited) 
 levels. For the adventurous, you have the Subspace Emissary, which is a full-fledged adventure. 
 It can last a good seven hours, and features quite enough to keep you happy for a while. There 
 are also so many different trophies that your Nintendo knowledge will be a small library by the 
 end, of course, if you like the reading. There have been large amounts of characters, so you will 
 be very interested in the fighting for some time, yet strangely you will be attracted to the other 
 aspects as well, pulling away from the Brawl itself. 
  
  This all said, it may be a family game, but if your family is not game savvy, it will take some 
 practice, practice your parents may not be willing to commit to. As well, once you get the characters 
 and some goals, you have seen so much! It just seems to leave you with that feeling that you want 
 more, that there must be more, that it all can't just end. 
  
  That is the hard part, trying to admit that there is little else in the game but the fighting. 
 But it leaves you longing for more, and your video gaming may reach a standstill as long as you 
 still feel that longing. The thing is that the game gives so much, it just makes you cry to see 
 it all end. But understand that the wait is half the fun, and the wait with www. smashbros. com was 
 the greatest time of my life. And a year later I am finally realizing that it is all over. The 
 game, I must admit, is so awesome that it is quite possibly the best game in existence, but I hate 
 to say I have done almost all. So, if you are willing to have some happiness, and in the end some 
 sadness, take the faithful step into the world of Brawl! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZF
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Ever wonder if Mario could beat up Link? Or if Samus could take a hit from Fox. Those Questions 
 were answered in Super Smash Bros for the N64. Then, 3 years later more questions were answered 
 in Super Smash Bros Melee such as: Can Peach actually fight? Can Bowser actually hit Mario? Then 
 7 years later Super Smash Bros Brawl come out and answers more. Now you know that Meta Knight has 
 the guts to beat up Dedede. also that Ike and Link will actually battle.
  
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is one of the 2 most anticipated games of 2007 and 8, the other being GTA4. 
 With many upgrades from Melee such as graphics moves and of course; characters. The Multiplayer 
 is amazing especially if your playing with 4 pople all that yelling and screaming and taunting. 
 It's like heaven to me. But if you feel like going solo for a while this gives you something to 
 look for. Sure you got classic, But; they cut out that crappy adventure mode from melee and put 
 in this truly amazing story known as; The Subspace Emmisary. This amazing 8 hour long story with 
 beautiful cutscenes in between each level. Overall SSBB is a truly astonishing game with a few 
 suprising hidden characters I didn't expect. So if you didn't get this game in the first week like 
 me, GO GET IT NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaron_n_sc
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  OMG! this is one of the best games i have ever played. Great characters and all the stages are 
 very unique. Surprisingly better than Bioshock and that was a good game. Best game of the year!!! 
 The other games are good but this is the best of the best of the Smash Bros. franchise... am i 
 right? It does get boring after a while because after you beat SSE, but that is only because there 
 are no new characters after you beat it. Its cool untill you get bored of all the characters and 
 the character sellection is good too... but over all, this is one of the best games ever created 
 other than Guitar Hero 1 2 and 3, but when they come out with the new SSB (if they do.....) then 
 it would be blown out of the water by the new one. Oh, and anyone agree with someone trying to 
 make a virtual reality game where you actually get to run around and the character actually runs 
 around? that would be a good idea for the next SSB. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CraZySeahorSe
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 2, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  Everything in this game runs incredibly smoothly. Regular Brawl, 1p modes, the vault, etc. The 
 only thing that doesn't always run well is the online play. It is a little disappointing as it 
 lags quite often... but it is a VERY minor problem in the overall review of the game. Trust me, 
 Brawl makes up for it. I dont even want to take the time to explain it all... just go get it.
 
  Graphics
  Great graphics for Wii. Not the best, but gorgeous background environments and updated character 
 models are impressive.
  Sound
  Some of the best music i've ever heard. With such a large array of songs, tunes, and tracks from 
 all different games... it's fantastic.
  Value
  This game will last FOREVER. LONGER than melee... and everybody knows just how long that is.
 
  
  
  I give Super Smash Bros Brawl (Wii) a 9.0/10.0
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ridley223
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game in the smash bros series. This game has great new characters like Wario and 
 Pit and Zero Suit Samus. The game has new trophies and a new adventure mode that is like a little 
 role- playing game. But best of all is the final smashes. Everyone has there own final smash that 
 either kills people or gives them a lot of Damage. And if you have internet for the wii, then you 
 can battle online with other people. I was also hoping for an online leaderboard which everyone 
 could be on. You can also customize taunts to what you want it to say. A great new feature of brawl 
 is the Creating a Stage. You have back rounds to choose from and when your done, you name it and 
 put on music that you want. The game has 300 pieces of music that you can listen too. If you have 
 a wii and internet, this is a great game to have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamingtrooper44
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Before I got this game (Super Smash Bros. Brawl) I thought it was going to be the best game I would 
 get for the wii fun exiting packed full of things to do and fun competitive online play. The characters 
 I saw I thought will fit in well and were exited to see how they play out and who were going to 
 be the exiting new unlockables for this new game.
  
  AFTER I GOT THE GAME
  
  Super smash bros. brawl was everything I thought it would be except for the online. The online 
 play in this game is VERY laggy you can't play super smash when it is laggy. I didn't like the 
 fact that you could only play with the people that are your friends. You should be able to play 
 worldwide.
  
  Now super smashes story mode is awesome it is so exiting what new characters your going to see 
 next and in the end all the characters come together which was great. I thought the cut scenes 
 were great to watch and I thought they were great. All of the characters had their own story behind 
 them and was great going to all the different scenes and playing all different characters. The 
 events in this game are great it is small little events that are fun to play just for a little 
 activity. 
  
  Super smash bros brawls quick play is so fun. You want to keep on playing to see what character 
 you might unlock next. All of the characters moves had allot of thought into them and allot of 
 possibility of moves to do. Every character has its own super smash, which I thought was a good 
 addition to the brawl. There is so many possibilities of characters to play with witch keeps on 
 bringing you back to play them. I like when sometimes when you beat something you achieve something 
 like a trophy or a track of music for you to add to you collection.
  
  I thought that the controls with the wii remote were not so great it didn't really play out well. 
 I used the Game Cube controller the whole time witch I think is the best way to play. The entire 
 controller was laid out great and was easy to play. I thought that all modes, trophies and everything 
 else in super smash bros braw was great and is a good game to add to the super smash series.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: free_roamer
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  So I can rate this game a billionty and four out of ten.
  
  If you haven't played this game, a huge chunk of life is missing from you. If you have a Wii, you 
 have Brawl. If you don't have Brawl but have a Wii, you are a strange person. If you don't have 
 either, go crouch in a corner. And sob.
  
  Sounds: 
  
  oh DAMN. Over 200 tracks and awesome hitting sounds. Where's my headphones -_~?
  
  Graphics:
 
  Don't need explaining. Go check up a cutscene on YouTube. That's all you need.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  36 characters with different skins and like a dozen moves each. There's something 
 for everyone. There are so many options, in my current 15 hours of play time, I still haven't used 
 them all.
  
  Design:
  
  You can use a GC controller. DAMN.
  
  Overall: Four hundred billionty and seven out of five. That's right. BUY IT.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryaznbanana9
Rating: 9
Date: May 1, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  An amazing-in-every-way game! It has a balanced character and stages roster. With a decent wifi 
 connection this game gets even better. This game is an awesome game dispite minor problems, such 
 as lagging issues due to bad connections now and then, difficult controls until you get used to 
 it, and constant addiction. Once you pick it up, its hard to put down. This spectacular game is 
 very enjoyable especially when playing the right people. A perfect party game! This game beats 
 its previous game by a thousand times! I can guarantee you this game is not hype and you will enjoy 
 this game! If/ When you get this game you will be playing for more than two hours! Once again I 
 highly recommend this game! So...... if you don't believe me go rent it at least and see for youself. 
 I bet you that you eventually will like, if not love, this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MexRoy10
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  This is the game everyone has been waiting and every Wii owner should have. I mean why have a Wii 
 and not play this game? That is insane! I can't believe how fun this game is I don't know anyone 
 who doesn't like this game. With the new characters it make Super Smash Bros. a better experience 
 and for Xbox 360 and PS3 owners it has Snake and Sonic ( great characters by the way) .
  
  Now for one the best things in the game is SMASH BALL'S!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Smash Ball's make 
 the game so much fun. It gives every character a bit more taste and has you try every single one 
 to see what their Special is. LIKE I SAID A MUST HAVE FOR WII OWNERS!!!!!!!
  I KNOW SOME FRIENDS THAT GOT THE WII ONLY BECAUSE OF THIS GAME, THAT IS CRAZY lol
  
  Good: 
 Everything GRAPHICS! GAME PLAY! CONTROLS! 
  
  Bad: Nothing except the online gets laggy sometimes but it is alright
  
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodclots99
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 1, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  The third of the series, Super Smash Bros Brawl. To be honest, this game was not as epic as i thought 
 it would be, definatly better then ssb and ssbm but thanks to one of the best parts of the game 
 the "SUBSPACE EMISSARY", that ruined it, only because if you beat it you get MOST of the characters (for 
 people who are trying to beat it take that as note. Anyway, this game also has a good side with 
 the new, special brawl (also in the old game but in this you can customize it) , the Subspace Emissary (it 
 still rocks) , awesome new characters, special secrets and awesome stages. The game can be played 
 using all the possible controllers for wii, wii remote and nunchuck, wiimote alone, gamecube controller, 
 and of course the classic controller. With its nifty control schemes this game. This game is too 
 easy like i said its not long enough, but it does have great graphics.
  
  Now for the hard part... the CHARACTERS!!!!
  
  The Veteran Fighters:
  Mario, Link, Kirby, 
 Pikachu,
  Fox, Samus, Zelda, Bowser,
  Donkey Kong, Yoshi, Peach, Ice Climbers 
  and Shiek
  
  Newcomers:
  Pit, Wario, Zero suit Samus, Ike,
  Pokemon Trainer, Diddy Kong, 
 MetaNight, Snake,
  Lucas, Sonic, King Dedede and Pikmin & Olimar
  
  SECRET Fighters:
  Ness, Marth, Luigi, Falco,
  Captain Falcon, Lucario, R. O. B, Mr. Game&Watch,
  Ganondorf, Jigglypuff, 
 Toon Link and Wolf
  
  Those are all the Characters.
  Now for gameplay. Mostly like the other game but instead for the wii remote and nunchuck you can 
 set it to shaking the wii remote for a smash attack. One of my Faviourite feature is probably how 
 you can set up your own controls, and the online mode which sometimes can be very bad though (it 
 gets choppy or laggy)
  
  Over all this game is Great but is brought down to a 8.5/10 because its not long enough and was 
 supposed to feel very epic. I don't even play it anymore, only sometimes but you must rent it first 
 before buying it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicmariolink
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  I love super smash bros. 
  It is one of the main reasons I bought a Wii.
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is just the the other two in essence, only revamped and better looking.
 
  
  Gameplay
  It's absolutely amazing. An easily accessible fighting system that can also be mastered to perfection 
 for expert players. The pace is incredibly fast and the chaos never stops. The characters have 
 been balanced better than ever before. Now, all the characters and all the moves have relevance, 
 and it's actually quite refreshing. New items, such as the smash ball, which is a special attack 
 that amounts to massive pwnag3, and the golden hammer may throw off the balance between a seasoned 
 vet and a new player, but those items can be turned off.
  The campaign mode was surprisingly entertaining. The game also has plenty of challenges and various 
 one player modes to keep you busy before your friends arrive.
  
  Graphics
  While this game doesn't have stunning graphics, it is still very good for the Wii, and the character 
 models are pleasing to the eye.
  
  Sound
  What's better than beating DK up with a boomering after getting hit with a FALCON PAAAAAANCH? Doing 
 the same thing while listening to some great remixes of the best video game songs of all time, 
 that's what.
  Oh, and the sound fx in the game are decent, although that pokemon trainer gets pretty anoying, 
 so I just stay Charizard and rock-face people. 
  
  Online
  Horrible. Don't do it!
  It feels like a bunch of bots. Multiplayer is what makes this game, but Nintendo really dropped 
 the ball on online play here.
  
  Replay Value
  I'll be playing this untill my WII burns out.
  
  Wrap-up
  Get this game. Get it for nostalgia, 
 or for the fighting, or to beat upo your grandma, but just get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snowboarder99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  If you've ever played a Super Smash Bros game, you know what to expect, so I'm just going to talk 
 about the new things presented in this game...
  
  
  1) Subspace Emissary -- Unlike many others, I found this part of the game to be very fun... at first. 
 When I first started playing this, it was really fun, and the cut scenes were amazing. Then I got 
 about 4-5 hours in and it felt like it overstayed it's welcome, but it was still fairly fun. I 
 won't ruin it for you, but when I later got to one point in the game, I hated it. I recommend playing 
 through this once because it can be fun, the cut scenes are fantastic, and it's a good way of unlocking 
 almost all the characters in the game. 6.5/10
  
  
  2) New characters -- This time around there are much more characters to play as. It is funny looking 
 at Brawl's characters list and then looking at the original Super Smash Bros' character list. Some 
 of the characters seem to be clones, but they have some characteristics that set them apart from 
 their clones. The newcomers in this game are definitely where this game shines. 10/10
  
  
  3) Final Smash -- Although it is not technically the "final" smash, it is certainly a devastating 
 one. It is fun using all of the character's final smashes and getting good at the ones that take 
 some skill. You unlock your final smash by destroying a "smash ball" that appears onscreen. The 
 only problem is, the smash balls come way to often. I played in a game where they seemed to come 
 every 1-2 minutes and to make it worse, characters would re-spawn with their final smash power. 
 In my opinion, these smash balls should be a rare occurrence considering they have so much power. 
 It can get very annoying having them come very often that I sometimes find myself turning them 
 off. 8/10
  
  
  4) Maps -- The maps this time around are pretty good. You'll most certainly find a few favorites. 
 On the down side, there are a few really bad maps. Some of the best melee stages make a return 
 in this game, including my favorite, Corneria. In addition to all this, there is a new stage builder 
 feature. This allows you to easily make a map just the way you like it. It does feel fairly limited, 
 but I found it to be a great way to create some of the stages I loved in the original Super Smash 
 Bros. 9.5/10
  
  
  5) Online -- Unfortunately, this is where Brawl falls short. Playing Brawl online with anyone in 
 the world sounds like a great idea, and it is. Well it doesn't work. If you are lucky enough to 
 get into a game, chances are you going to to lag... really bad. Playing with friends using friend 
 codes seems to work better but it's certainly not perfect. Another downer is you can't play user-created 
 maps online. Not much else to say here. 4.5/10
  
  
  6) Unlockables -- In addition to unlocking characters and maps, there are plenty of other things 
 to unlock. This includes trophies, stickers, music, old-school game demos and more. Trying to unlock 
 all of these things will certainly add replayability to this game, not that it needs it anyways. 
 10/10
  
  All in all, this game is great and should not be missed out by any Wii owner. Don't want a Wii? 
 Go to a friends house that does and play with him, because nothing beats playing this game with 
 your friends locally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jay3695
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is as flawless as they come with all the new characters along with the old it is the 
 halo 3 of nintendo. Brawl brings the absolute best nintendo characters to the arena with the best 
 multiplayer action i've seen in a long while. This smash bros. is easily far better than the first 
 two, i say this because of its story mode and single play instead of just a few battles it comes 
 with an actual complete set up. SSBB is the best nintendo game since well mario galaxy or paper 
 mario this game is simply amazing. It has the biggest and best line up of characters anyones ever 
 seen i don't care who you are. SSBB gives hours on end of multiplayer action that just doesn't 
 get old. Melee never got old and neither will Brawl so have fun defeating the subspace emissary 
 and playing online. SSBB is worth even more then what you have to pay for it, so i'm saying it's 
 worth buying not just renting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZenesisX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo Mascots from all over fight once again as well as a whole bunch of new editions. What 
 makes this installment even better is that it has a storyline which the previous games lacked. 
 In this game Mario and many other mascots fight their way in the new Subspace Emissary. They must 
 stop whoever is evading their lands and defeat the new threat while meeting up with new allies 
 along their Journey. The Storyline shouldnt take too long to beat but it is a new interesting feature 
 that adds even more substance to the game. As i will describe and critique the game in the following 
 paragraphs to help you better understand everything. 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay as before is perfect. the fighting system is well balanced, the controls 
 are easy to use and to learn. If for some reason you dont like the controls of the wiimote the 
 game allows for 3 alternative controllers for gameplay. you can play veteran style and use the 
 gamecube controller, you can use the new wii classic controller, or just use the wiimote with or 
 without the nunchuck. Choose whatever is most comfortable with you, but for me personally, i prefer 
 the gamcube controller. Those who are new to the series, let me explain some of the rules to you. 
 The main objective of any battle in this game is different from most other fighting games. What 
 you must do is knock your opponent off of the screen to get a point, the one with the most point 
 in the end wins. As before each character has 4 special moves that make each character unique to 
 one another but a newly added move is now the Final Smash, a powerful attack that will help you 
 wipe out your competition in the process. Thats all you really need to know to play this game of 
 course it takes skills and tactics to win the most points in the end, but i leave that up to you 
 to learn on your own.
  
  Features: This game has alot of new features and modes added onto it to make it an even more action 
 packed game. You still have classic mode which fans of the game series will sure to enjoy, a online 
 feature, target practice, the new multi man mode, the Home run contest, Event mode, the new stage 
 builder mode, and as i stated before the Subspace Emissary mode. Other features you get are such 
 things as masterpieces from the history of Nintendo like Metriod, Super Mario Bros, The legend 
 of Zelda and many more original titles.
  
  Graphics: the graphics on this game are actually really good for a wii game, infact it looks amazing. 
 You can see alot of time was put into this game especially when it comes to the cutscenes. Its 
 not much else ot say about the Graphics, all the characters look great and revamped, no complaints 
 at all here.
  
  Sound: The sound on this game is all around good. It has a huge variety of music, which will sure 
 to keep you entertained as you fight. Soundtracks from all over are included in so dont worry about 
 not enough songs being in it cause their are alot.
  
  Value: I can easily say the value in this game is extremely high, with all the new features and 
 stuff will keep you interested in this game for years to come, just like melee did. Replay value 
 is high as well with the game having over 35 playable characters, trophies to collect and its new 
 and addicting online feature will have you gaming hours on end. This is the ultimate multiplayer 
 game.
  
  Overall, this game does much to keep fans interested and attract new ones as well. The game has 
 a nice storyline, Graphics are impressive, Soundtracks are nothing short of miraculous, replay 
 value is unbelievable high. If you have a Wii then this game is a must have, i recommend this to 
 everyone, it is worth the pickup. I really enjoyed playing this game and im sure you will too. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 30, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  Intro - One of my problems with review sites is that it always seems that reviewers give into the 
 hype. I'm not trying to make myself sound special in anyway. I to have fallen into the inauspicious 
 realm of hype. I'm not immune to its lore or clouding shadow which persuades automatic superiority 
 due to its new installment. The symptoms have been there since the beginning of the Madden series 
 in the PS2 era. This is why I've waited so long to review Brawl. I wanted the experience to soak 
 in; I wanted to objectfully rate all of the games aspects. The results maybe shocking to some; 
 I'm sure by the end of this review: women will cry, babies will have wished for abortion and dogs 
 will not have gone to heaven. Please, bare with my horrible intro to see the true face of smash 
 after the hype is whipped off. 
  
  Features - Smash is littered with features, in a good way. First, let me start with my favorite 
 portion of smash the single player experience. What?? It isn't the multiplayer brawls with 3 other 
 friends, NO! The single player experience has been shaked and baked to go twenty levels beyond
 
  any fighting game. The results are a mixture of Mortal Kombat's Quest single player meets an old 
 school side scrolling 2D game. Let me say, that the experience though enjoyable begins to wear 
 out its welcome at the very end. Specifically, the last main maze before the final fight; it essentially 
 makes you run through the entire game a second time. It burns me
  to the very core when developers artificially extend the length of a game by forcing the user to 
 run through the same levels and enemies a second time. It isn't clever or fun and it simply shows 
 how lazy designers get when they begin to run out of ideas. Could you imagine any other situation 
 in life were thats acceptable!! "Sir, I'm going to have to ask you to redo your exam; 
  I know, I know you already ran through it and you know exactly whats going to happen but I just 
 feel like wasting a lit bit more of your time so get to it!" Why can't awesome aspects of life 
 call for seconds like sex or cake!! Now, this Subspace emissary which is what Nintendo calls it, 
 I call it adventure mode isn't the only mode available. Classic mode is what you've come to know 
 and love of all the Smash games. For you noobies out there, classic mode allows you to run thru 
 a handful of characters with fight specific objectives: take on Zelda and Ganondorf, defeat 20 
 yoshis, destroy a giant hand the standard fighting game stuff. Also returning from Melee is the
 
  arena specific objectives and missions. Again, I love these different game types; arena mode includes 
 home run contest, survival: were you can take on 10, 100 and an infinite amount of enemies. Missions 
 are just like classic mode levels but the objectives are even more specific: defeat donkey kong 
 using diddy kong, take on zelda, Link and ganondork using Mario, etcetera. 
  
  Now on the multiplayer side it's essentially, the single player experience just way more frustrating 
 and laggy. I will admit at first I was so excited playing against my friends online. I played melee 
 so long that I wanted 
  to prove to them that I would dominate them in the online arena. The problem is lag reduced my 
 ability to dominate. The idea is greater than the actually execution unfortunately. Brawl sucks 
 online; plain and simple, no other game would have gotten the scores smash did with such a horrible 
 online system. 10 years ago this game would have been the god 
  sent product the industry is always looking to place on its 5 second pedestal of glory. The standards 
 have reached a point were online gaming isn't an extra add-on but an essential feature. Unless 
 the game
  is something as presentationally appealing as Bioshock; there is no reason for it not to have online 
 play. Honestly, I really wouldn't care so much of the online experience if Metroid 3 would have 
 had an online component like Nintendo originally said. By eliminating online multiplayer for M3 
 they placed a bigger influence on smash's online which greatly under delivers. The remaining features 
 include demos of old school games, a level editor and an archive of every single trophy collected. 
 The value of these extras are strictly based on how much time and effort a given user is will to 
 place into unlocking every trophy or create a new level to place online. (Through a specific site, 
 you can't directly download maps from different users. WHY NINTENDO WHY!!!) Overall, there is enough 
 content to last years to come; unfortunately this game doesn't gain anything terribly new aside 
 from new third party characters like sonic, snake and online play which is offal. 
  
  Presentation - Ok, did I fall into a well for a couple years or something but what is it with these 
 massive flash looking user interfaces that Nintendo is using now. I understand they are trying 
 to appeal to an older audience be 
  what the h, e double hockey stick is going on!! Does every Wii owner have glaucoma or something!! 
 I don't like these flash looking generic interfaces.. where is the creativity, wheres the new innovative 
 interfaces that don't look like they were made by some crossed eyed college student during his 
 lunch break. Anyways, it really isn't anything big but come on; Nintendo in my book has always 
 stood for new creative games that expand every component of a game!!
  
  Story - Ok, so Zelda and peach are just hanging out taking in the sun at their local brawl stadium 
 when Mario and Kirby start throwing down. When out of no were a massive ship with purple exhaust 
 fumes which probably triple the effects of global warning; just starts pooping out these purple 
 soldiers that just absolutely hate Mario and the gang!! If this sounds completely ridiculous and 
 random thats because it is; but I have to say I'm extremely impress that Nintendo created such 
 a random and diverse story. Seeing Mario Team up with Link, Kirby and Metalknight is something
 
  that couldn't and wouldn't be done by another developer. Nintendo has some massive marbles; I 
 could see many fans feeling kind of weird in their funny parts when experiencing this convoluted 
 story but it works. The presentation is another diamond in the rough; every single cutscene looks 
 beautiful and is extremely entertaining!! Online play - (NO JOKE NINTENDO HAS ONLINE PLAY NOW.... even 
 though it's the laggiest thing in the world)
  
  Gameplay - Usually, the longest section of my reviews are in the gameplay department. The problem 
 is that I don't really have much to say since brawl is basically identical to Melee. The only differences 
 consist of items and the
  smash ball which acts as a final move; an awesome final move but still just a final move. I can 
 throw in some cliche remarks like: "If it ain't broke don't fix it!! Stick with what works.. blah.. blah!!" 
 The bottom line is that
  though the formula has provent successful in the past; I'm not so such it will last another iteration. 
 Especially, if Nintendo takes the approach they did with ninty different control schemes. Which 
 may seem like a fan service but at the end of the day it means that the Wii remote really isn't 
 build with tradition games in mind. Now, don't get me wrong the option to have more control scheme 
 is definitely a good thing but I personally believe it takes away from the hold Wii experience 
 and makes it seem like a washed out affair. I mean it's already bad enough that most games look 
 and play like cube ports but allow these different control schemes just proves that this system 
 is only a handful of wikipedia changes away from being a gamecube. I don't gamecube 1.5 games I 
 want Wii games; I want games
  that use the Wiimote in new and innovative ways not bullet points gimmicks. Maybe my expectation 
 for the Wii are to high but personally the only game that has actually lived up to its hype so 
 far is Super Mario Galaxy. 
  
  Sound - The musical score is breath taking; from the opening cinematic to the scrolling credits 
 the music never lets up. My personal favor tweak to the sound track is the altered orignial versions 
 of famous Nintendo doundtracks. The sound effects are just as amazing; david hayter does the voice 
 for snake, mario and wario all fit perfectly. Each stage sounds identical to its original counterpart; 
 even the pic-chat stage from the DS sounds identical. The simple fact is listening to the game 
 is just as fun as playing it!! 
  
  Conclusion - I know tons of people will probably hate me for this review but it simply has to be 
 said. This game isn't as awesome as we think it's; the problem stems from our own mind playing 
 tricks on us. We imagine a lag free online battle with 3 other friends; but the execution just 
 isn't there. We imagine a new innovative control scheme that takes advantage of the Wii's so called 
 new "power" but essentially get a slightly upgraded cube game. The reason why I didn't have a graphics 
 section in my review is there isn't anything to talk about graphically because I'm still not convinced 
 that the graphics couldn't be done on the cube. Remember boys and girls, melee was released very 
 very early in the cubes life cycle. A lot of time has passed since that game was released and I'm 
 not entirely sure that Brawl wasn't 
  created on a cube to beginning with and just later ported over!! At the end of the day, Brawl is 
 polished and by no means a terrible game but it isn't the 9.9 that review sites have been giving 
 it. It's a solid entry in the series
  but aside from playing with sonic and snake nothing has really changed; the only reason in my opinion 
 why this series is blasted so hard is the iterations between each game seems to be the life cycle 
 of a system. If you're a Smash fan get it; if you love Nintendo's wealth of characters get it; 
 if you're looking for a sweet game to play on the wii get!! Just don't give into the hype machine!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garrison_Ford
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  *** SUPER SMASH BROS. BRAWL ***
  
  THE GOOD 
  -Excellent multiplayer mode
  -Excellent music
  -Great sound effects
  -Great graphics
  -Lots of customization
  -Multiple 
 controller schemes is a nice touch
  -The Subspace Emissary supports two players
  -Most of the characters are well-balanced
  -The map editor is a cool new feature
  -Huge selection 
 of characters and items
  -Great level design in Subspace and most of the multiplayer levels
  -Plenty of replay value
 
  
  THE BAD
  -The online is a huge disappointment
  -Some of the newer levels are frustrating
  -Playing Subspace Emissary as player two can get annoying 
 in some parts
  
  OVERVIEW
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl had a lot of hype before it was released and I think that this game did 
 live up to the hype. SSBB took all the good things from Super Smash Bros. Melee, fixed the bad 
 things, and added new stuff. SSBM relied mostly on the great multiplayer mode but now SSBB has 
 the same great multiplayer mode but also a good single player mode called the Subspace Emissary. 
 Along with Subspace Emissary you'll be able to play some of the old solo games like the Home Run 
 Contest, Break the Targets, Classic single player and much more. There is plenty to do in this 
 Smash Brothers so you'll get your money's worth with the replay value.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  There are plenty of things to do in this game either by yourself or with others. From the main 
 menu you have the option to go to the solo section, group section, vault, Wi-Fi, options, and the 
 data section. In the solo section you have the option to do the following things: The Subspace 
 Emissary, All-star mode, Training, Classic Single player, Stadium, and Events. In the Subspace 
 Emissary, which is probably considered the main solo game, you and a friend can go through the 
 story for SSBB. The story itself is a little weird but you get a chance to play as all the characters 
 in the game. Most of the stages are played like a regular platformer but there are some parts in 
 the game where the screen is fixed (which usually means a boss fight) . This part of the game takes 
 about 8 - 10 hours to complete and the fact that it is 2 player is a nice touch. Unfortunately, 
 the camera only follows the first player so second player gets "left in the dust" and off the screen 
 a lot of the time. If the second player gets to far away from the first player the game will teleport 
 that character to the first player. After every stage there is a cut-scene with some story. None 
 of the characters talk so all the cut-scenes are actions only. 
  
  The All-star mode in the solo section lets you play as anyone in your quest to defeat every character 
 with only one life. Between fights you get a break and have the option to use one of your three 
 heart containers. So, use them wisely. The Training mode lets you practice with any unlocked character. 
 Plus, you can pick your "punching bag" character to perform your attacks on. The classic mode is 
 just like the solo game in Super Smash Bros. Melee. Here you select a character and play against 
 the computer just like in the multiplayer mode. After a few matches there are bonus Target Smash 
 games and then the Master Hand awaits you at the end.
  
  The Stadium has a bunch of fun mini-games to challenge yourself. The Target Smash, Home-Run Contest 
 and Multi-Man fights are here just like in SSBM with some new editions like the Endless Brawl and 
 Boss Battle Brawl. In the Boss Battle Brawl, you'll get to face all the bosses from the Subspace 
 Emissary and Classic mode. Lastly, the solo section contains the event matches just like Melee. 
 Here you'll either get to select your character or use the default as you try to complete the objective 
 for each event.
  
  The solo portion of the game has plenty of fun things to do but so does the group section. In the 
 group section you can customize your brawl with up to 4 people or computer players. You have the 
 option to do a free-for-all or team game in three different types of matches like stock (play with 
 a set amount of lives) , coin (battle to collect coins) and time (fighting against the clock) . This 
 is where the previous Smash Brother games have excelled and Brawl excels and then some. There is 
 complete customization over almost every aspect of the match. You can set certain things like the 
 difficulty of the computer players, toggle items to appear in the match and the frequency of items 
 appearing. Along with playing in a normal brawl you have the option to setup a tournament or rotation 
 mode if you have more than 4 people. Also, just like in Melee, you can enter in your name to keep 
 track of your stats and the button configuration per controller. The group section is great for 
 parties and is where you'll likely spend most of your time, in this game, with friends.
  
  Speaking of controller schemes, Brawl gives you the chance to play with the Classic Controller, 
 Wii Remote only, Wii Remote and Nunchuk and the GameCube controller. Each of the controller schemes 
 work well with the game and are completely customizable. There is even an option to use the motion 
 sensors in the Wii Remote to perform attacks.
  
  The next section that you can enter, from the main menu, is the Vault. Here you can look at your 
 collected trophies and sticker achievements, use the Stage Builder, view replays, listen to music 
 and look at pictures taken in matches. The Stage Builder is the notable for this section and a 
 great new feature for the Smash Brothers series. In the Stage Builder you can create your own battle 
 arena. You're not given a lot of material to work with but you are able to create some elaborate 
 levels. Also, you have the option to enter your created stage at anytime to test things out. 
 
  
  The next section is the Wi-Fi or internet game section. This could have been awesome but the online 
 play is very "bare bones" in quality. You only have the option to play in a team or free-for-all 
 timed game. You can play with friends or with random people but there isn't a way to communicate 
 with the people you are brawling with, which sucks. Also, the lag for the game is terrible. Disconnects 
 happen often and with the lagged game play, it is almost impossible to attack with accuracy. Again, 
 the online mode is very disappointing. 
  
  The last section on the main menu is for the Options and Data. Here you can change all the aspects 
 of the game like the controls, sound, and rumble settings. Then you can view all the statistics 
 that each Brawl character or user has accumulated. Again there is a lot to view here and plenty 
 to brag about with your friends.
  
  The character selection is the largest and best ever in the Smash series. Most of your favorite 
 characters from the previous games are back with some new faces like Ike, Pit, and Metaknight. 
 Unlike Melee, the characters in Brawl are well balanced which makes using all the characters fun 
 to use without putting yourself at a disadvantage. Along with a great character selection, Brawl 
 offers a lot of the same items from before plus some new items like the Final Smash Ball. Once 
 your character breaks the ball he/she has the power to unleash a final smash attack. Everybody 
 has a different and unique attack which can completely alter the outcome of a match. Some of the 
 old levels are back along with some new ones. For the most part the level design is very well done 
 but there are a few of the newer levels that are frustrating to play on.
  
  GRAPHICS
  For the Nintendo Wii, the visuals for this game are very good. The character and level designs 
 have a lot of nice detail. The graphics really enhance the quality of the game play in Brawl.
 
  
  SOUND
  The music for the game is incredible. Since there are a bunch of playable characters, there is 
 a good variety of music from each of there respective games. Plus the sound effects are just as 
 good, if not better, as Melee.
  
  CONCLUSION
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is an awesome game with tons of replay value. With a huge character selection 
 and plenty of things to do you'll find it pretty easy to spend lots of hours playing this game. 
 Plus, with the huge customizable option, the variety will seem endless. I would recommend this 
 game to anyone from a beginner to an expert gamer. Nintendo put a lot of time into this game and 
 it does live up to the hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockwii13
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 5:15 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. has been a hit series in gaming since "Super Smash Bros." release for the N64 
 in April, 1999. Then came the revolutionary "Super Smash Bros. Melee" that broke gaming sales records 
 and is certainly still one of the best games out there. Nearly eight years later, "Super Smash 
 Bros. Brawl" has finally come to us after all the waiting and release date postponing, and it is 
 certainly the king of the gaming universe!
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  Super Smash Bros. isn't your average fighter. It has high-paced action
  and flawless gameplay. 
 It's the absolute greatest game to play at a party. With four different styles of gameplay, anyone 
 can find a control scheme that fits them. This 3-D fighter has you smashing people across the screen, 
 smacking them high in the air, and blasting them to oblivion with the new Smash Ball. A Smash Ball 
 is an item that is unique to each character, and whoever breaks it open gets to unleash their own 
 Final Smash. ( Though Fox, Falco, and Wolf's are almost the same.) And there are more zany items 
 that are familiar from games such as Super Mario, Donkey Kong, Star Fox and many more. Also, for 
 the first time in Smash Bros. history, there's online play! The online play is great, but it has 
 one setback: LAG. You can't go an online match without lag. Still, the regular gameplay is better 
 ,and the online lag couldn't possibly bring the score down.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  Now you might be wondering why I gave the graphics section a 10, because you've probably seen the 
 insane graphics of games such as "Assassin's Creed." Well, I'm basing this off of graphics for 
 the Wii. This game has amazing visuals! The characters a very detailed, and the stages are just..... 
 Wow!
  The explosions, electric shocks, and the Final Smashes look beautiful!
  With vivid and clear colors, this game definatly has the best graphics for Wii.
  
  Music/Sound:10/10
 
  
  This game has an outstanding soundtrack! The music is composed wonderfully! Music from the universe 
 of Nintendo is put in here. Even Wii Sports and Brain Age melodies are in there. With 250+ pieces 
 of music, it has the best gaming soundtrack to be made yet. You don't start out with them all, 
 though. You'll have to get CDs to get new pieces of music. The sound effects are also incredibly 
 good.
  
  Value/Variety: 10/10
  
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl has solid unlockables, and plenty to do. The game features a total of 39 
 characters to play as, and has 41 stages to fight at. And if you get tired of these stages, or 
 just want to be creative, you can use the new Stage Builder mode to assemble yor own stage to duke 
 it out on. Plus, there is the improved adventure mode "The Subspace Emissary", which will take 
 at the least seven hours to beat and longer to get all the orange boxes, if you're shooting for 
 100%. Then are are the challenges, in which you must meet a certain requirement to unlock new stages, 
 stickers, trophies, and CDs. Trust me, you couldn't beat all of them if you stay up, non stop for 
 2 weeks. You'll definately get your moneys worth out of this game. I would've happily payed $100 
 for it.
  
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is the greatest game in history. It is reason enough to go buy a Wii and 
 purchase a copy right now. If you don't have this game, you haven't lived, for this is a piece 
 of Heaven on Earth that God has sent to us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimGravy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  First things first me being a fan of this game since the old N64 days I just have to say this game 
 blows the past two installments out of the water for me. For starters the single player would be 
 the worst part of this game but it is still solid i enjoyed for the most part but when ya count 
 all the little things u can unlock by yourself and the online component this game is always good 
 to go with or without friends. Now to the real thing the multiplayer in this game is freaking awesome 
 getting 4 people in a room playing this is some of the most fun you will have. The online was a 
 great feature but in the end i wish it was more fleshed out. no talking long codes for friends 
 and not much control in finding matches just hop in the lobby and wait. in the end its a great 
 game and a must buy for Wii owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricko101
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 28, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  The third installment to the Smash Bros. franchise. It brings a bunch of new features to the table. 
 A new, entertaining way to get trophies. A stage maker. Achievements, which unlock more in-game 
 material. 30 characters to choose from ranging from Mario to Sonic. This game is great for multi-player. 
 The co-op modes are great. But other than that it's the same old thing. The physics are much better 
 then than melee. Wall jumping is more limited. The powerhouses are toned down but in my best opinion 
 Ike is the biggest powerhouse. Sonic destroys Shiek. Snake needs a knife. King Dedede sux more 
 than he actually can (for all you kirby fans) . The "Final Smash" abilities are awesome. It sux 
 that Fox, Wolf, and Falco all have the same one though. Events are challenging and fun. The story 
 mode is really catches my attention. I don't want to spoil anything else. Overall you can teach 
 a old dog new tricks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tay22_j3tt
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 28, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  I had been waiting for the release of this game for about 3 years. i bought it opening day and 
 was not dissapointed at all. it is truly one of the greatest games i have ever played. the amount 
 of characters and levels in it is just amazing. the wifi is very user friendly and it isnt a dissapointment.. although 
 it is laggy. custom levels couldve been done better, but with so much content and goodies it is 
 really is hard to complain. the subspace emissary was a good idea. it is really long and can keep 
 you busy for a while. and unlocking all the characters will add more fun. but just a simple 4 man 
 brawl is what makes the game the best. playing with 3 of your friends is the best. this game isnt 
 a game that you have to play forever in order to be good. it is set so that a newcomer can beat 
 a veteran first try. this is the game that is to be played for years to come. but my review cant 
 even describ ehow amazing it is, you have to play it to know. if you own a wii go and buy it. now. 
 it should keep you occupied for a while. incredible. period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is the Wii's must buy game of 2008. Sure, Mario Kart Wii is looking fantastic, 
 and Wii Fit will probably be fun for the entire family, but when it comes to it Brawl is Nintendo's 
 only game that could compete with Gears 2 and GTA4. Luckily, Brawl doesn't dissapoint.
  
  Gameplay in Brawl is pretty much the same as it has ever been: simple, accessable, and fun enough 
 to last (literally) for years. The big change up this time around is the different control schemes. 
 The Wii remote, the remote and nunchuck, the classic controller, and a GC controller are all viable 
 options, although the remote by itself is clearly the weakest option available. Some people have 
 lamented the remote + nunchuck control scheme as well, but because I lack a GC or classic controller, 
 I have been forced to adapt. I find it safe to say that, after a brief period of adjustment, the 
 remote and nunchuck are perfectly viable options, and I often beat my GC controller-weilding friend. 
 
  
  A few new play modes have been added to the Smash experience as well. The biggest addition is the 
 Subspace Emissary mode, which is a single player or co-op story mode. You can unlock almost all 
 of the characters in a play through, but it seems more rewarding to get them elsewhere. SE mode 
 is a fun distraction from the chaos that is the multiplayer modes, but overall it's not quite as 
 good as the rest of the game. Still, it's fun enough to warrant playing for the 7-8 hours it'll 
 take to beat it, and the cutscenes look amazing. Another major addition is the online modes. Playing 
 online against strangers rarely works at all, and even when it does, it's pretty laggy. Online 
 with friends, on the other hand, is a bit better. It still suffers from lag, but usually not a 
 ton of lag. As with all other Nintendo games, the "with friends" option also adds more customization 
 options such as messages that you can send via word bubbles to opponents. Online with friends is 
 a lot of fun if there's nobody sitting right next to you, but local play is where it's at. 
  
  The Brawl mode, SSBB's main multiplayer mode, is a lot like Melee's. Up to four players, human 
 or computer, can participate in the chaos. There are tons of new stages, as well as classic levels 
 and custom levels (more on that later.) New characters have been added, bringing the total up to 
 the mid thrities, and most of them are very well balanced. There are a few moves, such as Pit's 
 B left/right, that can seem a little cheap. Finally, as dissapointing as it is to say, Snake is 
 virtually useless. He's more of a running gag than anything else, and I've only seen one player 
 actually do well with him. Sonic, on the other hand, won't dissapoint speed addicts (lolz) such 
 as myself. He is awesome.
  
  In addition to the main modes, there are collectable stickers and trophies, the trophy shooting 
 minigame, home fun contests, custom levels, special brawls, multi-man brawls, challenges, boss 
 rush mode, classic mode, and more to master, as well as pictures and replay videos to take. Going 
 into details on all of these would take more time than I have, but I will touch on the custom level 
 editor because I was a bit dissapointed by it. Although you will eventually unlock more parts for 
 your levels, the editor still lacks a few features that are usually taken for granted, such as 
 the ability to rotate or resize objects. As it stands, the level editor is more of a distraction 
 that can yield a few gems regardless of its limitations. 
  
  Overall, Brawl is so stuffed with content that it's amazing it could all fit on one dual layered 
 DVD. Brawl has more content than anything I've seen on a Blu-Ray disc, and the graphics are pretty 
 good for a Wii game, to boot. The textures and fire effects are especially improved from its predecessor. 
 Brawl's sound fares even better, featuring dozens upon dozens of classic songs from multiple renowned 
 composers. 
  
  Brawl is an early candidate for game of the year '08. If you have brothers, sisters, or friends, 
 you simply must play this. If you lack the aforementioned assets, you have bigger things to worry 
 about.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RockstarDX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Now what do I have to say for Brawl? Many things. One, it's awesome. Two, it's awesome. Three, 
 IT ROCKS. Heh heh. Brawl deserves all the hype it has gotten. It's probably the best game Nintendo 
 have ever made. Yep, maybe even the best game ever. To me, it is. It might not be to majority of 
 people, but it defiantly is up there.
  
  The game includes numerous new features the first two never had. Let's go over Subspace first. 
 The Subspace feature is a story mode. Yep, we finally have our favorite Nintendo characters interacting 
 with each other through story too. The story is very simple. There are good guys and bad guys. 
 The bad guys are people like Wario and Bowser. And they try to defeat heroes to turnt hem into 
 trophies. While the heroes try to stop them. At the end though, they all work together to defeat 
 the true enemy. The one behind all of this. And no, it's not that fat green robot.
  
  The Subspace is actually the only disappointing part of the game. It's one of the only things in 
 Brawl that would disappoint you. The script first of all is too simple. Would it be hard to make 
 the characters say one thing? At least some text would be nice. Because of its simple script, I 
 barely got interested in the story. Too bad too. Because having all Nintendo characters together 
 would make a very interesting story.
  
  The gameplay is not as bad as the story. But still. Gameplay is actually decent to tell the truth. 
 But it gets very boring. I mean it. You'll be rushing to finish the Subspace just to unlock Sonic. 
 It's fun at first but it gets too repetitive. Maybe Nintendo could've made each level more different. 
 It would've helped a little. If there's a sequel, I hope they don't use this type of gameplay.
 
  
  So overall, the Subspace really isn't all that. The cutscenes are what they appear to be however. 
 GORGEOUS. And it's in that style in every cutscene. Even better. But besides it's cutscenes, Subspace 
 is a disappointment. But don't worry. This still is the best game ever. Subspace is only like 10% 
 on the game because it's almost completely optional. The only reason you'd want to finish it is 
 for Sonic. You can unlock everything else the fun way.
  
  That's right people. The brawling. The main focus of the series will always be the fast paced action 
 filled fighting. You don't want to miss a second of it. The game has a bigger roster then ever. 
 It's 35 total characters. Yep, THIRTY FIVE. And alot of them control differently, You should be 
 able to find a character that fits you. The game even includes two third party characters. First 
 one is Snake. Although I have no idea why Snake is in there since he's mainly a Sony exclusive 
 with SOME Nintendo games. And of course the beloved blue hedgehog, Sonic.
  
  The gameplay itself actually stayed the same mostly. With some new additions like assist trophies 
 and smash balls. Smash Balls are little floating balls that appear randomly in levels. If you break 
 it open, you can activate your character's final smash. All final smashes are very unique. Most 
 of them control differently and represent the character's powers quite well. They all are useful 
 in certain areas too. Like Peach's smash. It may not pack the punch but you can easily refill your 
 health eating those fruits. Assist trophies are basically like Pokemon. Only that what comes out 
 of them are characters from all the series in the game. And their affect is usually more helpful.
 
  
  The stages are all designed beautifully. And they all have special features to them too. Like how 
 Mushroomy Kingdom is a moving stage. As if you were actually playing the real stage. Only fighting 
 instead. Each stage is quite different. There's moving stages, simple stages, large stages, difficult 
 stages, and mysterious stages. They are all very good. But if you aren't satisfied, you can play 
 some of Melee's stages OR make your OWN stages! Using the stage builder.
  
  The graphics are some of the best for the Wii. The game takes full potential of the Wii's graphical 
 capabilities. They are just stunning. More than Galaxy! You might just want to stare at the graphics 
 for an hour. If you have the patience that is. The menus are all greatly designed too. They fit 
 the theme of the game. The sound is just as good too. It's very varied and should attract any music 
 lovers. From its formal theme to the rock n' roll Open Your Heart. The music is very varied and 
 should appeal to anyone.
  
  There's ALOT to do in this game. More than all I've explained here. But I'm going to let you guys 
 go buy the game and see them all for yourself. One I can mention is online. Although online isn't 
 as good as it should've been. The game still rocks overall. And if you wanted to buy a game out 
 of hundreds of choices, Brawl is the definite answer. Now excuse me as I go and kick Mario's butt 
 with Sonic in Brawl. *shot* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solideagle13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  This is my first peek into the Super Smash Bros. realm besides playing a couple rounds on N64. 
 First off, fanboys, don't get mad at me. Despite it's hype, Super Smash Bros. Brawl isn't perfect. 
 I admit, it is a pretty awesome game though. 
  
  Graphics: For a game like this, the graphics aren't a mandatory thing. They are alright but definitely 
 not up to standard visuals you would see elsewhere. 7.5/10
  
  Sound: The sound effects are pretty cool. There are little sound bytes from past games which add 
 to the variety and novelty of the game. Although, there is not really anything too spectacular. 
 8/10
  
  Gameplay: Classic is really fun and addicting. Multiplayer games can last hours which add to the 
 fun of the game. My only fault is Adventure Mode. In my own opinion, it is long and tedious and 
 monotonous. Unfortunately, I'm only playing this mode because this is the easiest way to unlock 
 characters. 8/10
  
  Characters: The characters range from a variety of games including Mario, Snake, and Link. Each 
 person has their own abilities giving you a new experience every time. 9.5/10
  
  Overall, SSBB has saved me from leaving my Wii attracting dust. I have played it for awhile and 
 have been enjoying it. This is a classic that you can't not have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wywern271
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 28, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl is one of the best games that i have ever played, its simply amazing but 
 it still have some problems so im going to talk about them and im going to talk about well, Super 
 Smash Bros Brawl is one of the most popular games, thats for sure, but it still has some problems, 
 one is the internet consection, that is one of the worst i have ever seen, the connection is sometimes 
 very slow and you cant play like you always wanted to.
  
  Super Smash Bros Brawl has too much othr thing but they are not bad, they are really good, some 
 are all the characters you have, there are a lot to choose and thats simply amazing especially 
 for the 2 newcomers sonic and snake and so much other things, other good thing is the stage builder, 
 itis great , you can make your own stage but you havelimits, you cant finish it like you wantbut 
 still this games is one of the greatest games ever created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tikiz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  Pros: Great graphics and excellent music | Lots of unlockables characters and stages | Toon Link 
 | Subspace Emissary is a fun, lengthy game | Toon Link | Sound quality has improved greatly over 
 Melee | Did I mention Toon Link?
  
  Cons: Online is disappointing | So is the stage editor | Lots of characters, but only a few that 
 I actually care to use.
  
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl, one of the most hyped games of 2007 is here. One thing is for sure; it 
 didn't disappoint. Despite the stage editor being boring and online being kinda lame, the game 
 is as good as we all expected. The thing that really made the game worthwhile to me was the Subspace 
 Emmisary. It dominates Melee's crappy adventure mode. Instead of having like, 3 boring levels, 
 there are about 30 or something levels, and you unlock characters as you go along. Another thing 
 that surprised me is that it had a decent storyline. The game may be about the fighting, but I 
 think the Subspace Emmisary beats that by a long shot. No kidding; it's truly amazing. Except for 
 the last level... You're forced to go through all of the previous levels, fighting clones of all 
 the characters. This gets repetetive fast. But, it can be made for fun with the awesome co-op. 
 I've always been a fan of co-op. I like it on Mario Kart Double Dash, Resistance: Fall of Man and 
 Lego Star Wars. And now, Brawl. Co-op gets a thumbs up. And the subspace emmisary gets 2 thumbs 
 up. If Subspace Emmisary were it's own game, it would still be worth $50. A+
  
  The music in the game is great. The game takes music from other games, like Metroid, Mario, Zelda 
 etc. This works especially well, and it manages to avoid getting repetitive, due to the huge amount 
 of tracks in the game. In addition to the music, the overall sound quality is a lot better. In 
 Melee it all sounded kinda "cheap", but in Brawl, it's great, as expected. At first, the graphics 
 look like an update of Melee, but after playing Melee again, I realised the difference, and it's 
 huge. Yeah, great stuff. The game runs smoothly as well. It's loading times are fair and it's virtually 
 glitch free. Yup. You'd think that with all the stages, characters, music tracks, etc. it would 
 take a while to load, but of course, it doesn't, because in the sound and graphics department, 
 Brawl does everything right, which is one of the many reasons it's one of my favorite games out 
 there right now. Sound is excellent, and gets an A+. Graphics look great, but they aren't as good 
 as Super Mario Galaxy, Zack & Wiki or Resident Evil 4, so it gets a B+. Not bad.
  
  I didn't forget about the character roster, of course. This is one of the biggest character rosters 
 I've EVER seen. No doubt. There are about 35 characters in total. One of these characters is, of 
 course, Toon Link. (A. K. A. best character ever) This cute little guy is mah main man. I can't fight 
 with anyone else without feeling like I'm cheating on him. Except for... Meta Knight. Meta Knight 
 is another one of my favorite characters. He's extremely fast, and he can fly, which is an automatic 
 win. You're not a real gamer if you haven't played with these characters. However, the roster only 
 has a few good characters. Most of them are characters that I don't care about, and will most likely 
 never use. And using the same characters over and over again gets old. Still, you've gotta respect 
 Nintendo's effort with this roster. At least with all the characters, there's at least ONE character 
 in there for everyone, which is why the roster gets a B+.
  
  Now for multiplayer. Co-op on the Subspace Emmisary is great fun. It doesn't really do anything 
 any different than other games, but it's fun to run around beating up bad guys with your friends. 
 Though you can only have 2 players. As for a basic battle, it's pretty fun. It's not as good as 
 co-op, but it's worth a try. I mean, you get to beat up your friends, which is always fun. Online 
 play is... not so good. It really disappointed me. You can setup taunts to use, which would be 
 cool, if I knew how to use them, but I don't and no one will give me enough time to figure it out. 
 I don't really know how online can be different from normal 4 player mode, but it is, and that's 
 a bad thing. A very bad thing. Basically, I don't find online worthwhile, but what's the point 
 in telling you? You're not going to believe me. You're probably playing it right now. Multiplayer 
 has to be a C+, because Subspace Emmisary co-op is a ton of fun, but online is very lame, and 4 
 player brawls are only OK.
  
  So what's the final verdict? I think that Brawl is a superb game, though multiplayer needs work. 
 It's worth the $50 for sure. The Subspace Emmisary is loads of fun, the large amount of unlockable 
 content is crazy, but in a good way, and the stages are fun. There's also the ability to take snapshots 
 and replays then share them with friends, which is a great addition. I have some great replays 
 and funny snapshots. (Actually, they're dirty snapshots) Basically, the game overall is an A+. 
 With everything in the game, everyone is bound to find something they like or love. It was worth 
 the wait, and that's saying something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lol944
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Super smash bros brawl is a really good game. There are 35 characters and 41 levels (plus custom 
 levels) and its a lot of fun. The levels and characters are really creative and fun. They have 
 included a bunch of newcomers including sonic and snake. The story mode is interesting and it takes 
 around 10 hours (depending on how good you are) . There are lots of levels and 8 bosses to fight 
 in it. There are so many modes in brawl. They have included a lot of things from melee. Including 
 target test, home run, and multi man. The online is fun but has a lot of problems. It takes a very 
 long time to find people on random. But it is easier if you can play people on your friend list. 
 There is not a big chat system. You can say 4 different lines. So overall SSBB is a great game 
 for the Wii. I would suggest it for anybody who likes fighters or Nintendo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IgNIght
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl has been out for a while now, and when I first purchased it, I thought 
 I would still be playing it to this day. The reality is I am not. I don't know if I have grown 
 out of the franchise or the game just isn't as fun as Melee. I remember getting together and smashing 
 out my friends in my younger days with Roy and having a great since of victory that no other game 
 could deliver. Now my friends are more into Halo and Call of Duty 4, and only a few have Wiis.
 
  I enjoyed playing through the events and getting as many achievements as I could, I guess that 
 was one of my favorite aspects of brawl, but Subspace was boring as hell. Forced to play through 
 it for the characters, I found myself wishing it would end after going through the same adventure-esque 
 levels over and over. What it comes down to is that Brawl is a sold version of Melee with better 
 graphics, more characters, more levels, a new adventure mode, and a lot of little new features. 
 It's well worth your 50$, just don't expect the greatest game ever.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamelove1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 7:46 am PT
Review:  The third installment to the smash brothers sereis is infact the best in the sereis with no dought 
 at mind. With costumisable stages, new charecters, online play, and even more there is no reason 
 not to play tis game.
  
  The customizable stages are a blast to make. These allow you to pick a backround, a piece of nintendo's 
 past music, and many obsticals. The further through the game you get the more items you will be 
 rewarded with. Like ice blocks and spikes and things you'd see in a nintendo game. But with that 
 said you still can't do as much as nintendo can do with real stages. Also you dont get many backroundswhich 
 keeps you making the same places over and over. And I don't remember any of those backrounds in 
 past nintendo games ever. With this in mind it makes creating a stage feel limited.
  
  Although that one thing might make brawl less fun. IT still is great to see so many new charecters 
 leading to an even bigger total than melee. With that comes lots of stages which are way more interactive. 
 You can be attacked by the classic Donkey Kong, cannanpulted off of tetra's ship, Be attacked by 
 angry women in the classic game and watch system, and even more. 
  
  And new to the smash brothers series is online battles where you can battle many people on the 
 main corses of the game. Yes, only main courses. The online battle doesn't let you use customzed 
 levels. But this doesn't really matter anyway. On the internet you can choose either team battle 
 or togo one on one. They're both fun but get frusterating because if two people choose the same 
 charecter it won't turn you into different colors but keep you both one color so you have to look 
 to see if you're on team blue or team red which can get annoying.
  
  Subspace Emissary. Does anyone know what that means because I dont think nintendo even knows. Anyway 
 it's the best adventure mode yet giving out beautiful cutscenes, graphics, and a great story line. 
 Which seems new the brawl considering how melee's adventure mode wasn't so much rather than a regular 
 battle. Which had no story or cutscenes.
  
  With that done you'd be a fool not to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lewistoo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 11:15 pm PT
Review:  This game super smash bros brawl is a very good developed game because of its great graphics and 
 its giant character roster .Although it took me a short time to unlock all characters with 450 
 brawl matches. The subspace emersery is highly recommendend but the only bad thing is that you 
 have to be a cetain character apart from that it is a very good adventure mode. The classic mode 
 is very addictng but as you get more characters the better the characters that you verse get harder 
 to defeat. When you unlock every character you get a mode called all-star. The all-star mode is 
 very addictive but Ithink that its to easy because you can easily choose a really good character 
 and completly smash everyone. For example I chose wolf and I did it in less than 15 minutes. The 
 stage builder is pretty cool because you can save them and choose if you can fight in them in brawl, 
 special brawl and training. Thats what Ithink of super smash bros brawl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DK_47
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is so extraordinary, so amazing, that I wouldn't be surprised if we were still playing 
 10 years from now. Almost anyone can play it, and there are so many features that it will take 
 even hardcore gamers weeks to find its edges. 
  Super Smash Bros. first debuted on the N64 and was an instant hit. It was followed by Melee on 
 the Gamecube, and anyone with a Gamecube had a copy. 
  But now we have Brawl, and theres no going back. You can play with up to 4 players at a time, on 
 about 30 new stages, 10 classic stages (from melee) and and endless amount of custom stages that 
 you yourself can create. There are tons of characters, all from major Nintendo franchises, and 
 Sonic the Hedgehog along with Solid Snake from Sega and Konami. These characters all have their 
 own special abilites, advantages and disadvantages, and are almost completely different from each 
 other, allowing players to find their favorite. 
  Beyond the basic Brawl (multiplayer battle) modes, there are tons of things to do. You can create 
 your own stages, check records, play demos of Virtual Console games, check out your trophies and 
 stickers, Brawl online or spectate Brawls, train your skills, play some minigames, or enter the 
 Subspace Emissary, a brand new single-player/ co-op story mode thats is extremely entertaining. 
 
  All in all, Brawl is a game that anyone can enjoy, and I hope it lasts for decades. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conver
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2008 7:08 am PT
Review:  After a lot of delay, Brawl answered the cries of many hungry gamers and has kept many of them 
 stuffed since it's release. Not only is there plenty of face smashing to do, there's tons of stuff 
 to collect, unlock, and make.
  
  A Story mode is available, called the Subspace Emissary. There's no voices or dialogue to be read, 
 but the silent CGI movies more than make up enough to be understood. Classic mode and All-Star 
 mode return once again, along with Homerun contests and target practice. Honestly if you ever get 
 bored of one part of the game there's so much else to do, including Online play.
  
  While Online play hasn't been completely functional, as long as you know some other peoples friend 
 codes you're good to go. Plenty of online boards, including this one, have topics dedicated to 
 giving away your code so people can try to beat you up.
  
  If you ever get bored of the levels given, you can always go ahead and create your own with the 
 new Stage Builder. With this you can also choose your own music for your personal stage.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone and everyone. If you have a Wii, there's no reason not to own this 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoraX64
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2008 4:11 am PT
Review:  One day, after being bored and depressed all day long, I stumbled upon a website, called the Smash 
 Bros DO JO. That is what got me happy, and hyped up for Brawl. Is it worth the wait? Yes, it is.
 
  
  Brawl looks like a more improved Melee, but that is at first. Once you throw in all of the new 
 characters (35, if you didn't know, the items, and the awesome new Final Smashes, you have a game 
 that packs so much sheer content that you will want to play until you get all 700 or so stickers, 
 or every CD (good luck) . 
  
  The new Subspace Emissary may be shallow, but if you think deeply, a lot of recent games have been 
 as shallow as that, and Brawl chucks that in as a distraction!
  
  I'll sum it up in a few words:
  
  1. The GRAPHICS are the best I've seen
  2. I've never played 
 a game 100+ hours as fast as I have with Brawl. Only like 5 days
  3. Even after those 130+ hours, brawl is still as entertaining as a new game, and I play it more 
 than any other.
  4. WIFI is awesome, even though you can't do stock with anyone, too bad, it still rocks.
  5. 
 The Subspace Emissary has more story than most games, and there are no annoying voices because 
 nobody talks.
  
  Thank you for reading my review and please, for the sake of the world (and your family) , buy Brawl. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batacatafog
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 25, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Impressive graphics and sound effects for Wii console-Background music is well done-There's 
 a character for everyone (even for beginners) -Even more items you can pick up and use against your 
 opponent (s) -Some items are really powerful-The computer will challenge you if you want to play 
 alone so you won't be bored-Masterhand will keep beginners busy-Subspace Emissary allows a one-player 
 RPG-like mode for exploring and more challenge-You won't put this game down in a while-Classic 
 mode is great for beginners-Final Smashes will turn the tides of every battle-Multiplayer mode 
 is really intense-Every character has at least one powerful attack that he can utilize at any time 
 in battle-Many stages and arenas-Some stages will do the killing for you
  
  THE BAD: Even more items you can pick up and use against your opponent (s) -Some items are really 
 powerful-Masterhand's movements and attacks are easily predicted and evaded by the veterans of 
 the series-You won't put this game down in a while-Final Smashes will turn the tides of every battle-Some 
 stages will do the killing for you-"Suicidals"-Once beginners get used to one character, they'll 
 find that they hate using the rest
  
  Overall: ADDICTING! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nesku08
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 25, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  It's been two years since Super Smash Bros. Brawl was first announced at Nintendo press conference 
 at e3 2006, and its been nine years since the original Super Smash Bros. was released for the Nintendo 
 64. Since then, the hype surrounding the game has become nearly insurmountable, and most die-hard 
 Smash fans have nearly been driven mad with anticipation. Super Smash Bros. Brawl (SSBB for short) 
 has definitely been a long time coming, and fans all knew it would take a miracle for it to live 
 up to players' expectation. 
  
  SSBB is short, one of the best games that have come out for a long time. Not only that, but its 
 some of the best looking games on any system, and every Wii owner should at least give this game 
 a shot.
  
  Never played a SSB game? Well that's no problem due to SSBB's tight and simple controls. Players 
 can either use the Wii remote with Nunchuk, Wii remote by its self, classic controller, and best 
 of all, the Gamecube controller. Players can also customize the control at the options menu.
  
  The main idea of the game is to get your opponents hit percentage high enough and then knock 
 them into oblivion. Players can use standard attacks and special attacks to increase their enemies' 
 percentage up and land a smash attack to send foes flying off screen.
  Or they could use the massive variety of items the game has to offer, like the new Golden Hammer, 
 which can send foes flying at ridiculously low percentages, or players can use assist trophies, 
 which summon random non-playable characters to help or hinder players during the battle, like the 
 8-bit racers of Excitebike, or the Labrador from the Nintendog series. 
  
  And talking about variety, SSBB now boasts 35 incredibly balanced characters, including two third-party 
 characters, Snake, the ultimate soldier of fortune, and Sonic, the world's fastest hedgehog. The 
 game also sports a massive array of stages, like the WarioWare stage, which throws random micro 
 games at you, and New Pork City, which is the largest stage in the series, and is perfect for four 
 player bouts. SSBB also includes some stages from Super Smash Bros. Melee, and when players count 
 the stages they make in the new stage builder, they can have literally thousands of stage to play 
 on.
  
  The game also comes with a bunch of new features, like being able to play online via Nintendo WFC, 
 and the new adventure mode called "Subspace Emissary". It's basically a platformer that actually 
 has a somewhat jumbled story. It can take up to ten hours just to complete it, though, and is practically 
 a game of its own.
  
  To top it all off, the game goes on a speeding sixty frames-per-second. There are over three hundred 
 songs, some from the composers of Chrono Tiger and Metal Gear. Super Smash Bros. Brawl is simply 
 a game that Wii owners shouldn't miss.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daniel1130113
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 24, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Super Smash Bros. in Nintendo 64 I totally got hooked to the game. When I got 
 the Gamecube, I bought the SSBM and loved that game and I still play it today. But SSBB is definitely 
 the best game I have in my home, it`s got 35 characters in total, tonz of old and new maps, the 
 Subspace Emissary, Stagebuilder ( to build your own stage, with costumized music, background and 
 size) , and lots more. Also its a very good game to play with friends and family, you also get to 
 costumize your game before it starts, and online battles don`t lag. SSBB has also 4 ways to customize 
 the controllers, so you can feel good with the controller that suits you, the music in the battles 
 is great, and the new items is definitely a great new addition to the game. For me, this is the 
 best game on Wii because its fun and safe for the entire family. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic_X_Link10
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 24, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Well now, the wait is finally over huh? Was it worth it? All I can say is 
  HECK YEAH!
  It's been a while, but hey, to make a game like this, I don't blame them for putting it off.
 
  
  So many nintendo characters, including Sega's Sonic and even Snake!
  This makes for one of the best games I've ever played.
  The graphics are perfect for this game, 
 not too flashy, bu just perfect enough for this game.
  The gameplay is amazing with the usual single player modes, but with an adventure mode that could 
 well be a game itself!
  This game has been in my Wii since the debut, and I doubt it's coming out anytime soon.
  
  
 You can choose between wii-mote, Wii-nunchuck, GC Controller, or even the Classic Controller to 
 use for gameplay!
  Although I find myself either using my GC controller or Classic controller, lol.
  
  Overall, 
 what can I say? Nintendo, yet again, you have delivered yet another tremendous game, 
  Congratulations! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrimusStream
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 24, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  All I can say for Super Smash Bros. Brawl is that it is the best video game that has ever came 
 out for Nintendo. Nearly all of the characters came back including Mario, Luigi, Ness, Fox, etc. 
 This also includes new characters like Metaknight, Lucas, Ike, Lucario, Wolf and the third party 
 characters Solid Snake and Sonic the Hedgehog. 35 characters is good enough for the game and that 
 goes to all 41 stages. One of the things that I like about this game is the Adventure mode called 
 Subspace Emissary. This can finally show the story line of the game and go on to many stages to 
 fight against certain enemies. The wi-fi, multiplayer games, coin launcher, and stage builder are 
 my favorite stuff that I like to do when I am playing the game everyday. This is how I feel about 
 the game and I give it two thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goretrotter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  A friend and I were anticipating the release of this game since word of its development was let 
 out. It was the main game for the Wii that the world waited for, ushering in the new age of multiplayer 
 fighting online. The game lived up to its hype and legacy. Not short on creative gameplay, superb 
 graphics, creative final smashes, and some video game cliches we have all grown to know and love. 
 All players have their own personalities, strengths, and weaknesses. Part of the fun is learning 
 who can do what more effectively. All in all, the good outweighs the very few bad points.
  
  The online play has some glitches which Nintendo promises to iron out (possibly at a small 
 fee) , but they barely catch your attention. Some lag is possible if you, or your opponents, have 
 a weak wireless signal and/or poor ISP. 
  
  If youre in the mood for endless fun and pure Nintendo at its best get Super Smash Brothers Brawl 
 now and pwnt some n00bz in a 4 player melee!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ded_Eye
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  Hello dear readers this is definitley the best gane on the wii so far. They throw Solid Snake in 
 from the MGS series and make him feel right at home with the other Smash Bros. Im partial to the 
 swordsmen Link and Meta Knight. With Meta Knight's super fast attacking speed and his awesome gliding 
 ability, he is definetly a person that you would want to add to your line of players. You already 
 know about Link so you find out if he has new attacks in SSBB. This is an awesome game that when 
 you finish the Subspace Emissary that the game doesn't just end there. You can still enjoy plenty 
 of other brawl matches for a long, long time. Plus with the added affect of the online matches 
 it makes this game even better. The levels are pretty awesome, they throw in Green Hill Zone from 
 the Sonic series and 75m from the old Donkey Kong game. I really don't know what happened to Lylat 
 Cruise. When you play it, all that is different from Battlefield is the middle platform lower. 
 Poor Lylat Cruise, it didn't even get a chance to strut it's stuff. The new items are pretty good. 
 There are a total of 22 new items in all and if you count the return of the bumper it makes the 
 count 23. If you haven't played the other Smash Bros games, then you might want to rent it first. 
 But if you are a hard core gamer thats already played the previous entries in the series, just 
 go Smash and have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tpaul37
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 23, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  First of all, if u have a wii, just go now and buy this game. it is extremely entertaining. if you 
 are playing alone or with friends its still a awsome game. there are alot of characters to unlock 
 (which is a good thing) and they have alot of stages this time around. now for the game modes. 
 the adventure mode in brawl is nothing like the one in melee. brawls adventure mode takes abut 
 15 hours if you want to get it 100% complete. playaing adventure mode through once will probably 
 unlock all the characters exept about three. 
  
  Home run contest, classic, trophies, all-star and target smash are back. there are also some new 
 modes like boss battles. in boss battles you just fight all of the bosses. to get trophies, instead 
 of betting your coins, you play a sort of arcade game where you shoot your coins at moving objects 
 to earn trophies and stickers.
  
  But now to the most important aspect, brawl. it is still one to 4 player. there are still cpu's. 
 but now there are tons of new items, and stages. you can also play some melee stages, and play 
 on stages that you can make yourself. the brawl mode is absolutly great though, and you can also 
 play online, with friends or strangers. the online system dosent work as well as halo but it is 
 good enough for me. For more info i would watch the video review. But as i said, if you have a 
 wii, go get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilledcactus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  The only real flaw in this game is not the games fault. The online play problem is Nintendo's fault. 
 Even though its fun to play people online, the experience is even better if you're playing against 
 a friend or relative in the same room. That makes the multi player aspect of this game really good. 
 Hopefully Nintendo fixes their online disaster called friendcodes and a very limited amount of 
 them at that. Apart from the online part of the game, SSBB is a great game. As mentioned before, 
 although the online sucks, the multi player stuff is still the best part of the game. The fact 
 that you can be playing a game with multiple people on the same system without a split screen is 
 quite good. For that reason, playing multi player online or on the system, you see the exact same 
 thing on the screen. Mulit player on one system is better then online because you can actually 
 see and interact with the person you're fighting against or with. Brawl mode is the most important 
 part of the game. Thats were everything else you do is actually used and put to the test. Although 
 loading is a little long, what matters is the actual brawl; and the actual brawl is great. The 
 reason it isn't perfect is because on a brawl type math against CPU's, the opponents will always 
 target you so you cant escape but on team battle with all CPU's (except for the player) the battles 
 are a little slower paced then an ideal match should be. The other main section (and often overlooked 
 or under valued) is the solo mode. No one seems to give solo mode enough credit. The SSE is actually 
 a lot better then I had expected, Nintendo did a really good job incorporating 35 different characters, 
 from many different games and ages, into a story mode that isn't too long, hard, or bad. Since 
 SSE isn't the point of the game, you cant expect it to dwarf the rest of the game and take 20 hours. 
 That is not the point of SSE. The point of SSE is to provide an alternative way to unlock all the 
 characters but still be entertaining and worthwhile to play. For what Nintendo needed to do with 
 SSE, they did an amazing job with it. Congrats Nintendo, Good job. The rest of solo mode doesn't 
 include anything else like SSE, but is a good way to practice with characters and develop skills 
 to make multi player and SSE easier and more fun. For music in SSBB, Nintendo took the best songs 
 from each series in SBB and from its own past, and remade them for SSBB. That means your enjoyment 
 of the music depends on how much you like the music from each series. Overall, Nintendo has taken 
 some of the best music in gaming's history and put them into one game. The music is amazing. Good 
 job Nintendo. Graphics, Nintendo's second biggest problem. (skip this section if you want to go 
 straight to the graphics talk) The ps3, psp, xbox360, and PC, all have much better graphics then 
 Nintendo's Wii and DS. Nintendo tries to dwarf the importance of that by offering really good, 
 fun, engrossing, entertaining games to play. Games that tend to be quite different then the type 
 of games the 360 and ps3 have. Instead of having a 3-way tug-of-war for the 3 main gameing platforms, 
 Nintendo does things diferently and makes it so that everyone has to have a Wii to get half of 
 the GOOD games on the market. That leaves the 60 and ps3 to have war with eachother because they 
 offer the same types of games as eachother. Those 2 fight over graphics, while the Wii just has 
 tons of the best games and game series ever created including mario, zelda, and metroid. The downside 
 to keeping out of this battle with microsoft and sony, is that Nintendo gave up graphical capabilities 
 for much better gaming in general (MOTION-SENSOR CONTROLS) . The graphics for SSBB are better then 
 most Wii games at first. However, once you start playing its not very noticable because you dont 
 play Wii games for amazing graphics. Then you get to SSE, watch the first movie and think you need 
 to get your eyes checked, so you play a little more, watch a few more movies, and are just blown 
 away with the graphics of the movies. Then even when you're playing you notice the graphics are 
 just astounding. This shows Nintendo's genious. The graphics aren't as good as many ps3 or 360 
 games, but the graphics are way beyond what you would expect from a Nintendo game. By keeping peoples 
 standards low for graphics, Nintendo makes it easy to spend mroe time making great games. Every 
 now and then, Nintendo throws in a game with graphics like SSBB to impress people and it makes 
 the graphics for the game seem better then they really are. The graphics still are better then 
 many games and are really good. A good comparison is like Gran turismo 5 graphics for ps3 owners 
 compared to most games on the ps3. Except Nintendo's graphics are multiple steps down from that, 
 but still really good in this game. Replay and value go together for this game. The thing is, you 
 can play every part of this game from beginning to end as many times as you want and still enjoy 
 it. That is more noticeable in brawl mode, but solo mode can still be played through many times 
 and still hold its value. The fact that the game is $50 isn't bad considering you could easily 
 still be playing this game in 10 years. This games replay makes its value incredibly high also.
 
  
  Best aspects
  
  Brawl mode
  SSE
  graphics
  replay
  multi player (same system)
  choice (35 characters, 39 including transformations and all 3 pokemon)
 
  Music
  Value
  
  Worst aspects
  
  ONLINE MULTI PLAYER
  to a lesser extent, graphics (explained earlier, good for a Nintendo system, but not outstanding 
 compared to games for other platforms)
  
  Overall
  
  A solid game. Well worth its price. Offers endless enjoyment for years to come. Lacks good online 
 multi player, but offline multi player (same system) is amazing
  
  8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct1257860
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 23, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Alright this game is super fun and it can be aimed towards the newbie crowd and the hardcore at 
 the same time. It can also be played as a nice single player experience as well as multi-player 
 experience. First, things first is that the graphics look very nice and look well. The characters 
 all look like the should and all the environments where nicely done. The character selection is 
 by far the greatest this game series has ever delivered. I am not positive but i think there are 
 something like a total of 36 characters you can unlock. The campaign mode is nice its just as long 
 as halo was and was eight hours long. They use cinematic cut scenes but know dialog which is fine 
 but the cut scenes kind of scene thrown in, in the beginning but after a while it works fine. So 
 the campaign was really good and fun. Then you have your classic mode where you just go through 
 all the characters and fight them, just the way the old super smash bros. were, which is also really 
 cool. The stages were really fun and different and they actually through in some animation that 
 comes into effect game play wise. The music was also classic as usual. 
  Now the online i haven't even touched but from what i heard is that the matches are sorta thrown 
 at you, meaning you dont leaderboards or nothing to trace the games you played. There just there, 
 for fun... so its basically like the brawl mode where you choose who you fight against but with 
 lag. And lots of it, just from what i heard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexhomee
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 23, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  This game has pretty easy controls and 4 ways to play. With the hundreds of unlockables will keep 
 you busy. Which means you won't complete the game really fast and then want to sell it. This game 
 you can keep forever. Then with 41 stages and a humongous character selection you will always have 
 fun with friends and alone with coms. Plus you can get all the characters by just finishing the 
 adventure mode. Not to mention the stage builder where you can make your own stage (hints the name) . 
 Not to mention the online play is great it never really lags up or anything like that. Plus you 
 can play with your friends online. Super Smash Bros. online is the best thing that Nintendo ever 
 thought of, besides of course the Wii. This is just SSBB in a nutshell. I suggest this game for 
 anybody especially Nintendo lovers. It is definitely worth your money. I almost think this game 
 is worth getting the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: derekz1234
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Intro:
  Brawl is great from the multiplayer matches to the Subspace Emissary. It hs something for everybody. 
 For fighters, this is for you. For shooters, do coin launcher! For gamblers, you'll like spectator 
 mode. It has great music, and the main theme is a great example. It has tons of characters to choose 
 from, and you can build your own stage!
  
  Characters:
  Lots of great characters, giving lots of variety. You can have a slow but strong guy like Bowser 
 or a fast and weak (no offense) character like (gasp) Sonic! Overall, the characters have large 
 range.
  Score for characters: 10/10
  
  Storyline:
  Subspace Emissary is pure awesome. It gathers characters from different worlds and puts them together. 
 The bosses are pure fun. Overall, great storyline.
  Score for storyline: 10/10
  
  Multiplayer:
  Brawl was made for multiplayer. It has a great selection of stages and modes and 
 if you have more than four people, you can do rotation. You can do special brawl and have bunny-eared 
 fire-spitting metal characters in light gravity! And also, there's the smash ball and Overall, 
 Brawl has heavenly multiplayer. 
  Scorefor multiplayer: 10/10
  
  Music:
  Brawl has great music. It has the main theme different than Melee's, yet it's awesome! You can 
 even set your own music settings at the my music mode. I have the main theme on my MP3!
  Score for music: 10/10
  
  And that ends my review. All you Brawl players out there, have a 
 great time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detroithardcore
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  This game does everything youd want from it, awesome story mode, tons of familiar characters, tons 
 of new characters, lots of great new moves including the all new finishers, mini games, online 
 multiplayer, need I go on ?
  
  Graphics = totally up to par for the characters they represent, awesome animations, the backgrounds 
 are astonishing at times, the giant bosses in adventure mode look great.
  
  Controls = I suppose that depends on how you play it, me I never even bothered learning the nunchuk 
 controls once I seen I could use a classic controller, but all my friends who have used the default 
 wiimote controls say theyre great.
  
  
  Difficulty = Adjustable for your experience level, make sure to polish up your skills offline before 
 attempting to try your hand online though
  
  Learning curve = 1-2 hours of play for an inexperienced player should suffice, the story mode doesnt 
 start at a high difficulty unless you set it to.
  
  Replay = Endless possibilities, between the adventure the classic, vs, online vs, mini games, trials.
 
  
  Value = Worth full admission!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 9NineBreaker9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Way, WAY back in 2006, there was this game trailer revealed that had the fanboys wetting themselves 
 over the awesomeness; the game was Super Smash Bros. Brawl, the next game after the critically 
 acclaimed predecessor, Melee, and the characters introduced were making some cry out with joy and 
 others wonder who they were (Pit and Pit, respectively) .
  
  Now, two years later and about a dozen release date push backs, one of the most anticipated games 
 on the Wii and perhaps of gaming history has been released here in the United States. I'm glad 
 to say that the wait was well worth it.
  
  At first glance, one would say that Brawl doesn't look particularly amazing in the graphics department. 
 While this may be true, the true beauty of this game comes out in action. What this game loses 
 in raw realism it makes up for in detailed and highly stylized graphics. Each character has a design 
 to call their own, from the simple Mario overalls to the futuristic garb of Fox; the amount of 
 detail placed into the costumes is surprising and refreshing.
  
  Stages themselves look amazing as well, each one being very unique and detailed. Fans will enjoy 
 seeing locals such as Delfino Plaza, Shadow Moses Island and Castle Siege, the Fire Emblem stage, 
 crafted with such great detail. Unfortunately, all of this detail doesn't help some stages, as 
 they can become too busy and help to detract from the actual fighting.
  
  The music of the game is hands-down fantastic, if only for the immense fan service. From the instant 
 the opening theme plays, the word "EPIC" only begins to describe the effort placed into the soundtrack 
 alone. While many of the tracks are remixes of songs from previous games or synthesized versions 
 of classic songs, they are still good, well produced songs. Some of the music has even been taken 
 directly from the game, such as Battle In the Base, Sonic Boom and Ricco Harbor. While there are 
 definitely going to be songs that you do not like, you have the ability to switch them off in a 
 handy "My Music" option, as well as increase the likelihood of your favorite track playing.
  
  This game is amazing even before playing it. The moment you place your favorite characters 
 in the ring, this game becomes almost divine.
  
  Gameplay remains more or less unchanged from the previous entrys; forgoing the normal health bar 
 of typical fighters, each strike increases a percentage for your opponent and, the higher the percentage, 
 the further one is sent flying. The goal is to hit someone hard enough once they have suffered 
 enough damage and send them flying off of the stage or upwards, depleting a life from them. However, 
 you must ensure that you do not have the same happen to you. YOU MUST RECOVER!
  
  Every combatant has, in addition to aerial and ground moves used with the A button, four special 
 moves used with the B button and a directional input. For example, Samus' neutral B move makes 
 begin to charge up her laser, while her Side B launches a missile. These moves can help spell the 
 difference between victory and defeat, and learning how to use these moves properly will make your 
 job easier. While some may appear to be useless at the start, it's a matter of learning the scenarios 
 where they can be effective and practicing their use.
  
  The character roster is an amazing 35 characters, 21 of which are unlocked from the start. Returning 
 fighters play out similarly to their Melee counterparts with a few moves swaps and tweaks and will 
 feel very good in the hands of a previous Pikachu mainer. However, the dreaded clones still exist 
 to a certain degree.
  
  While these "Cloned" characters, those who have the same moves as another, previous fighter, still 
 remain, most have been "Luigified," or changed on some levels. Thankfully though, everyone has 
 a very different feel and the incredible balance between all characters means that everyone can 
 find someone that they like and have a good chance in the battlefieldthe tiers of the previous 
 game have been largely done away with.
  
  Of all of the fighters, very few have actually brought a radically new playing style to them: Captain 
 Olimar of Pikmin fame gains his power from an entourage of Pikmin and is powerless without them, 
 Solid Snake of Metal Gear fame is a very tactical fighter with the ability to use C4 and mines 
 for sabotage and grenades and missiles for combat, and Pokemon Trainer who switches between three 
 Pokemon fighters, each with a wildly different playstyle. While this isn't necessarily a bad thing, 
 when improving over Melee, it feels as if something more could have been done. Still, the fundamental 
 differences between characters still makes everyone play out so much differently that they might 
 as well have different fighting mechanics. Personally, the roster is fantastic - enough fans were 
 serviced.
  
  On the field of battle, one has many tools to use for combat in the form of items. These items, 
 ranging from a lightsaber-esque Beam Sword to the friendly Pokeball are very useful and can easily 
 turn the battle in your favor. This time around, many of the items can backfire; the shrinking 
 Lightning from Mario Kart can shrink you, and the slowing Stopwatch can slow you down or just fail 
 to work. This helps to balance out some of the might from Melee, but they still feel too powerful 
 and cheap in some cases. You can now move while using the Fire Flower or Super Scope, making both 
 items now devastating if used correctly.
  
  New to the game is the introduction of Assist Trophies and the Final Smash Ball. Assist Trophies 
 house a random character like Shadow or Tingle who hop onto the battlefield with their use, offering 
 up an attack or distraction that varies wildly between the summoned character. Some are useful, 
 like Lyn or Gray Fox, others are destructive, like Andross. Some are just annoying as all hell, 
 like Nintendog who covers the entire screen wanting affection, Devil, who skews the camera, and 
 Mr. Resseti, who rants, blocking a good portion of the screen. While this is to be expected, some 
 could have been done without or an option to select who is called, much like the item switch, could 
 have been used.
  
  Final Smashes are an interesting new addition to the field of battle; every so often, a glowing 
 ball with the Smash Brothers logo on it appears  the first one to wail on this enough and break 
 it is granted a Final Smash. These attacks differ from character to character, but they are all 
 very deadly and unique. Samus fires a destructive, all-encompassing Zero Beam before transforming 
 into Zero Suit Samus, Bowser transforms into Giga Bowser, Ice Climbers summon a frigid iceberg 
 and King Dedede calls out his Waddle Dee Army for an attack. 
  
  These are a lover-or-hate kind of thing. For some, they may be a useful attack and reward those 
 who can smash the Smash Ball with a powerful attack. For others, they may be a cheap method to 
 guarantee a kill for those lucky enough to smash the Smash Ball. Personally, they seem like an 
 interesting addition and must be used correctly to be truly effective. Though, you may oftentimes 
 find yourself wanting a Final Smash just so that someone else doesn't get one  they range from 
 utterly useless to almighty.
  
  The stages of Brawl are very different from Melee in that almost all of them will change over time. 
 Even the basic Battlefield changes the time of the day, while some, like Delfino Plaza, drop you 
 off at various locations, mixing up the playing field. Each stage is very different, but some of 
 them seem more annoying than anything else  75m from Donkey Kong is large and busy with very little 
 foot room, Mario Bros has turtles and crabs that can kill you almost instantly and KOs from the 
 side are difficult, and Hanenbow, as much as I love it, is a very confusing stage wherein the platforms 
 can move and the water below will kill many an attempted swimmer.
  
  A new addition to the series is a Stage Builder which lets you create your own maps for brawling. 
 Unfortunately, this feature is extremely limited in the number of pieces you can unlock, the unimpressive 
 pieces that are unlocked, and the relatively small size of the stages. You will never be able to 
 create a masterpiece stage or a complex one like New Pork City, but this does allow you to abuse 
 some of the game features, such as a CD Factory stage or a Cage Match stage, which can be very 
 fun. Dedede at 713% never gets old.
  
  Many of the other features that have been added feel somewhat gimmicky, but are still interesting 
 and noteworthy. Coin Launcher allows you to use collected coins in an arcade-style game to obtain 
 more Trophies and Stickers, Stickers being a secondary Trophy and an augmentation in the Subspace 
 Emissary. Masterpieces allow you to demo some of the more famous Nintendo games, as well as to 
 see where some of the oddball characters like Pit, Ice Climbers and Captain Falcon originate from. 
 These are very pointless, as they range from 30 seconds long to 5 minutes long, not nearly enough 
 time to fully enjoy the games. Chronicle mode is a glorified advertisement/history of Nintendo 
 games. Challenges thankfully tell you how to unlock many of the hidden aspects of the game, such 
 as stages, characters and music, making it finally possible to get everything without consulting 
 GameFAQs.
  
  The main gameplay modes of Brawl remain the same with the large exception of the new adventure 
 mode, the Subspace Emissary. In this, the land of smashdom is being overrun by the forces of the 
 Subspace, and it's up to Mario and the Brawl crew to fight back the forces and find out everything 
 about these new antagonists. The stages boil down to side-scrolling beat-um-ups; your selected 
 character moves from one point to another, beating the crap out of a mob of foes before reaching 
 the end of the stage and an accompanying boss taken from Nintendo games, such as Ridley or Petey 
 Piranha. The boss fights are the highlight of this adventure, as the side scrolling and light puzzle 
 elements feel very out of place and are aggravating at best.
  
  Even more aggravating is the lack of any real story. Oh, there's supposed to be a story, but it's 
 so vague and unimpressive that it just feels like a series of silent but awesome cutscenes. There 
 is not voice acting, so emotion is conveyed via gestures and facial expressions, leaving you guessing 
 as to what exactly is supposed to be happening. There are a bunch of theories as to what it's supposed 
 to mean, but when you are coming up with theories for a story, the story has failed for me. In 
 the end, it's a cool addition, just a very bland and unnecessary one, and that's a real disappointment.
 
  
  Other modes remain similar to the Melee versions, but each have slight changes to better balance 
 them. Classic mode remains, but the matches are now randomized and have done away with all events 
 other than Break the Targets. All-Star mode remains intact and no real differences can be seen 
 in it. Events also remain, but the ability to change the difficulty as well as a co-op feature 
 keep them from feeling too old. Break the Targets now only have five levels of increasing difficulty, 
 a very lame change from the individualized stages from previous games. Home-Run Contest stays the 
 same, but co-op and a barrier that prevents the Sandbag from being knocked out too early have been 
 introduced. Multi-Man Brawl stays the same in pitting you against a mass of computer foes either 
 under time limits, a kill limit or against the hardest computers in the game, now with the ability 
 to play with a friend.
  
  The multiplayer end of things has stayed roughly the same, though it feels a bit easier to access 
 now. You can go up against three other friends of computers with nine difficulty levels on the 
 41 different stages with either a time limit, a life limit, or a mad dash for coins that fly out 
 from your opponent. You can choose what items are on, as well as a multiplier for damage and a 
 few other features, as well. All of this remains the same from Melee except for the Special Mode 
 that allows you to mix and match features such as slow time and giant. Perhaps one of the more 
 saddening losses, for me at least, is the removal of the various scores that one received for doing 
 special things, such as for hogging items or taunting a lot. Not much, but I miss it.
  
  Still though, the most anticipated feature of the latest game may very well be the addition of 
 WiFi play. With this, you can now play against people across the world, allowing once and for all 
 a easy and true method for finding the best Brawler out there.
  
  The playability of the online aspects first starts with your Internet connection  a pretty good 
 one is required for lag free play, and, even at that, others may have poor connections, so lag 
 is still evident. Thankfully, it's fairly minimal for most matches. Secondly, you need to have 
 a fair amount of skill. Sometimes, the "With Everyone" form of online will bring you masters of 
 the game, while you may go up against complete novices the next. It's fairly random and not really 
 serious fighting because of this, though many people fail to see that. You can also choose to watch 
 the match in "Spectator" mode, betting coins on the winner, though some people like to screw up 
 the results by suiciding or taunting the whole match.
  
  The second option for online fighting, "With Friends," requires the dreaded Friend Codes in order 
 to work. But, after the tediousness of this, it works off quite well with you being able to fight 
 against friends or have a serious match with an unknown person from a forum. Perhaps even more 
 entertaining is the ability to assign messages to your four taunts. Expect to see "OVER 9000", 
 "That's what she said!" "lol n00b", "WTF!?", "YOU MUST RECOVER!" and all of your favorite ones 
 liners with this.
  
  For both modes, stages are voted on, and the stage with the most votes is selected. Should there 
 be a tie, the stage is selected at random from the tying stages. In waiting for your matches, everyone 
 can wait in a lobby and beat up on a poor Sandbag. In the end though, the online service is only 
 average, as lag, annoyance, and a lack of many of the bells and whistles offered by every other 
 online game seriously hampers an otherwise fun experience.
  
  After all is said and done, Super Smash Brothers Brawl is a very excellent game. The stylized and 
 detailed graphics, the amazing music, great character roster, basic yet complex fighting, balanced 
 mechanics, a variety of options and modes and many new additions to the series is balanced out 
 by a subpar adventure mode, some unnecessary and gimmicky additions and an average online service. 
 Why this then gets a eight is simply for the quality of what was done right. Things that were done 
 wrong are not very game breaking and are minor nitpicks.
  
  This game can easily be enjoyed by anyone and everyone; the serious gamer who mastered Mewtwo in 
 Melee, the kid with no friends, the dood looking for the next party favor, heck, even parents and 
 casual gamers may find themselves picking up a sword and joining the Brawl. The sheer amount of 
 content is astounding, and the quality of everything, good or bad, is amazing. This game is fantastic, 
 hands-down game-of-the-year. I may not go as far as to call it the best game ever, but it does 
 a real good job at convincing me otherwise.
  
  "Knock knock." "Who's there...?" "Interrupting Falcon." "Interrupting Falcon wh-" "PAWNCH!!! COME 
 ON!"
  
  - As from my GameFAQs account of the same name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Temps567
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is the second game I ever got for the wii. And I tell you, the best game for the wii 
 so far. Here is a game summary:
  
  Gameplay- Awesome but you have to use the gamecube controllers (10/10)
  Sound- Some of the best 
 music I have heard on a game (10/10)
  Graphics- 2 words, Simply Beautiful. (10/10)
  Playability- This Game has a really great story. and also pretty long one too, even though no characters 
 talk (9/10)
  Replay Value- Higher than the Sky.
  
  This game is really good if you want to really beat the smack out of Wario.
  Like I do. Also 
 if you like long stories, you should also get this game. Or if you just want to start all out, 
 never ending brawls, this game iis for you.
  
  This game starts you out with normal ok characters, exept for Ike cause to me he is the best character 
 in the game. Then you have to play the different modes and events to slowly earn more characters. 
 As you progress through the game you unlock different modes and trophies. ( My favorite mode is 
 the homerun hit cause me and Ike kick-@#$ in it) . An easier way to get your characters and unlocking 
 more trophies is to play the story mode, Subspace Emmisary. Now this is pretty long ( Especially 
 at the end) so it may take you a couple days to finish ( trust me it took me almost a month to 
 finish it) But by then you would have unlocked all of the characters and most trophies.
  
  This game takes a while to get used to but its still very addictive and fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imacritic814
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Everyone knows the Super Smash Bros series. The first game was awesome, for the Nintendo 64. Then 
 Super Smash Bros Melee came out for the Gamecube, and was the best-selling Gamecube game! Now, 
 comes Super Smash Bros Brawl for the Wii! It's insane, intense, and there's a whole new roster 
 of fighters ready to battle it out!
  
  New and old characters from many games!
  More stages, and even a few familiar ones too!
  New items, including the all new Smash Ball!
 
  Collect trophies, stickers, and make your own stages!
  Play on Wi-Fi against total strangers or your best friends!
  All new story to play by yourself, 
 or with a partner!
  
  The graphics of this game rock out on the Wii, and the music is great. There are a huge variety 
 of characters, with their own strengths and weaknesses. One of the improved things in SSBB is the 
 story. You play as pretty much every character, and you can play not only by yourself, bt with 
 a partner too!
  
  Anyway, SSBB will keep you addicted for a long time. This game will never get old, and it'll stay 
 strong for quite some time. Perfect 10 for Super Smash Bros Brawl! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanye04
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  Through the years many games have been produced in hopes on catching the manic game play of the 
 Super Smash Bros. series. Only two games before the current one have been released but that has 
 been enough to stir up a buzz big enough to produce huge cults dedicated to the game.
  
  The game is basically a battle-royale of tons of Nintendo (and non-Nintendo) characters duking 
 it out to see who is the best in a brawl to rule them all. It sounds fun and not surprisingly it 
 does not disappoint. In fact it on a grand scale of things can be looked at as one of the best 
 games on any console but hands-down on the wii. Of course there is much more to the game than the 
 battle-royale aptly named "standard brawl". There is much much more
  
  Although the game is easily best with 3 other players along side of you, you do have the option 
 of playing alone in a single player that is engaging if not a bit repetitive which is called "sub-space 
 emissary". The story chronicles you through an epic fight that is being waged on a large scale 
 by a plethora of different characters which after watching a fairly short cut scene you will have 
 the option of controlling. There is absolutely no talking whatsoever which can be putting of at 
 first making the game seem a bit lonely but you will hear the occasional "Pika!" from pikachu.
 
  
  You start of with a couple characters to play as but by the end you will have a huge roster of 
 characters to choose from by the end of the game. The game can take you about 6 hours or longer 
 to complete although cult fanatics might be able to complete it in a faster time. As great as the 
 game mode is it lacks the finesse of other modes in the game such as the original mode classic 
 which is probably the fan favorite of game modes. Sub space emissary can be a bit tedious as you 
 are constantly platforming with not much difference throughout the game except for the occasional 
 diversified boss battle which are definitely the highlights of the game mode.
  
  Classic chronicles your character in a series of battles which differs every time you play making 
 the variety limitless. Speaking of characters (thanks to the pleas of fans) of the last game many 
 characters now have been revamped in order to give each character a select feel but sadly disappoints 
 with a few (I would name them but they are both secret characters) . 
  
  Versus is probably the most important aspect of the game which most people will be playing and 
 will be probably playing way after they have finished the single-player modes. There are a plethora 
 of modes to play so explaining them all would take too long and besides many of them are more fun 
 if they are explored for yourself but under all of these modes nothing really takes over the original 
 brawl. All the content that it holds really cannot compare in the end to brawl. You can customize 
 this multiplayer feature to the full extent from what weapons appear to whether you have a partner 
 on your team instead of a straight free-for-all.
  
  All in all this game shines in many aspects and makes up for the lack of ones in the old game by 
 making a complete game that will probably be the best wii game on the console for a while to come. 
 If you have a wii console and have not played this game then give it a try most likely by the time 
 you play for 10 minutes you will be fully engrossed in a game that delivers simplistic gameplay 
 but engaging gameplay nonetheless.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spitfireMK3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  If you have a Wii, why aren't you playing this right now. It combines famous characters from classic 
 franchises like no other fighting game on the market. There is so much to unlock in SSBB, it's 
 insane. And once you're done with the single player, there are nearly infinite hours of fun to 
 be had just brawling with your friends locally or over wi-fi. Why are you still reading this when 
 you could be playing the best the Wii has to offer?! Easily my favorite off-line game I currently 
 own. Wi-fi can be laggy sometimes, but that is nothing compared to all the content in this game. 
 But I was using a PC wi-fi connector on a slow computer. One more problem with this game: no CD-i 
 Link. That would have been the icing on the cake! If you have ever been a fan of a Nintendo series, 
 you need to at least try this game. Now if you don't mind, I'm going to go play Brawl! LAWL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metal-Guard
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 21, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Brawl. One word could instantly spark the ultimate idea, the greatest four player fighting game 
 ever. Nintendo's signature style is shown in flying colors, we couldn't expect more because this 
 game represents all Nintendo could bundle into one massive game. Brawl has a key advantage, an 
 expansive single player/co-op adventure mode to draw in players an exelent amount of beutiful cut 
 scenes fill in the spaces after the stages which you go through. Although repetitive, the boring 
 stages are what you will want to get through if you want to know what happens next. Just the idea 
 of a story about Nintendo's biggest icons (with the inclusion of Snake and Sonic) is awesome, but 
 you have to experience it before becoming a really big Nintendo fan again, you'll never go back 
 to your PS2 and play it the same after this game happens to you, trust me. After single player 
 is over you have a massive amount of unlockables to unlock, possibly too many. It could take you 
 months, heck YEARS before getting every last unlockable trophy, sticker, ect. This list of acheivements 
 requires you to do just about everything the game could offer (event complete objectives on intense 
 mode) and then some. Who would do the Home-Run Contenst with every character? The guy who wnats 
 the sandbag trophy. After you unlock every character and go through classic and all-star difficultys 
 to get all of the sweet player throphys you need friends to go any furter, its time to brawl. Nintendo 
 packed in the best Items, summons and super attacks to keep you brawling with friends until the 
 rooster crows in the morning, and you wont be bored. This game shows how awesome Nintendo can be, 
 and if Microsoft or Sony could beat it with a collaberation of their original franchises, I'll 
 be honored to say good job. But they wont, this game is unbeatable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctores143
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 21, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Ok so I waited a while to write this review just to make sure I played every nook and cranny in 
 this game. To be short the game is amazing! But let me break down the basics
  
  graphics:10 out of 10. Some of the cutscenes look like they came out of starwars.
  
  controls:10 
 out of 10. There are 4, yeah thats right I said 4 controllers you can choose to use. The best one 
 in my opinion is the gamecube controller but you can also use the classic controller, wii remote 
 sideways, and wii remote and nunchuck. They all work decently well but heres a list from 1-4 on 
 which ones the most accesible
  
  1: Wii remote and nunchuck: Its great for starters to the series but veterans might find it a little 
 weird
  2: gamecube controller: Its great for veterans and all the buttons are close together so it's not 
 bad for new people to the series either
  3: classic controller: its a lot like the gamecube controller except for the fact that the shoulder 
 L and R buttons are cramped and the analogs are a lot looser
  4: wii remote sideways: the bottoms are realy cramped and it feels awkward. I dont think anyone 
 realy likes it
  
  gameplay:10 out of 10. This game last forever and with a variety of modes like story mode, classic 
 mode, all star, multiplayer, and even ONLINE this game is sweet and the replay value is off the charts!!!
 
  
  overall:10 out of 10
  
  I love this game and it's so replayable. I will never get bored of it and unless your an xbox nutt 
 i suggest you get it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaMeR4Life93
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2008 10:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is an instant classic. I got this game about two days ago and I have already played it 
 for more than 10 hours. I have never ever played a game this fun. What I like about SSBB is its 
 maturity. It's not as childish as the others ones was. I feel that this game has too many strong 
 points. It is family friendly, non-repeatitive, and just and addicting game. One of it's weakest 
 points is its online play. All I can say is LAAAAAGGGGGG. It skips just way too much, so nintentdo 
 please update this games server!!!! PLEASE, LOL. =) //////// So personally I can rate this game a 
 10/10 and some day ( if you don't have it) you should buy it because it won't make you or your 
 wallet sad. If you really have alot of doubts about this game you should go to youtube and watch 
 some of the gameplay videos or just check out your local gamestop and ask questions. The gamestop 
 that I live near allows you to play SSBB so thats how I made my 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakjakjak323
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 30, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  bad first
  now why is there still clones i mean cmon nentindo said no clones and falco and wolf and lucus 
 are clones and taking aout dr mario umm nentindo soulda made it an alternat outfit like wario has 
 his orginal and his warioware outfit
  and there needs to be more charicters like kristal or bomberman (yea i know he isant nentindo but 
 cmon he woulda been cool in the game right) and since snake is in it why not anuther konami chariter 
 like simon or maria (castlevania)
  and didnt nentido promis more than 40 chariters
  and the masterpieces cmon nintedo why demos y not more chariters i mean cmon demos that last only 
 30sec-5mins when you can get demos on the PSN and Xbox marketplace that last about 15-20 mins
 
  and the game took up 8.4 gigs right then take out the usless stuff and put in better stuff like 
 more chariters and stages
  and the create a stage cmon nintendo you just give us some blocks and tell us to build a stage 
 i mean look at the stages in the game but making stages like a tetris stage makes since with just 
 blocks
  some chariters are cheep but sonic isant cheep hes just fast and weak super sonic ha i can doge 
 that in my sleep but ike is cheep hes fast and strong (fast and strong cmon it sould be fast and 
 weak or slow and strong not fast and strong this sould be in bad thoug what ever)
  and the wifi is awful i mean cmon nintendo fix the wifi its laggy and most of the time you will 
 get disconected evan when you have no conection problem
  i mean the ps3 and xbox360 games all have better conection than ssbb and i mean look at anuther 
 wii wifi game like mario kart wii you can conect to 12 ppl without lag i say melle was better with 
 the chaleng to unlock chariters and stages to
  now the good
  there about 10 more chariters than melle wow just 10 needed more
  the stages are good but stage 
 builder needed more work
  the music is just awsome
  the subspace emsar was good but it was alittle long and you can unlock every chariter there i unlocked 
 every charater in under 7 hours
  some new chariters are good like king deedeedee and metaknight (he can be cheep if you know how 
 to use him) sonic (i dont get y ppl call him cheep) ike (now ike is cheep) giga bowser (hes bowsers 
 final smash but he is cool to play as to bad its only 15 seconds)
  -----------------------
  now overall this game is overrated and it needed more work but am i saying its a bad game no im 
 just saying it needed more work btw the stage bulder compare it to stage bulder like LBP or THUG2 
 ( not as good as LBP but still better than brawl btw if you dont know THUG2 stands for tony hawks 
 underground 2) and that was my review and i bet alot of fanboys of this game will hate me now and 
 i will never change this review unless its to fix spelling
  so SSB4 better be better and no clones more chariters (well every fighting game has clones but it 
 will need less clones) more stages and no demos
  and not have every chariter unlockble by the story mode and a hard final boss and a better stage 
 bulder and much better wifi
  but still this is a good game i say buy it but i say it was extreamly over hyped and rated 
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerhomeroom
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Great graphics, game play is perfect, every thing you would want in a video game. Characters are 
 amazing, and I learned about Nintendo Characters that I didn't know existed. With ALL the new items 
 that you can pick up (Poke' balls baseball bats ect.) it makes the game a whole lot better. The 
 Smash Ball attacks are AWSOME, and different characters have different attacks that make all characters 
 equal. Only improvement I could see was being able to play as your Mii. Courses are really cool, 
 with the different game-play on each one. SSE (Sub Space Ema' something) is also very fun. There 
 is no more to this review, but I have to get 800 characters so leave NOW! Internet rocks Internet 
 rocks
  Internet rocks
  Internet rocks
  Internet rocks
  Internet rocks
  Internet rocks
  Internet rocks
  Internet rocks
  Internet rocks
  Internet rocks
  Internet 
 rocks
  Internet rocks
  Internet rocks
  Internet rocks
  Internet rocks
  Internet rocks
  Internet rocks
  Internet rocks
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: youthebestboy
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Thats right folks better than halo, cod4 or any of those other 1st Person Shooters. The multiplayer 
 and new challenge board are a definite upgrade from melee. The new characters make up and more 
 for the old characters we lost. The story mode is fun (except for the giant maze) and it hooked 
 me for days trying to get all the multiplayer stages =) . I am not good at this game but beating 
 the clasic mode is fun and with the new characters its a whole new experience everytime you pick 
 up your wiimote, classic controller or gc controller. So far i have beaten clasic on very hard 
 with all the characters except for jigglypuff and R. O. B, just cuz they flat out suck (lol) .
  
  I highly recomend skipping the rental process with this game because you need that time for 
 the 11 hour subspace emisiary, unless ur a total nerd like a friend of mine who beat it in one 
 day. If you are planning on playing multiplayer online before you finish subspace, well lets just 
 say that wouldnt be logical, would it? The more you play this game the more you understand how 
 much fun it is. No i do not broadcast my friend code and i do not recomend doing so. That is a 
 major flaw that the Xbox360 perfected. With that code peopl that work for nintendo can track you 
 down (if you are under 16 which is a good amount of people who play this game)
  
  The Flaws are as follows:
  1. Useless charcters Jiggly ROB and Wario
  2. Lack of creation items 
 for created maps.
  3. Repetitive gameplay (dont play more than 3 hoursa day people)
  4. On the easy side
  5. Anoying music
  
  But nevertheless i give it a 10 and will not budge 
 that score.
  I hope you guys found this accurate
  
    YTBB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthmario123
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is the third installment of the Super Smash Bros. series. It is one of 
 the best games on the Wii because of its insane multiplayer. You will find yourself having a great 
 time playing with your friends, or even the CPU. The character roster is bigger than ever with 
 35 characters! There is also 41 stages to play on. With the stage builder, you can create your 
 own levels. The adventure mode is different than the adventure mode in Melee. It is called the 
 Subspace Emissary. The SSE is the story about all of the characters joining up to take down a powerful 
 enemy. Brawl has a few modes in common with Super Smash Bros. Melee before it . It has Classic, 
 All-Star mode, Target test, Muli-man brawls, and the Home Run Test. There is also a secret mode 
 you get by completing Adventure mode. In addition to the huge number of trophies, you can also 
 collect stickers. There are 4 ways to play Brawl. You can use the Wii Remote, Wii Remote+Nunchuk, 
 the Classic Controller, and the good ol' Gamecube Controller. You can also take your brawling online 
 via Nintendo Wi-fi Connection. The only bad thing about brawling online is the lag. Like I said 
 before, SSBB is the definition of great multiplayer games on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattnmunch
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 5:34 pm PT
Review:  This game has surpassed Melee in every way possible. From characters, to wi-fi, and even down to 
 the music! IT would receive a 10 from me except a few reasons held me back from dropping the 10/10 
 bomb. 
  
  First, for me and my friends there is usually some form of lag online. You find a good game, then 
 BAM! Someone leaves and a new person comes in with loads of lag. 
  
  Next is the sportsmanship online. There is always a really cheap character in about 7/10 games 
 played online. This character goes by the name of Ike. Ike's also another problem with me. He hits 
 much too hard for a playable character and Nintendo tried to balance him out by giving him horrible 
 speed. This is where everyone learns how to make him move faster than intended. Also people usually 
 leave after they lose or after they win.
  
  My final issue with the game is some of the challenges are just plain impossible. A certain challenge 
 in particular is extremely time consuming because it requires completion of 100-man brawl with 
 every character.
  
  Excluding the above points, this game is mechanically perfect. It has very balanced characters 
 except for some. Most stages are extremely fun but most people play on the simple stages for the 
 pure fight. The items are always able to turn a game around, especially the smash ball. All in 
 all this game is great. Buy it, don't rent it. If you rent it you will regret returning it. If 
 you buy it, see you online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dzyun
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  This is my first review. This game is one of the BEST games I know of, but I do not understand 
 why they got rid of characters from melee, like Roy. Also I do not like how they left character 
 like the Ice Climbers in the game. The combos have more to be desired, like that there SO SHORT, 
 like that Fox's combo is now only five or nine hits long. The good points are that there are so 
 many new characters like Pit and Ike. Also there are so many new stages like there Snake's, Olimer's, 
 Pit's, and Wario's. The reason that I spend forever is that this game is that this game is one 
 of the best replay value I know of. The best thing is that if don't have 4 Wii remotes you can 
 use the old Gamecube controllers. That is all I have to write about this game!! =-) Please remember 
 this is my first review.  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Venoroth53535
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. is one of Nintendo's main attractions, without it, Nintendo just wouldn't be 
 Nintendo. One asset that has always intrigued me was the fact that Super Smash Bros. had all of 
 Nintendo's famed characters, from Mario, to Link, to Samus (of course, the Wii release has more 
 additions to the characters) , a game such as this one makes me wish the PS2 or XBox had its own 
 "Super Smash Bros"-type game. Super Smash Bros. Brawl has easily made itself Wii's best, and Nintendo's 
 true potential. The visual graphics for Super Smash Bros. Brawl is phenominal for the Wii console, 
 and the adventure mode is definitely more extensive for the players who enjoyed them. The stages 
 are still large enough to house an entire realm on one screen, and now, players are even able to 
 craete their own maps! Luckily, Super Smash Bros. Brawl has inherited the old controls, making 
 the game easy to grasp, although the new Wii remote allowed players to have a sense of something 
 new. The first time I played Super Smash Bros. Brawl, the controls seemed somewhat awkward for 
 the Wii, but was just as easy to grasp as the GameCube release. Nonetheless, Super Smash Bros. 
 Brawl still has its charm from the very first release, it hasn't gotten worse, it has only gotten 
 better. The environments are diverse, and there are more characters to play as, some which are 
 new to the Super Smash Bros. family. This is truly Nintendo at its best! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlbusDumbledorr
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Brothers Brawl. An awesome game, and yet that is the understatement of the eon. One 
 of the best sequels I've seen in a long time! With the multiple controls, and custom controls, 
 this game really sucks you in, you can rarely put whatever controller you're using down! We see 
 some old friends from Super Smash Brothers Melee, and plenty of new ones. And now, with Wi-Fi capabilities, 
 the game is even better! With better 3D graphics, better sounds, more things to do, this game is 
 a must have for anybody. Now with different events to unlock many different parts of the game, 
 it becomes addicting as you try to collect them all. There are also many different things to collect, 
 characters, stickers, rewards, and other different items to help you along the way. And now with 
 the new feature, Subspace Emissary, the game is that much better. I give this game two thumbs up, 
 no doubt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achilles194
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  best game on the wii defintly and the best ssb ever with more characters more items and more stages. 
 There are now two non nintendo characters in brawl in edition to nintendo characters! The day it 
 came out I played it all day my eyes were glued to the screen and it never gets old with all the 
 explosions and weapons at your disposal every game is differnt and smash balls are alw3ays fun 
 to get and use giving an edge to some characters and changing how you play the game. You can also 
 get all the characters in single player or multiplayer so if you dodn't enjoy that part of the 
 game you dodn't have to play it. If you dodn't like nintendoes stages you can even make your own 
 and make all kinds of funky places. The music is the best in any game for there are hundreds of 
 songs you start with and can collect over time, Finally there are millions of mini games and extras 
 that you can unlock or just start with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: falling12234
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  SSBB is a great game. I found it way better than SSBM because of the larger selection of brawlers, 
 the stage builder, online play, and new awesome stages. It is a game that everyone gets into, its 
 great for when you have people over. The graphics are amazing and the music is fun and entertaining. 
 The Final Smashes add to the games greatness for final smashes can deal-out some major damage and 
 they are fun to watch! I got addicted so early to this game. The wait and money for the game were 
 worth it! I recommend this game to everyone! The new game mode: The Subspace Emissary is fun to 
 play and watch all your favorite characters come together. A new feature added to the game was 
 that you an collect stickers! It is awesome to watch your sticker collection grow! 
  The Multiplayer was fun for my sister, brother, and I! Multiplayer can be user in many game modes 
 including: Classic mode, Multi-man Brawl, The Subspace Emissary and many more. 
  Ok so my final score: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkrogue87
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 18, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  I was let down on the date of release keep being postponed, but it was very worth the wait. They 
 enhanced graphics, gameplay put in new characters and many new options. The story mode is now more 
 of a story. They tweaked many things in this game. There's now a save replay option, make new stages, 
 they fit the Melee stages in, they put in new event, new bosses, changed character moves, added 
 items, more special brawl possibilities, camera shooting at anytime, final smashes, added compatibility 
 with any Wii remote, allowed use of the gamecube control, added assist trophies, adding chances 
 the song will appear on the stage, and choosing songs to go with your stage. The best 4 player 
 fightinggame I've ever played. This is sure to hit the Wii classics . If there's anything I've 
 missed please tell me :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pharoah__Link
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 18, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Yea... this game is that good. What makes this game so special is that this game is great in parties. 
 Unlike games like the Legend of Zelda where it's only 1 player. There is nothing wrong with this 
 game... absolutly perfect!!
  
  GamePlay: Well I only played it with the GameCube controller since I hate the Wii Mote (with passion) . 
 The controls are easy and simple. The characters are all fun and are equally deadly in the hands 
 of a pro (even Jigglypuff) . Single player is fun, but the multiplayer is a different story... Online 
 multiplayer is great for many reasons. Fun, easy and the other players don't see your name and 
 you don't have stats so you don't "lose" anything or people won't quit the game because you suck. 
 Also you can watch matches, you can train before the game starts. Perfect...
  
  Graphics: The Wii's graphics are exactly the same as the GameCube so it doesn't look that different 
 from Melee. But it's not a bad thing. But the CGI Cutscenes look beautiful. There is also NO framerate 
 problems. Arguably the best looking game one the Wii. 
  
  Sound: The music is great (especially at Shadow Moses Island) . The sound effects are great. Enough 
 said about the sound.
  
  Value, tilt: There are too many improvements over Melee so I can't really list them. I wouldn't 
 say,"BUY A WII JUST 4 DIS GAME!!!!", personally I hate the Wii, mainly because of the Wiimote crappiness. 
 Too me this game would have been a failure if I had to use the Wiimote and Nunchuck. If you have 
 a Wii buy this game. If you don't have a Wii, just go to a friend's house and play this game.
 
  
  I never thought I would do this but...10/10. This game really deserves it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capcom49
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 18, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  Well if you played the original games then this is no different then the others, Its FANTASTIC! 
 (as my friend Frank West would say) The game play is smooth and the Final Smashes are stunning 
 and Marvelous. The controls are based on ones own feel and creed, but I prefer the Nintendo Gamecube 
 controller. The game now has a complete story in which all characters emerge into. And the trophies 
 and stickers will get you to continue playing. The character selection is half and half though, 
 I felt that it was way to easy to unlock the secret characters unlike "MELEE" and that there would 
 of been more. But I can settle for Solid Snake, in which is not his first appearance in fighting 
 games like Smash Bros. I believe he was put into "BRAWL" because of his appearance in HUDSONS DreamMix 
 TV World Fighters. The wall of unlockables make playing this game competitive and versus is still 
 fun with all the crazy things you can do especially now with the custom stage creation. The only 
 sad thing in this great game is the ONLINE play, its slow, very slow like using DK on a race stage 
 with Fox. I bought a Wii back then knowing that this game was to be made (as well of playing Twilight 
 Princess) And the final 2 coin related things that make this sequel best is at the end you shoot 
 characters and trophies to gain coins and instead of the capsule machine you put coins in hoping 
 to get a new trophies its a shooter game. I'm done, I'm gonna play more now maybe Ill see ya online! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Platinum_Pikmin
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 18, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl has finally arrived and with it the inevitable billions of reviews. I will 
 be reviewing it it 5 categories so let's get started.
  
  Graphics: Well all bets are off on this one, Brawl has enough technically proficient graphics to 
 make you forget your playing a Wii game, almost. You can still run through other character's, merging 
 your frames which looks really ridiculous.
  
  Sound: All the famous Nintendo characters grunts and squeals are present and accounted for, but 
 there is another part to sound that Nintendo seems to have sewn up. The soundtrack is amazing, 
 spanning original tunes and remixes to almost 300 songs from across the company's history!
  
  Gameplay: What can I say, it's exactly like Melee except with more characters and a boatload 
 of new features. Some new characters take the gameplay in new directions like Captain Olimar, who 
 relies on his Pikmin and Poke'mon trainer, who can switch between 3 different poke'mon.
  
  Single Player: Brawl has never been about single player, but in this time around the developers 
 created a more filling Single Player experience. On top of the usual Classic and All-Star modes, 
 the developers have created a new adventure mode titled the Subspace Emissary. It is a fun diversion 
 and helps you unlock the 35 characters in the game.
  
  Multiplayer: Here is where the fun begins, playing with 4 friends with equal experience is the 
 best multiplayer on the Wii, bar none. The online play leaves something to be desired, so it's 
 best to call your friends and set up a multiplayer session.
  
  This game will be the best selling game on the Wii so if you own a Wii, run (don't walk) to the 
 nearest game store and buy this game. For $50.00 it's a steal. Then feel free to send baked goods 
 to me. And remember, you catch a computer with an inter-net
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dan2002sk8er
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 18, 2008 2:13 am PT
Review:  I don't know where to begin with this game because there is so much to it. There are more characters 
 than ever before there are more levels, more game modes, more, more ,more ,more everything. This 
 game really has it all, when it comes to a fighting game.
  
  The Character roster is the best part of the game. Including most of your favorite Nintendo characters 
 like before, but this time Konami's Solid Snake from Sony's popular Metal Gear Franchise, and Sega's 
 Sonic the Hedgehog snuck on board. the list is so expansive that to unlock all the characters there 
 are special things you need to do, like when you choose Samus you need to hold the right trigger 
 on the Classic or Gamecube controller while selecting her to become Zero Suit Samus. Also Zelda 
 you can click on the picture of Sheik to become Sheik, same goes for the Pokemon Trainer. 
  
  There are more levels including all your favorite stages from Melee. Plus a stage builder to 
 create your own.
  
  All of the game modes return with the addition of the Subspace Emissary which is a full featured 
 10 -12 hour long side scrolling game that features all the Characters in the game with a cool and 
 Funny story line. 
  
  Over all this game is great and the Multi player battles never get old. I would gladly recommend 
 this game to anyone who has a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklord239
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Smash bros has become a little nintendo game back on you N64 to a full blown franchise that now 
 sits tall with the Halo's and Gear of War games. This is really one of those games that is just 
 another reason to pick up a wii. If zelda didn't do it, most likely it was SMG, if it wasn't SMG 
 then your running out of reasons why you don't have nintendo's little white box. Brawl is just 
 the definition of fun. The object of the game is simple, beat the crap out of everyone until you 
 win. Nothing hard or fancy. But the amazing thing brawl does is cater to all the hardcore smash 
 fans, and still make it simple enough for noobs to get into. there are 4 different control types 
 to use. gamecube, classic, wii mote, or wii mote and nunchuck. If you have your gamecube controllers 
 still those are the best to use, but if you can't get your hands on one the second best is the 
 classic controller. Single player wise its more beefed up with a new subspace emissary mode. If 
 you've ever played kirby its almost identical to that, just with everyone from nintendo. While 
 you may not like it, it does help you unlock every single character in your first playthrough. 
 It does help that its coop too. Multiplayer wise this is the reason smash is even popular to begin 
 with. Its still a ton of fun to play with your friends and will almost never get old. While not 
 too much has been changed there is one new thing called the smash ball. When your character get 
 this he or she can unleash a finishing move that is so powerful and over the top. Speaking of the 
 characters in smash this is the biggest line up yet, and the best. While it would have been nice 
 to see a little more third party love, whats here is just fine. So what are you waiting for, stop 
 reading this review right now and get to the store and buy brawl now if for some reason you still 
 haven't. Its arguably the best wii game right now and is well worth a 50 dollar price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caiquebarsil
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is a totally complete game:
  It reunites all of Your favorites characters for a battle game. But don't think that this is all. The 
 multi-player mode is awesome, with many characters, items, levels (You can also create Your own 
 level!) , mini-games and much more! You don't have friends to play with You? Don't have other controller (Oh! This 
 game supports: Wii remote, Wii remote+Nunchuk, Classic Controller e Game cube Controller) , don't worry, 
 this games has a incredible single-player mode (That can also be played by two persons) , with a 
 great story (Which was made by the same man who made FFVII's story!) , great levels (You can play 
 with almost every character of the game!) , a and many (Really many) items to collect. You have finished 
 the single-player mode? Have collected all the items (What takes a long time to do...) ? Don't worry 
 again! This game offers many events, mini-games, secrets and more!
  So, if You buy this game You don't even need to buy another game for at least one year, because 
 it takes a long time for complete this game and a greater time to get tired of playing it. If You're 
 not convinced yet, check the development team and You'll see... Only the musicians team is totally 
 colossal... COMPLETELY RECOMMENDED!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: griffripper
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  You know, what with it's simplicity and value this game get's high marks. But I want to point out 
 the issues first. Numero uno: from a game with so many characters and weapons to use in this game, 
 I was kind of surprised to find that there is no downloadable content.
  I mean I know the Wii is no Xbox 360, but maybe at least a new Poke' Ball to download or a upgraded 
 weapon of some sort. Number two: The online play. Yeah well like I said, the Wii isn't an Xbox 
 360, but the online play had a lot of lag. And I have a great internet connection. And Number three: 
 Confusing? Yeah it can pretty confusing at some point. when you've got 4 people using laser swords 
 and poke' balls all at the same time, you're gonna get confused and look at some other characters 
 that's not yours.
  Now the good things, well, everything else. ecspecially the kind of forge thing they have going 
 on where u can build your own stages.
  Plus the characters. They had so many previous Nintendo character cameos, like the dude from "Punchout", 
 and for some reason Sonic the Hedgehog and Solid Snake are in there. Don't know why? But Snakes 
 my favorite one. Another thing, you can use The Wii mote, Gamecube, Nunchuk/Wii mote, and Classic 
 controllers. I would recomend the Nunchuk/Wii mote. In other words it's a very simple game, and 
 everyone can pick it up and play. Which is always a good thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dotXtreme
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Brother's Brawl is the highly anticipatedwellbrawler brought to us by the folks of 
 Nintendo. After much delay and hype the game is finally here for us to cherish. Does this game 
 deliver? Yes, this game meets all expectations on every level, and continues what its predecessors 
 did best, with worthwhile improvements. Although the game is everything we expected the game was 
 probably talked about a little too much, but if anything this game proves how one game can bring 
 so many people together. The series is now introduced to online, and with that the game has seemed 
 to create its own community of "brawlers" if you will. And that is the most exciting part about 
 this game, the community and the ability to play anyone, anywhere. Although there are problems 
 to this game that I will address, many of them seem to be more technical than anything, and really 
 have more to do with Nintendo than the actual game itself. One such example would be the unreliable 
 online modeAnyway here is my review of the game.
  
  Gameplay- The game brings back much that is old and blends it with that that is new. You have your 
 basic Smash gameplay from the previous game Melee, although everything feels much slower, making 
 the game much more friendly to newcomers. You basically hit each other, and the higher your percentage 
 goes up, the easier it is to be knocked out of the stage. This time the game is introduced to the 
 Smash Ball, an item that makes the already crazy fights even crazier. Once in a while this ball 
 will come floating in, and the one who gets it may unleash their ultimate move on their opponents. 
 Some characters "Final Smashes" as it were, are pure strength, while others are more strategic. 
 And don't forget about the Dragoon item, a ship that when a player collects all the pieces, the 
 player can aim at an opponent for a chance at a one hit K. O. The game allows you to use a wide 
 range of controller types, from the GameCube controller to the sideways Wiimote. Motion controls 
 are optional with the Wiimote/Nunchuck combo, which is used for smash attacks, and is surprisingly 
 responsive. Although the same addictive nature of the previous titles returns better than ever, 
 the only problem is that it still is more of the same, lots of the single player modes lack the 
 same level of interesting gameplay as the multiplayer, and it can get repetitive. Luckily for this 
 style of game, that isn't too much of a bad thing. 9/10
  
  Graphics- Now we all know that the Nintendo Wii system doesn't hold up as much compared to other 
 consoles not-to-be-named, but I will look at this based from what the system can do. The game is 
 a revamped Melee in terms of looks, although the characters are much more highly details. On Mario, 
 for example, you can see wrinkles on his shirt and the like. Although nothing too amazing, some 
 parts of the game really stick out. One being the cutscenes in the Subspace Emissary mode, where 
 you can see Nintendo's finest in the highest level of graphical glory that you have ever seen them 
 in. Other impressive points for example are in certain stages that have moving backgrounds, that 
 look pretty nice to boot. One such stage would be in MetaKnight's stage (my favorite character 
 by the way) , where you can see his ship flying round and even shooting at you. There are also very 
 bizarre stages like the picto-chat and warioware, which just adds to the "frenzy", as it were. 
 The game is by no means as fantastic looking as Super Mario Galaxy for example, and someone who 
 doesn't look close enough may mistake it for Melee. But the game provides many great flashy graphics 
 at certain points that make it look above average. 9/10
  
  Sound- The most surprising point of this game is the quality of sound. Not just the characters 
 voices but the fact that the soundtrack is so well made. The theme song is one of those things 
 that will stay playing in your mind for a very long time to come. Not to mention that there are 
 hundreds of unlockable songs that you can listen to whenever you wish. The music ranges from original 
 scores to remixes of classics and then the classics in their original forms. It seems that every 
 nostalgic tune from Nintendo's long history has been packed into this game. Other than that many 
 characters, in fact all the returning ones pretty much sound the same as before. One thing that 
 was lacking in previous installments was amazing music, and this time the series delivers. Never 
 would I have imagined that one of the greatest points of this game would be the sound. Quite possibly 
 the greatest game soundtrack ever. 10/10
  
  Value- Here's the big one, and another one of Brawl's strongest points. Super Smash has always 
 been known for its high level of replay value and addictive multiplayer. The trick this time is, 
 that the game not only delivers in those aspects, but now it goes well beyond that, in fact I would 
 go so far as to say the creators of this game put every idea that they thought of into this game, 
 that's how much is in it. First off you have a much longer (although mediocre) single player mode 
 that spans up to 8 hours or more. Then there are all the various event matches as well as a stage 
 builder and the ability to take screenshots and the ability to record you 3 minute matches and 
 a seamlessly infinite amount of unlockables and the ability to Brawl online andthe truth is the 
 amount of things packed into this game never ends. Did I mention that there are now 35 characters 
 in the game? A huge improvement compared to Melee's 20 something roster. It was proven that Melee 
 could last 7 years and remained at a price tag of $35 because it sold so well over the years. There 
 were always tournaments and more and more people playing the game, becoming one of Nintendo's most 
 popular creations. If Melee lasted 7 years, this game can for sure outlast that. 10/10
  
  Story- Super Smash Brother's Brawl has a "story" mode if you will called "The Subspace Emissary". 
 It is basically a 8 hour or so long adventure telling the story of how everyone comes together 
 and saves the world. It really doesn't make any sense but you cannot possibly expect it to with 
 such a weird mix of characters. The biggest problem with this mode is that the gameplay feels like 
 a very cheap platformer, that most Super Nintendo games would put to shame. But in all honesty, 
 the Boss fights, beautiful cutscenes, the fact that it gives you more to do to get unlockables, 
 and the fact that it isn't the game's main attraction make it all worth it. 8/10
  
  Multiplayer- This is the game's shining star and the part of it that will have you playing for 
 years. Multiplayer is the most addictive part of Smash, because it is so unpredictable. Whether 
 you're a seasoned veteran or a newcomer to the series, you are almost guaranteed to have a good 
 time. And now with online, there is no need to worry about having to play by yourself, resulting 
 in absolutely unlimited life for this game.* I can safely say that I have had the funnest moments 
 multiplayer-wise while playing this game. 10/10
  
  When It is all said and done, this game is a must buy for every Nintendo Wii owner. There is absolutely 
 no reason why you should not buy this game, unless you can't stand the gameplay style for some 
 reason. Not that the game is perfect, because it has many flaws. The game is great mainly based 
 on the fact that the main attraction, its multiplayer, is so unique. And if multiplayer isn't your 
 thing, you might enjoy the single player. But then again if you don't like multiplayer then this 
 game isn't for you. I think that this is the best multiplayer game released in Nintendo's history. 
 If you have this game online be sure to PM me and we will duke it out. And for those that say that 
 this game doesn't use motion controls stand corrected, because in the Wiimote/Nunchuck control 
 options, motion can be activated. I myself prefer the classic GameCube controller though. But that's 
 just the thing about this game, there are so many options and so many ways to play, that just about 
 everyone will have a unique experience with it. The game is by no means revolutionary, but it delivers 
 its promises. I'm done, this game lived up to the anticipation, buy it.
  
  *Note: I did not mention the online issues with this game because that is something that is not 
 directly caused by the game but by Nintendo's servers not being able to handle the traffic. Online 
 issues have not been taken into account in this review. Same goes for the Wiis who cannot read 
 the SSBB discs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krendog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best Smash Bros. to date. It is no doubt the best multiplayer on the Wii. It 
 is a highly addictive fighting game with literally hundreds of possibilities. You have different 
 game modes, different characters, tons of stage, and thousands of collectible trophies and stickers. 
 You have characters ranging from the Mario franchise, the Legend of Zelda series, the Star Fox 
 series, Kirby, Metroid, AND MANY MORE. Their is no doubt that you won't find a character you'll 
 like. The single player mode "The Subspace Emissary" can be a bit boring, but I enjoy the classic 
 and all-star modes. There are so many different multiplayer and singleplayer modes to choose from. 
 I am highly addicted to this game and when I get bored of my other games I play this! I recommend 
 it to anyone with a Wii and anyone that loves spontaneous fighting games that are pure awesome. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithsmith07
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  If you have ever been a fan of any Nintendo franchise, you will probably find your favorite character 
 here. I personally am a fan of Link and he has had a nice upgrade from previous versions of the 
 game. The amount of unlockables, characters, and secrets is exhausting. You seem to uncover something 
 new every time you play, whether its through the beautifully cut-scened story mode, or just brawling 
 with your friends. The balance of characters is nice, as no one character is completely superior 
 to any other, with the right person playing that is. You will want to practice with one or two 
 characters to really get a feel for the fast pace brawl action, but this is only to give you a 
 better chance against your competitor. If you haven't gotten a chance please check this game out 
 as you will most likely find someone that you cant help but want to merc your friends as. Find 
 me online if you dare, but Link will merc you like all the rest. Master Sword bizatches! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwooduhs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 1:43 am PT
Review:  Any person that considers themselves a gamer that has never heard of Super Smash Bros. needs to 
 whack themselves silly with a copy of Brawl and hide under a rock in fear of beating by Nintendo 
 fan. But the percentage of people who have never heard of Super Smash Bros. would have to be in 
 the 1-5% range, but in case you are one of those rare gamers Super Smash Bros. is a game that features 
 many Nintendo characters that have there own special attacks and what not. You pit them against 
 each other so you really can find out who the best is, but this time round it also includes non-Nintendo 
 characters. For example Solid Snake and Sonic the Hedgehog (we can finally make Mario and Sonic 
 fight each other!) . For about an hour before I wrote this review I was thinking of what genre this 
 would be classified as, and in the end I decide on calling it an 'Alternate Fighter'.
  
  With a roster of 35 characters this time around, including fan favorites like Mario and Pikachu, 
 you can spend a lot more time just picking which character suits your fighting style.
  
  Brawl also brings a surprisingly story mode to the table. Its called Subspace Emissary, its quite 
 jumbled and very random at points but the cut scenes make up for it. They are very well done and 
 just makes it so obvious how much time an effort was put into the game. It runs very smoothly except 
 for some rare moments when a lots happening on the screen and in Brawl, there always a lot happening 
 on the screen so it holds up surprisingly well.
  
  As far as the fighting goes it's the same as all the other Super Smash Bros. games were, absolutely 
 crazy four player fights where anything can change in a second with the pick up of an item, and 
 the occasional forgetting which character your playing as because you glanced a way for a second. 
 With some very imaginative stages based of all the characters games, there are plenty of variations 
 as each of the 40 stages available has got its own unique advantages and disadvantages, like the 
 WarioWare one which keeps changing. And once you're bored with those stages you can just create 
 you own, which makes for nearly unlimited gameplay.
  
  But like previous Super Smash Bros. games the best way to play is with other people. Multiplayer 
 has always been one of the strong points of the games, with a supposable hidden depth that I myself 
 don't entirely understand. Theres also a whole new layer of strategy with the addition of assist 
 trophies and Final Smash moves.
  
  In conclusion Super Smash Bros. brawl is just a spruced up Melee with 9 additional characters and 
 a couple of new features, but hey, why change something that everyone bought, multiple times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeavenNathious
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Many good things about this game. It is truly great. One of the greatest fighting games that I 
 have ever played. It's addictive. Period. Nintendo really delivered on the fanservice, giving you 
 a ton of stuff to unlock and do. The battles feel a little different, but are more streamlined 
 this time around. The Final Smashes are awesome. The story mode and 1 player mode have also seemed 
 to be more focused on... well... one player. A bunch of characters are there for you to unlock, along 
 with things like stickers, trophies, and BGMs. Plus, not only this, you can even make your own 
 stages! Now that's truly amazing. The wi-fi is also great fun, too. However, there are a few minor 
 drawbacks about this game, in my opinion. It seemed like it was too easy to unlock the characters. 
 Not much of a challenge. In Melee, you needed to do a lot more to get the characters. The gameplayer 
 felt a little clunky at times, but that's not much of a problem. But all in all, thank you very 
 much, Nintendo, for giving us this great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkrul3s
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Millions of Wii owners around the world can rejoice because the next installment in the Super Smash 
 Bros. series is here and it is better than ever!!! The game is packed with soooooooo much content 
 that I don't think that it is possible to explain it all.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is the simple smash formula of weaken the opponent then smash them off the 
 field. This time there are over 30 different characters to choose from and two of them are not 
 from the Nintendo world: Solid Snake and Sonic the Hedgehog. Every character has their own unique 
 advantages and disadvantages so the fighting is very balanced. The newest part of the game is the 
 deadly smash ball. Once this item appears everyone should make a mad dash towards it to break it 
 open and use their respective final smash to massacre the opponents.
  
  Graphics: The graphics have definitely been updated from Melee and the frame rate holds up incredibly 
 well even during the hectic online battles. The artistic design is incredible because it holds 
 the design for all the series.
  
  Sound: The sound is absolutely aweseome in SSBB. This game holds all the classical tunes from Mario 
 all the way to the Zelda soundtrack. There is no dull moment when it comes to the music.
  
  Online: The online play is awesome in Brawl. For the first time ever you can compete with players 
 around the world in Brawl. It is a lot of fun but it is nowhere as fun as having friends over and 
 playing. Also the infamous friend codes and the lack of voice chat dim the experience. Since there 
 are so many things you can do in online play the few flaws can be forgiven.
  
  Single-player: The campaign in SSBB is known as the Subspace Emmisary and it is a true blue campaign 
 with a story. The SSE is a bit on the repetitive side but is fun nonetheless. The best part about 
 it though is that it is an easy way to unlock most of the characters in Brawl without being forced 
 to go through hundreds of matches to play as the character you want to. Other single player options 
 are the event mode, home run contest, target smash, and much more.
  
  Other features: Brawl comes out with many other things that are a lot of fun. The stage building 
 is a bit on the shallow side, but it is still a lot of fun to build crazy stages that are hard 
 to play on. Also the spectator mode allows you to gamble and make bets with who is going to win 
 so that is a lot of fun. I would like to name other things you can do but I want you to explore 
 SSBB yourself and find out what it has to offer!!!
  
  What I am trying to say is go buy the game now or I will personally come to your house and burn 
 it to a crisp. Thank you. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Smash bros. comes back in a big way. It has one of the biggest character selections every. All 
 of the characters balance extremely well, so Yoshi lovers are welcome to use their favorite dinosaur. 
 There are multiple characters from different games so you'll find someone you like. Subspace Emissary 
 is an excellent addition to the traditional arcade fighting ladders. There are tons of trophies 
 and bonuses to unlock and will keep you busy for quite some time. The graphics are revamped from 
 old melee and blend in well. The levels are great, along with some old melee levels as well. It 
 is very pick up and play, but hardcore gamers will also be able to still pwn noobs with the almost 
 hidden strategy behind the fighting game. the soundtrack is a great mix of classic songs that will 
 get you in the nintendo vibe. The online is another great addition, although you may take awhile 
 to get a game going and friend codes are absolutely useless, we need a constant friends list or 
 something similiar. Nothing is better than getting a group of friends together and arguing over 
 Smash Bros. Ive only played it with the wiimote and nunchuck, and the gamecube. i found that if 
 you loved the gamecube controller for melee, you'll feel the same for this one. I actually prefer 
 the nunchuck and wiimote because all of the buttons are easy access and you can set an A smash 
 to your wiimote so you can shake it and do a quick smash attack. The only trouble is the grab command 
 is A and B or the left or right on the d-pad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamz1115
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Like little children eagerly awaiting the arrival of Christmas peopl are waiting to get their hands 
 on Super Smash Bros. Brawl. Well, your suffering is about to come to an end: soon, you too will 
 come to find out what we Gamers already know -- Super Smash Bros. Brawl is simply amazing. The list 
 of things it does right is downright mindblowing: an eclectic roster of fighters; a finely tuned 
 fighting engine; a seemingly endless array of unlockable content; an undeniable sense of charm; 
 and eye-pleasing visuals are just some of the things that Brawl gets right.
  
  Oh, and did I mention that it has online multiplayer? Not only can battle against your friends, 
 you can take your skills online and challenge gamers all around the world. If you think you cant 
 wait for Brawl to arrive at your door step, consider this: other people have they're copy of Smash 
 Bros. Brawl waiting and are just itching to hop online.
  
  And start honing your skills because I'll be online waiting to kick your butts! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tchacker
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  If your looking for a fun multiplayer and are a nintendo fan than this is the game for your! Personally 
 i am a smash bros fan and i was shocked when they anouced that it was going to come out and it 
 was worth it. The graphics are outstanding, also the cutscenes are phenomenal. But the story can 
 get a little diffucult but other than that its not bad. plus all the collectibles like the trophies 
 and stickers, i know theres about over 544 trophies! another great feature about this game is that 
 you can save your replays and take photos in the middle of a battle. One feature that i think is 
 awsome is that you have these games called masterpeices which is just old school games like zelda, mario, metroid, ect. 
 You can also unlock masterpecies. But like i said great game and any nintendo fan should buy this 
 game because its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bornabuckeye
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Where do I start? 
  
  SSBB is the best multiplayer I have ever had. The controls are easy to learn, the action is non 
 stop, and the gameplay never gets old. The graphics are some of the best to be found in any game 
 albeit the simplistic design makes it easier and promotes less detail. 
  
  You can play SSBB with three different control styles. I personally like the wii mote only version. 
 Its simpler and faster. But having the controller option was a great idea (how about listening 
 to that EA!) .
  
  The story mode is where this game seperates itself. No more is smash brothers just a multiplayer. 
 The story mode is real interesting and makes SSBB a game that you will play a long time after it 
 was bought. 
  
  In addition to the story mode you have the Versus mode where you battle against some ridiculous 
 odds and of course the master hand to win characters. 
  
  These two compiled with the regular battle mode for friends makes an outstanding game highlighted 
 by free online multiplayer that ensures you always have someone to play with. Great game with good 
 old fashion fun at heart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyberdarkkid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  After being delayed for about 3 times Super Smash Brothers Brawl is finally released. This is one 
 of the most highly expected games in history and it makes history for the Wii. Following "Super 
 Smash Bros. Melee", "SSBB" arrives for the Wii with even more characters, more moves, more items 
 more combos, and lots of new stuff. The game mechanics are amazing once you get used to them. You 
 can master many combos and even enlarge them with new items during battle. The game counts with 
 a variety of characters unlocked in Sub Space Emissary (story mode) , each with their own very unique 
 moves. There are also new stages better than ever with new items that you can use to "Smash" your 
 opponent and send them flying, as well as the special "Smash Ball|" that powers up your character 
 and allows them to pack their "Final Smash". The Story Mode is very decent as well as the events. 
 Multi-player is just fantastic, battling your friends with all these features deserve respect. 
 It's only fault (and a very small one) is a minor platforming stage issue in Sub Space Emissary 
 that didn't really have to be there. Overall, this game is very worth buying and "must" be in everyone's 
 collections. You will never regret buying the game because it offers hundreds of hours of fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suliman-Uchia
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  
  So the most anticipated title of 2008 wasn't guaranteed to strike my electric fancy. But, when 
 you add WI-FI play for free online brawling and custom controls in order to configure anything 
 from the Wii controllers to the old school (4 variations on play) you've got me curious. Add to 
 that the longest list of cross-title cross-era characters ever produced (Thirtysomethings: remember 
 "Battle of the Network Stars" ) . Characters from `87s' Kid Icarus (Pit) and Metal Gear's Snake, 
 Pikachu and various Pokemon. Loads of Mario characters including the man himself: Diddy and Donkey 
 Kong (Donkey Kong dating from Mario's 1981 coin-op premiere of the title of the same name) , Wario, 
 Yoshi, Princess Peach, Bowser, and more. Other melee cameos include the Ice Climbers, Metroids' 
 Zero Suit Samus, Kirby, King Dedede and his Meta Knight, Sonic, LINK & Zelda (from '86 and on) , 
 Star Fox, Lucas & friends from Mother 3... and lots of other unlockables. Some noteable, but Non-playable, 
 assist trophies include Devil from Devil World, Star Fox's Andross, Mr. Resetti from Animal Crossing, 
 Little Mac from Tyson's Punch-Out and even Excitebike ('85) is on the scene. What is particularly 
 cool about these appearances is the consistency of style for each character regardless of genre 
 or era of the characters. Nintendo has outdone itself on graphics on this one, even when they are 
 "dumbing" down the graphics for cross-game effect. The sound effects are true to this as well, 
 with as many retro SFXs as cool new ones. 
  
  Options for play include Solo vs. PC, Multiplayer play vs. 3 friends or on-line options. Other 
 options include the Classic game (you beat `em you advance) or a storyplay campaign which is surprisingly 
 worthwhile. The variety of Brawl locations and is amazingly broad as are the detailing of each 
 location gimmicks. From Yoshi's Island to a stadium to the exterior of a StarFox ship sailing the 
 stratosphere, this alone will extend the life of BRAWL's replay longevity. Characters move satisfyingly 
 fluid, and their variety per character is exciting.
  
  The Mini-games are fun and nice samplings of other titles, both new and old. If fact, many of these 
 made me ready to seek out some games I hadn't looked at before. If anything BRAWL is a great sampler 
 title. 
  
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is going to be top of the "4 player fighting" genre for some time to come, 
 I think. Well worth the release push-back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeldafan1234
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is why you buy a wii no matter what. Totaly worth every penny. It gets even better when 
 you have friends. The online mode is practically flawless with a solid frame rate and i rarely 
 get some lag. This game is loaded with stuff to do its hard to put it down and theres alot and 
 i mean alot to unlock so it keeps the you coming back. O and the cg scenes in the single player 
 mode is amazing yes their is now voice or words but you get the idea of the plot yes its a simple 
 plot but its really well done it even has alternate cg scenes for replay value. But the single 
 player isnt where its at but it sure is hell of fun when you use these stickers you collect in 
 the different modes in the game that give you power ups and such. The game really covers Nintendo's 
 history and the collection of trophies is a lot of fun that tell you about a certain character 
 item etc. Dont wait your really missing out on a great buy. This is what games should do and thats 
 bring games together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Its_a_me_luigi
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game ever. It has a great selection of characters. PS3 graphics, and tons of unlockable 
 content, you'll be playing this till you die or the next Super Smash Bros. game comes out.
  
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is perfect. There are flawless controls, four types of controllers, 
 and you can customize the controls. Characters are balanced out eliminating tiers. The fighting 
 is amazing and perfectly fits the advanced gamer and the casual gamer. It's be almost impossible 
 to not realize that this is on of the best games ever made.
  Gamepay=10
  
  Graphics: Wow, these are beautiful. Subspace Emissary cutscenes are gorgeous. The game itself is 
 beautiful. The characters sport a darker color that perfectly fits the game.
  Graphics:10 
  
  Sound: The greatest songs from allover Nintendo's history. More than 300 songs, and some new 
 songs that are amazing (I even downloaded the songs and put them on my Ipod.)
  Sound=10
  
  Presentation: With a lineup of 35 characters, around 1000 trophies and 2000 stickers, 41 stages, 
 stage-builder, subspace emissary, event matches, and many more, this game will be played for years 
 to come.
  Presentation=10
  
  Value: You'll play this game forever. I'd buy it for 1000 dollars. at 50 it's a steal.
  Value=10
 
  
  Overall: This game is absolutely perfect. There is nothing else I can say about it.
  Overall=10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superluigi96
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  After two delays, Brawl has come out for the Nintendo Wii. As it was probably the most hyped game 
 for the system, it makes sense that it's also one of the best.
  The first thing you'll notice when you start playing Brawl is that it plays almost exactly the 
 same as Melee. Except for a few additional fighting techniques and some tweaked character moves, 
 the gameplay is almost identical to the GameCube version. Some people would have you believe this 
 is laziness on the part of the developer, but honestly, how would you feel if they had completely 
 reworked everything about your favorite Melee character? The returning characters have remained 
 mostly unchanged because people have gotten used to playing them over the years, and changing everything 
 for change's sake would just alienate people. Fortunately for those wanting something new from 
 this title, there's plenty of new characters and maps to occupy you.
  Aside from the new characters and stages, there are also a lot of new items to enjoy, most notably 
 the Smash Ball, which bestows upon its holder a one-shot super attack called a Final Smash. Each 
 character has a different Final Smash, and while they are all really showy and relatively powerful, 
 they're not game-breaking. The Smash Ball floats around the stage so that everyone has an equal 
 chance of getting it, not just the person it spawns beside, and even getting the Smash Ball doesn't 
 necessarily mean you're getting a KO out of it. If they start to frustrate you, however, you can 
 always turn them off.
  The game also features four controller types. I've seen people play very well with the nunchuk, 
 classic, and GameCube control schemes, but I've never seen anyone play well with just the Wiimote, 
 so if you don't have any extension controllers you'll probably want to invest in a few. The game 
 also lets you configure your controller to your personal preferences, so you can map commands to 
 the buttons you choose.
  Although multiplayer has always been the draw of Smash Bros., this installment includes a vast 
 single-player adventure mode called The Subspace Emissary. It's a good attempt, but the Smash Bros. 
 gameplay doesn't exactly lend itself well to side-scrolling adventures, and the levels can get 
 pretty repetitive after a while. The boss battles are fun, but I wish there were more of them, 
 and I wish there were more iconic boss battles like Petey Piranha instead of original Subspace 
 characters. Aside from that, the cutscenes are beautifully rendered, and it's fun to watch all 
 the different Nintendo characters interact, so it's definitely worth playing through at least once. 
 (It's also the quickest and easiest way to unlock most of the characters.)
  Brawl also includes online play for the first time, and I have to say I was less than impressed. 
 First of all, in order to play against your friends you're going to need to exchange friend codes, 
 a system that Nintendo seems adamant on maintaining. Fortunately there are a multitude of play 
 options for you once you do this. Not only can you play against each other, you can also compete 
 or team up in Home Run Contests, Target Smashes, and Multi-Man Brawls. Random matchmaking play, 
 however, is much more bare-bones. You can't play anything except 2 minutes brawls (although you 
 can choose to play teams or not) , and there's no form of communication with your opponents. I've 
 also had a few issues with playing online. Sometimes the frame rate lags, and sometimes there's 
 a gap between when I press a button and when my character responds. From what I've heard from others, 
 however, this hasn't been a big problem for them, so it may just be my connection. Either way, 
 despite the lack of options, online play is free, so even if you end up not liking online play, 
 at least you didn't have to pay for it.
  Overall, Brawl is a solid title. Along with graphical updates, it brings enough new characters, 
 stages, and items to separate itself from its predecessor, and enough unlockables to keep players 
 busy forever (seriously, there's a lot of unlockables) . If you're a Smash fan or just a Nintendo 
 fanboy, you can't go wrong with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big_daddy-113
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Street fighter 4, Street fighter 2 HD remix, King of fighters 12, Guilty Gear Accent Core, Soul calibur 
 4 and the most anticipated of the bunch Super smash brothers brawl. 2008 is no doubt year of the 
 fighters. 
  
  What we have here is a game where all Nintendo characters and other parties under Nintendo's belt, 
 come to join a massive battle. We also have two third party developers here. Konami and sega. Hideo 
 Kojima (Man who made metal gear) wanted to have Solid Snake as a character in brawl. Sega has some 
 sort of deal with Nintendo or something so Sonic is in it. But not to ramble on about the characters 
 because there are LOTS. But let us go deeper into the land of brawl
  
  The Super Smash series has always been known for it's awesome multiplayer action. With some fun 
 single player action to dig into as well. What will raise a few eyebrows though is this interesting 
 "Subspace emissary mode" It plays out like one of Mashiro Sakurai's own kirby series with a map 
 and some baddies who need to be stopped. It dose'nt really hold out on it's own but thank lord 
 it is'nt your only option. One problem I had with the subspace emissary was it's core platformer 
 design. The platforming feels very tacky and uninteresting and the stages are repitetive. The only 
 things that are new are the boss battles. If there was one thing I love it would be the cut scenes. 
 If Captain Fox McCloud crashes his Arwing into a jungle who will be there to investigate? Diddy 
 Kong of course!
  
  But enough with that part of the single player you can also play the classic mode which was included 
 with all the Smas Bros. Games. You can also test your skills in the home run competition, Multi 
 man brawl, and target test. Theese felt mroe perfected then they did in Melee and they just got 
 plain better.
  
  4 paragraphs into this review and I still have'nt talked about the multiplayer! Oh what joy the 
 multiplayer is. You have the choice of playing with bots (which is what I spent most time in my 
 brawl playthrough) or you can play with friends online or off, and the big addition to the smash 
 brothers series is the first time we have seen online.
  
  The online I must say. Is bearable for the most part. Some times online with strangers is extremley 
 laggy and at most of the times unplayable. I know lag is a commen problem you face in video games 
 but Jesus, look at what I have to work with here! One match I was playing me as Lucas vs. Snake 
 vs. Samus and everytime a smash ball went on stage the whole game locked up. I think Nintendo and 
 Co. Completley missed the point of online gaming. We use online to MAKE FRIENDS and COMMUNICATE 
 WITH PEOPLE. We don't use it so we can play with people we will never face again. 
  
  Well if you're looknig for a party game, a game you can play competitively, for something to do 
 when your bored. Look no further Brawl will keep the living room rocking for months.
  
  Overall Brawl has the perfect ending to a perfect series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendofan2321
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash bros. Brawl has been one of the most antipacting games for a long time. But it has 
 finally come. But why is it so good? Let's Find out! 
  
  Gameplay: 10/10 
  
  The Gameplay is just amazing. The solo modes even support co-op! The first mode ill talk about 
 is Subspace emissary, Which is the story mode. It is when all the nintendo worlds sorta of clash 
 together and it ends up being heros vs. villains for awhile but then the vilains join up with the 
 heroes to defeat one main target (that im not gonna spoil for those who don't have it) . I think 
 all the other game modes are here from melee. The other modes are event, classic, training, brawl, 
 special brawl, etc. There are a total of 35 characters and 41 stages so thats alot. 
  
  Graphics- 8/10
  
  The Graphics are pretty good but not amazing. The designs on the characters 
 are still very great. So are the stages designs to. 
  
  Sound- 9.5/10
  
  This is full of nintendo classics and remixs. They could have put more music into the game but 
 there is stll alot of good music in the game. 
  
  Replay value- 10/10
  
  You will probably be playing this for years for how good it is. It is one of the best multiplayer 
 games ever and even solo isn't as boring as some people might think. 
  
  Overall-9.5/10
  
  This game is a must for any wii owner. It is one of the best games on the wii and one of the 
 best games right now! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shutupthe3rd
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  This game is so huge, if I were to include every feature about every character, game mode, and 
 unlockables, it would take up hundreds or thousands of pages. Not only that, but every page would 
 be in tiny print.
  
  Breakdown-
  
  Idea- Take a four player fighting game, make a unique "damage" system that makes the goal sending 
 a character flying off the screen (a perfect fit for the Havoc engine) , load it with items to make 
 it crazy, then load it with simple and crazy stages which include a stage builder, and pack as 
 much Nintendo into the dual-layered disc as humanly possible. Then, give it some great and addictive 
 1-Player and Co-op modes. Not only that, but make sure the items set a balance between noobs and 
 verts.
  
  Technical stuff (not including graphics) - No problem. The comic-book esque hit frames are perfect 
 for a game that's so fast and focused on combos, and the hit detection, control detection, and 
 framerate are wonderful. Wi-Fi isn't as bad as you may think, but the game starts having control 
 detection problems during matches. (A. K. A. minor lagg) Sadly, the game has loading issues, but 
 for a dual-layer game on the least modern console this gen, who cares? Plus, the AI is amazing. 
 It's not cheap like it was in Melee (remember how lvl 9 Bowser could do a dash-grab without moving?) 
 and is also much smarter (don't expect them to walk into a Motion-Sensor Bomb or fall off because 
 of an easily dodged Meteor Smash) . Plus, they do expert techniques like edge-hogging, chain-throwing, 
 and juggling, making them unpredictable. If that's not enough, the rumble feature helps you feel 
 like you're playing as a light or heavy character (it rumbles when Bowser walks, but only twitches 
 lightly when Fox dashes) .
  
  Graphics- Fabulous! The best on Wii (just look at the debris on Mario and Link) and retro to keep 
 verts (look at Kirby, he hasn't changed much since the 1998 original!) playing.
  
  Music- Great. Almost every song comes from a Nintendo game, and there are excellent arrangments 
 for each one. A "My Music" feature lets you choose how often certain songs play on certain stages, 
 and there are loads of songs, with a CD feature letting you unlock them. Even the new songs made 
 for this game are great (listen to Final Destination) . Unfortunately, some tunes are ripped straight 
 from their original game.
  
  Sound Effects- Sweeeet. The voice-acting is awesomely bad and good at the same time (expect phrases 
 like "Playtime's over, StarFox", "Victory... is my destiny", "Watch the power of the..... RRRRAAAAAAAAAAAAAGH!!!" 
 and PK.... STAAAARSTOOORM!!!!") , the attack noises make you feel like you're actually in there, 
 swinging your legs in the air or pounding an enemy with the palm of your hand, and the menu sounds 
 are retro, making them awesome. If that's not enough, Japanese accents have been taken out for 
 every non-foreign character in the US version, and replaced with their American voices. (Fox has 
 his American StarFox 64 voice again!)
  
  Playability and Entertainment- While the WiiMote control schemes are cleverly inplemented, they 
 are awkward fits for the game. Still, it's better than not including them, and you can use classic 
 or GameCube control schemes if you wish. WaveDashing has been reasonably taken out (along with 
 a few clone characters from Melee) but the removal of L-canceling is inexcusable, exspecially for 
 a game that puts such an emphisis on midair combat. And teching made it back in, but not L-canceling? 
 Shame! Other than that, the items make noobs that neglect to use their shield have a chance. The 
 game is floaty so that you feel like you can fly, and beating up your friends is excellent fun.
 
  
  Content and Replay Value- Here we go, the essence of Smash Bros. So much, that you'll play it and 
 play it and it doesn't get old until about 10000000000000 hours of gameplay. In other words, massive 
 ammounts of content and infinate replay value.
  
  Ok... that's over. Anyway, time for a few dissappointments not mentioned in the breakdown. Everything 
 else is great.
  Most 1-player modes get repetitive when not played in co-op, especially the last level of the Subspace 
 Emissionary, which actually repeats total layouts and turns them into a maze.
  The AI still has some flaws (it ****ing guarded a CD, garunteeing I couldn't get it!) , but those 
 flaws usually only occur on custom stages. Then again, the stage builder is lots of fun.
  Ike is incredibly overpowered. Sorry, speed demons. You'll have to make do with Sonic, and lose.
 
  Now dissappointments for Melee players...
  Fox got nerfed, but not to the extent where he sucks. That kind of thing happened to Samus.
  
 Wavedashing, L-canceling, and several characters got removed. Sowwy.
  Characters have grown, Melee stages have shrunk.
  Cruel Brawl is nearly impossible. You are almost 
 as light as the Alloys normally are, and the Alloys are heavier than you normally are. Ha.
  
  Anyway, besides some errors that rest in a HUUUUGE game, the Brawl mode will be all you need. 
 That's not enough for the developer Sora... there are tons of other game modes keeping you entertained, 
 but Brawl is the best. Invite three friends over, turn all items on, and have a nice deathmatch 
 on Final Destination. That, my fellow reader, is called "classic". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2008 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl seems to be the best smash bros yet and has lots of interesting details 
 to keep you playing it 24/7 everyday. one thing for sure they could of made it harder to unlock 
 all the hidden characters in the game, (bought brawl a couple days after came out, first day playing 
 it i beat subspace quick and got all the charcters quick. some modes seem to be the same as always 
 like classic, target pratice and maybe homerun contest, except now you can have 2 players hitting 
 it far away. some other modes can be long and even hard on the eassiest level like boss battles, 
 what a pain that is. anyways lets talk about something else than what different modes there are, 
 when you win a singleplayer mode matches you gain coins which you can use on some arcade thing 
 in the vault called coin launcher which will give you more trophies and stickers to your collection. 
 the map editor seems to be dull at first but when you unlock more parts you may spend more time 
 making maps than fighting cps. i made a map called d ea th where it has only has 2 blocks and lots 
 of spikes everywhere. the wifi multiplayer matches to me seems to not work sometimes cause of a 
 lag of to many people online but you still have fine match online. also with the wifi matches you 
 can spectate some and bet your coins on who is going to win, (i vote on pit alot because he is overpowered 
 at times) . the creaters of the game could of made some more characters for game like sonic palls 
 tails, knuckles or shadow and they could of got rid of some like jigglypuff and the starfox trio 
 that have the same moves and smash ball attackes. 
  
  overalll this game is plain fun and enjoying and im still trying to beat all the challenges in 
 the vault. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedGuy93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. is way better than the 1st and the 2nd. There were many high expectations for 
 this game, and nintendo definitely achieved them. I got this game the 1st day it came out with 
 my own money, and I don't regret that at all.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  The graphics really improved from Melee. The only thing is that the screen is way too far away. 
 Maybe it could move such as in Soul Calibur. But, on the other hand, I don't have to grab my contacts 
 to see these graphics. The movie segments also are clear and have good quality.
  
  Controls: 9.5/10
  The moves are average in this game, but the quickness and ability of the controls 
 really stuns me. It is so amazing that I can't keep the controller of my wrist. When I mean the 
 moves are average, some of them are, such as Metaknight, Pikachu, Kirby, Luigi, and others.
  
  Gameplay: 9.8/10 There is so much to do in this game, you will never be bored. The Adventure 
 Mode is very organized and in-depth. However, it is particulary easy until you get to last stage. 
 If you think Taboo is easy, then you're on video game roids. Also, Classic mode is great, but why 
 would you want to do target smash twice? Also, Boss Battles suck, and are simple. 
  
  Multiplayer: 10/10 Smash Bros. is the greatest multiplayer series of all-time. You can do brawl 
 mode, tournaments up to 32, event matches, boss battles, special brawl, training, and more! It 
 is also a lot of fun to play on Wi-Fi or rub your win in your friends/enemies' faces!
  
  Characters: 9.5/10 The characters are a blast to play with. They have a wide range of variety, 
 and are exciting to unlock. However, I would've like to see Paper Mario, Boo, Paper Bowser, Bowser 
 Jr., Birdo, Master Hand, and Taboo as playable characters (or at least a few from that list) . Also, 
 they should take Olimar out of the list; he is useless and bad without Pikmin. Other than that, 
 I love Ike, Wolf, Ganondorf, Captain Falcon, Samus, and others. I love the Final Smash features 
 for each player, except Luigi and Peach (no damage) . However, Luigi should've had vacuum suck as 
 his B move (Luigi's Mansion) , and not fireball. If you want to use fireball, use Mario. Also, I'm 
 glad they got rid of Pichu and Dr. Mario, but how could you replace Mewtwo with Lucario? Oh well, 
 it still gets a 9.5/10.
  
  Fun: 10/10 It's a blast to play, and it is addictive, but GIVE ME MORE!
  
  GRAND TOTAL: 9.63/10 
 (had to round to a 9.5, though)
  
  Thank you for reading this review and I appreciate your time. Peace! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: despa1r_fact0r
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  What a wait for this game, but the wait is well worth it! This is by far one of the best games 
 on the Wii. Just like Melee before it, Brawl will be the best selling game for the Wii. 
  
  Graphics --- The characters in Brawl are Excellent! You can see the amount of detail that went 
 into each character. Mario looks like he's actually wearing denim coverall! Not only did a lot 
 of detail go into the characters, but each of the new stages are stunning! The amount of detail 
 in the Game and Watch is amazing. To actually use cell shading in the manner to almost duplicate 
 a LCD screen was beautiful.
  
  Sound --- I was grinning ear to ear when I first heard Link speaking from the Wii mote on the character 
 select screen! Each character sounds great for what little voice tracks there was. With an extensive 
 game library that Nintendo has I knew this game was going to sound perfect. I also LOVED the new 
 Road to Viridian City song.
  
  Controls --- The Smash Bros series has never had a problem with controls and Brawl continues this 
 pattern. Actually it continues it in four different control schemes: Wii Mote, Wii mote and Nun 
 chuck, Classic, and GameCube Controller. I prefer to use the Wii Mote and Nun chuck because I love 
 the button mapping, but at times I do pick up the GameCube Controller.
  
  Game Play --- This is where I'm going to talk about the Sub Space Emissary portion of Brawl. This 
 story mode is well worth the cost of the game. There is an excellent story to SSE, and there's 
 no talking to tell it, instead you get these excellent cut scenes that tell the story. They paired 
 characters up in a unique style, which added humor when they interact with each other. As far as 
 game play, this is a perfect side scroller with just the right amount of difficulty to make it 
 very enjoyable. I played SSE from the minute I brought the game home until I beat the SSE. Nintendo 
 did add a lot of co-op to this game that I enjoyed especially the home run contest and the events. 
 There is also a challenge mode and a stage builder that adds new ways to play the game. Challenge 
 mode will take some time to complete them all, and stage builder makes new stages so things don't 
 get stale! Now for the icing on top of the cake has to be the Wi-Fi, playing friend via online 
 makes midnight Brawls with friends possible!
  
  Overall --- For Famitstu to give this game a 40/40 comes at no surprise at all! This game had it 
 all and some more I can see why Nintendo had to use a Dual Layer DVD to make this game. This is 
 a MUST HAVE game for any Wii owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragoneye278
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  The super smash bros saga has been taken to a whole new level. Packed with a great roster of nintendo 
 characters including sonic and snake. Don't be fooled, because this fighting game has a full story 
 that just goes on and on! Replacement characters are sweet too. This game provides the ultimate 
 game play for anyone. You can even create your own battle ground! The new final smashes are a nice 
 touch too. The two player mode in the subspace embassy mode is a great touch too. It might be annoying 
 fighting minions the whole time in story mode but it is al it's best when you fight people. Tons 
 of mini games that are still cool will satisfy you in the best way possible. Man you can fight 
 master hand crazy at the same time! Unlocking everything could take years which is cool! Is this 
 game awesome or what? I say it's awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jzayas40
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Ultimate game. The best one I've ever played, better than Pokemon Diamond, Pokemon Emerald, Pokemon 
 Ruby, Mario saga, Super Smash Bros melee, and a lot more games. It has amazing characters. It has 
 a great addition to the smash bros crew, Sonic. A guy in Sega now in a nintendo game. It has amazing 
 graphics, even better than Mario Galaxies graphics. The first day I got it I played like five hours. 
 It's incredible. If you don't have a wii or if you just got one, buy Brawl. The best game ever. 
 No game is going to be better than this one, unless they made a new smashbros game with more than 
 thirtyfive characters. Stage builder is amazing and so is the adventure mode The Subspace Emissary. 
 The nintendo crew is back and better than ever. I hope this isn't the brawl to end them all. I 
 wanna play more smashbros games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: audslovespugs
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 24, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  I loved Melee, and when I found out about Brawl, I was excited. Although we had to wait much longer 
 than anticipated, it was worth it. It is one of the best multiplayer games the Wii has seen, and 
 probably will ever see. There are so many new features, like the Stage Builder that make fans of 
 the series happy and draw new players to the game. I love how the adventure mode became so much 
 more complex, with a storyline and everything. Melee's adventure mode was pathetic, and Subspace 
 Emissary was just what Brawl needed. SSE is a fun adventure mode for those who Brawl by themselves, 
 and I really enjoy the fact that you can save the world from Subspace with a friend battling by 
 your side. The characters are great, and although it takes a while to unlock them all, variety 
 is the spice of life. I also liked taking pictures while Brawling. That's just a fun little feature 
 that wasn't necessary but I am glad was added anyway. It's fun to go back and look at your greatest 
 moments in your Photo Album, or in Replays. I highly recommend this game to anyone who needs a 
 great multiplayer and loves to battle their friends. Brawl is the BEST! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _EXCON_
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Smash Brothers, every Nintendo fan boys dream of being able to pick one of their favorite mascots 
 from the big N, and beat the ever-loving stuffing out of each other. Playing the original on the 
 N64 was great, and once the Gamecube hit, and we promised a sequel, i can seriously say I was ecstatic. 
 Super Smash Brothers Melee is one of my favorite games of all time (and it still is to this day) . 
 Melee improved on so many mechanics of the original as well as having many new aspects that worked 
 great. It was one hell of a sequel.
  
  Now with Brawl, I was to believe we would receive that kind of sequel, but sadly it is a mixed 
 bag for me. Don't get me wrong, Brawl is still one great game, soem of the best multiplayer action 
 you get on one console (or online) . But the fact of the matter is, Nintendo didn't shy away to heavily 
 on the Melee formula, making Brawl feel somewhat of a clone to it's predecessor.
  
  Although The smash series was never intended to be a single-player romp, it's nice that their are 
 a few single-player features in this entry. Stadium mode and Classic are brought back, but the 
 new Subspace Emissary is introduced in this title. Nintendo's take on a whole new adventure mode 
 for the Smash universe. It's a nice addition, but unfortunately it feels tacked on. It's fun at 
 first but the repetition, lack of voice-overs whatsoever, and boring enemies will probably turn 
 many off. the mode seems to be naturally 7-9 hours long, so it can tick off those who just want 
 it to end.
  
  the Smash series always shined in it's multiplayer component, and in Brawl it is no different. 
 For some reason, however, it just doesn't seem as fun as Melee. I would find myself playing Melee 
 for hours on end, but Brawl i can only play for a max of 2 hours or less (with 4-players mind you, 
 not the single-player modes) , thereafter having to play somethign else. This can due to the fact 
 that it feels like a clone at many times, besides Final Smashes or cause it seems slower-paced 
 than Melee. To me it's these two reasons as well as the axing of certain sound effects. I'm sorry, 
 but these style of games (fighters, beat-em up, button mashers) have to have good sound effects. 
 Brawl took away many of the whacks and thumps i used to love in Melee, like the sound of the bat 
 when it hits someone's head after being thrown (it sounds really stupid now) or the loud smack from 
 Luigi's chop. Music on the other hand is really great in this title, offering up classics from 
 the Mario, Zelda, and Metal Gear series. Graphics on the other hand is a pure mixed bag of confusion. 
 The game does not look as good as Super Mario Galaxy or Metroid Prime 3, but at times can look 
 real great. But many times it can look blocky and blurry and can tend to look as good as Melee, 
 sometimes worse. I'm playing on a 1080p Sony Bravia LCD, it could be Wii games just don't look 
 goood on LCD's only DLP monitors.... I don't know.
  
  Now on the Wii, we can take multiplayer online through Wi-fi Connection. Here is one of the features 
 I was must looking forward to in Brawl, but feel like we all received the shaft. Being able to 
 play friends is fun, but the fact that Nintendo is still using it's hokey friend-code system is 
 stupid and unnecessary. Friend matches allow, just about as much customization as if you were playing 
 in the same room, but "Anyone Matches" allow for only a 2-minute romp with no customization to 
 be found anywhere. I don't who's idea that was, but it was a stupid one. Plus the fact you can 
 only have four-preset 20 character phrases as a means of communicating is uber-lame. WFC in this 
 game is a sure miss, which I hope is impoved upon greatly.
  
  The game offers up a total of 35 playable characters this time around. May seem a lot, but there 
 are many clones to be seen, far to resembling of other characters in the game or past entries. 
 Solid Snake, Metaknight, Olimar, Sonic, and Pit are great additions, but characters like Toon Link, 
 Wolf, Falco, Ness, Lucario, Marth, were not needed for being to similar to other characters. the 
 roster is good, but I was hoping for more varied cast.
  
  Brawl is a solid title, but I wouldn't go as far as saying it's the true sequel to Smash Brothers 
 Melee. It's more of an updated Melee with somewhat better graphics (at times) , a handful of new 
 stages and characters, and final smashes. I still have my copy of Melee, I would suggest others 
 to keep it as well. It's still a classic to this day, and I cansee myself going back to it, even 
 though I have Brawl. Nintendo did many things right with this entry, but it didn't do enough significant 
 changes to make Brawl stand out on its own. Hopefully the sequel will have less clone characters, 
 vastly improved online mechanics, as well as true sequel feel. Fans of the series, I recommend 
 purchase, no doubt about that. But, do not expect it to be a big change over Melee, or you will 
 be disappointed. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PokeMaster_Man
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Brothers Brawl is a very good game. Although, it is pretty hard in a few ways. This 
 game is to be completed would be the purpose of the video game. There are many modes of battling. 
 There are two types: Single Player and Multi Player. In Multi Player mode, there are a lot of different 
 combinations to battle with. Like a metal battle with everyone having metal all around them for 
 the entire brawl. The game calls the battle a brawl instead of a melee battle this time. back to 
 combos would be with metal, flower on the head, different types of gravity, invisibility attribute, 
 a reflected attribute, and other things that are new to Super Smash Brothers Brawl. In the single 
 player mode, there is something new to the single player menu. It's SSE, SubSpace Eminessary. The 
 game says it is adventure mode, but I think that is a lot more than it's supposed to have in it. 
 I think this is a very good game for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PikaPikaboo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  
  Super Smash Bros. is one of Nintendo's greatest game series ever created by bringing well over 
 10 of Nintendo's key franchises together to duke it out on the battlefield. Play as everyone's 
 favorite plumber, Mario, or even as the ever-so-loveable Pikachu. Who would win in a fight: Ganondorf 
 from the Zelda Series or Bowser from the Mario series? You can find out with the aid of Super Smash 
 Bros. Brawl at your side, or even better, in your Wii console. Super Smash Bros does well in bringing 
 the greatest fan-service to Nintendo fans all over the world.
  
  Graphically, Super Smash Bros seems to be one of the best looking Wii games on the market today, 
 right behind Mario Galaxy. However, visually, there are two ways you can play Brawl. You have the 
 option of choosing either graphics that are razor sharp or nice and smooth; either way, it's still 
 playable. As well as the in-game graphics, Miyamoto has done a great job with the cut scenes than 
 can be viewed in the Adventure Mode, The Subspace Emissary (more on that later) . The cut scenes 
 are beautiful to look at and pleasant to the eye. There are also no voice-overs, which keeps most 
 of Nintendo's characters still mute heroes. Even the intro to the game is superbly made. Everything 
 in the game, from the actual fighting to the beautiful cut scenes, are very fluid. It's hard to 
 stop watching and start playing. The graphics may be fantastic by Wii standards but it is nothing 
 close to your Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare.
  
  Honestly, Nintendo has outdone themselves in the music department. With fully orchestrated music 
 and tons of reminiscent songs, they have proven how the Wii isn't just awsome gameplay, but sound 
 as well. The Brawl disc alone (about the size of a DVD) has about 300 songs in its inventory. Not 
 only does the music sound stunning, even the melody of the menus will be stuck in your head (seriously) . 
 Many of the old songs are remixed though, giving it a modern twist on some old classics. A great 
 thing that Nintendo did was that they let you decide how often you hear a certain song on a certain 
 stage. If you absolutely hate one song (which is highly unlikely) , you can set it up so that you 
 don't hear that song often or even at all. This also lets you set your favorite theme song as frequent 
 as you want. Even the basic sounds of characters sound great. Pikachu's "Pika Pi" and even Link's 
 grunt sound amazing. Hard to believe, right?
  
  The gameplay is basically unaltered from the previous Super Smash Bros titles, however it is still 
 entertaining and has not even lost the lust from its 64 days. Compared to Melee, Brawl has many 
 new features including a full adventure mode and Wi-Fi Online playability. However, the greatest 
 change to the series is the new items, specifically the Smash Ball. The Smash Ball is essentially 
 a bright, rainbow-colored ball withe the Smash Bros emblem floating around the screen. The characters 
 have to break open the smash ball by attacking it to unleash an even greater attack. This special 
 attack is referred to as the Final Smash, which is a fitting name since this attack can easily 
 change the tide of a game. Solo-Mode still has the original Classic-Mode and All-Star Mode, which 
 have also remained the same. However, the new adventure mode has changed since a longs way. The 
 full-fledged adventure is now named the Subspace Emissary, where you control one of usually about 
 2 or 4 characters through a platforming adventure, much like Stage 1 of the Adventure mode in Melee. 
 The Subspace mode is very tedious, however the cut scenes make the platforming worthwhile. If you 
 do decide to play this, you have a chance of unlocking all 35 characters, which is a plus if you 
 don't want to play a ton of VS. Matches to unlock them. You still have your standard "Break the 
 Targets", Event matches, Home Run Contests, and Multi-man Brawl as well. It might just be me, but 
 I had hoped that "Race to the Finish" would return.
  
  The solo-mode, however, is nothing in comparison to the group-mode, Especially since the VS. Matches 
 are where the game is at. There's nothing like a crowd of people hovering around a television screen 
 and cursing their little mouths off. This mode is great with friends, family and sometimes even 
 by yourself. The new stages are outrageous, both in a good way and bad way. Some stages can be 
 extremely annoying (such as the 75 MM Stage) , but many are amazing. One stage I would like to discuss 
 is the WarioWare stage, one of my favorite stages. In that stage you still have all your crazy 
 brawling, but inside the stage is a dozen minigames that have that same WarioWare vibe from.
  
  The Wi-Fi matches are relatively lag-free. There are three options you are given: Play with 
 Anyone, Play with Friends, and Be a Spectator in an Online (Play with Anyone) Match. When you "Play 
 with Anyone" you are basically fighting other random people online. Unfortunately there are almost 
 no options available to you in online VS. and Friend matches. Random matches are automatically 
 two minute time matches. With Friend matches it is usually lag-free and the recommended of the 
 two Wi-Fi fighting. There are two cons about the friends matches. There is no voice-chatting, which 
 takes away the craziness that is Super Smash Bros. As a replacement they use taunts, where you 
 can type in your own messages. Nice, try, Nintendo, but no win. Another con is the fact that in 
 order to brawl with a friend, the exchange of friend codes returns. With friends, you can also 
 play a Multi-man brawl or Home Run Contest with them, but it is highly unlikely you'll do that 
 since Brawling tends to be more entertaining.
  
  Nintendo was nice enough to give us four different styles of play. The four controller types are 
 Wiimote, the Wiimote and Nunchuk, the classic controller, and the Gamecube controller. The Wiimote 
 is not as bad as everybody says it is, provided you are not a hardcore Super Smash Bros player. 
 The Wiimote just makes a new way to play the game. The only real fault that I can find with playing 
 like this is the shield aspect, where you have to hit the B button, which was very awkwardly placed. 
 The Wiimote and Nunchuk control method is also very awkward, especially if you've been playing 
 Super Smash Bros for a long time. Now, the classic controller and Gamecube controller is the recommended 
 style of play. The best part of the controls is that Nintendo has let you customize where you want 
 your buttons to be, so that it best suits you. That was a brilliant move by Nintendo.
  
  If you're wondering how long this game usually takes, the answer is forever. Just like Melee, I 
 can imagine gamers playing this a week from now, to a month from now, to a year from now, and maybe 
 even a decade from now (if they haven't already brought the sequel out by then) . The replay value 
 of this game is so high, that even casual gamers can find themselves playing this with their friends 
 often. Take it from me, a game with this much replay hasn't come out since the previous Smash Bros. 
 iteration. Overall, Nintendo kept the same formula for Super Smash Bros. Brawl as they did in 64 
 and Melee, and it still works.
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Graphics: 
 [8.5/10]
  Sound: [9/10]
  Gameplay: [8/10]
  Controls: [8.5/10]
  Replay Value: [10/10]
  Overall: 8.8
  
  For more Reviews like this, check: http://wiiniis-co. nr 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e_boulanger
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  Frankly, I simply don't understand the hype about this game. I was probably expecting too much 
 of it. But when the reviewer gave 9.5 and a lot of users gave more than 9, you should expect a 
 "top of the line" game that everybody should enjoy.
  
  Unfortunately, that's not what I found. For me, this game is just "average". The presentation is 
 well done, you have to give that to Nintendo. But as far as game play goes, it's just... well... 
 average.
  
  I played most of the time in Solo mode, and that's probably why I don't like the game. Game play 
 become very boring after a while. Once you get a good feel of the game, it's really easy to finish 
 it with any character available (I did not try on the hardest difficulty mode though) . The different 
 battle arenas are nicely done and brings some specific challenge to the battle, but not much. The 
 story mode is interesting at time, but the absence of a good "story" behind it makes it boring. 
 I did not even have the patience to finish it.
  
  It's definitively in multi player that this game gets really fun. Having friends around simply 
 change the "feel" of the game. Battles become less predictable and you need to adapt to your friends 
 strategy (and after a while, you even want to get in a real brawl with the punk that keeps sending 
 your character out of the screen) . The problem is that I don't play Multi Player very often ( I 
 played multi-player only twice) .
  
  The game also have some some annoying issues. First, the Wii does not always recognize the disc. 
 Restarting the Wii generally makes the game recognizable.
  
  Second, if you do not have a BIG screen, it becomes very difficult to follow a battle. I play on 
 a 28 inches TV. When there is a lot of player on the screen (4 players for example) and something 
 happens in the background, you can easily loose sight of your character. I did not played the previous 
 versions of this game but I was told that it's part of the game. Well it may be part of the game, 
 but when I loose, I want to know what I did wrong. And not seeing where you are simply does not 
 help.... I guess that why the game is called "BRAWL" and not "STREET FIGHTER".
  
  In short, this is the kind of game that if you like, you are going to be extremely satisfied with 
 it (my friends love it) , and if you don't like, you are going to be very disappointed. For my part, 
 I did not like it. I will stick with other type of fighting game instead. 
  
  If you are new to this type of game, I suggest renting it first to see if you like it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: twilight_69
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  At first I thought Nintendo would have tried to do something innovative with this but all that 
 was changed were the graphics, more levels and more characters. At first I didnt play because the 
 fights against computers were exactly like melee (therefore boring because it had all already been 
 done) . But then I started playing online. When putting aside the lag and the trouble of finding 
 people to play with online (play with anyone option) , it actually turned out to be more fun then 
 I expected. Playing with friends is always great too. Yet they should have placed a ranking system 
 or something to give us more of a reason to battle and to be more motivated to use different strategies.
 
  
  Pros: improved graphics, more levels, more characters, decent online.
  
  Cons: Impression of playing melee, online lag and lack of play with anyone people 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dean_Harper
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of Super Smash Bros. since the 64 days. Only last September did I get Melee, 
 but I had been playing it at friends houses as much as possible over the past few years. As I found 
 out about Brawl, I grew greatly excited, and now that I have it, I am definitely not disappointed. 
 Brawl has, of course, an amazing mulitplayer capability, since that has always been its main focus. 
 But what makes this game even better than the previous two is that it also has a medium-length 
 single player mode, combined with setups that can be played either solo or with someone else. This 
 idea is enhanced even further through the application of Nintendo WiFi and the multiplayer capabilities 
 it provides. Playing online may take a while to get connected to other people, but having an extensive 
 friends list makes up for this. The only real downside to the WiFi connection is that if you do 
 not have fast internet, or a choppy connection, the games are super laggy. 
  
  The character roster in Brawl is one of its shining aspects. 37 characters (including alternate 
 forms) make the game perfect for anyone, with any form of play. Brawl may be considered by some 
 to be a lot less competitive than Melee, since it does not contain the glitches such as L-canceling 
 and wavedashing. However, Brawl can be as competitive as any fighting game that has online capabilities 
 due to its emphasis on "in-air" combat. The physics of Brawl allow much of each match to be played 
 in the air, whereas Melee had more of a ground-dominated gameplay to it. Brawl also contains many 
 stages that provide a wide variety of play options, along with new items that make the game exciting, 
 including the Smash Ball. The Final Smashes (or FSs) given by the Smash Ball deliver (most of the 
 time) strong finishing moves that can give the upper hand in the heat of battle. Most are not terribly 
 unbalanced, as most are counter-able. However, some FSs, such as Fox's and Falco's and Wolf's are 
 very overpowered, since their sheer power can KO many opponents, either by blasting them, or pushing 
 them off of the screen. 
  
  Overall, Brawl is an amazing game that is perfect for any Wii owner, even if that person has never 
 played a Smash Bros. game. The simplicity of play makes it perfect for anyone who wants a good 
 fighting game.
  
  -Dean 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dadsrule626
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  SSBB (Super Smash Bros. Brawl) is a game worth every penny. I will review the good and the bad 
 of the game now:
  
  The GOOD:
  
   SSBB has a great story mode, the SSE (Sub-Space Emissary) is a lot better that Super Smash Bros. 
 Melee's. I played it for ten hours before I beat it, whereas in #2 you can beat it within minutes.
 
  
   SSBB has a wide variety of new characters, including:
  - Toon Link
  - Snake (From Metal Gear Solid)
  - Wolf (From StarFox)
  ... and many more, with some returning 
 from Melee!
  
  * SSBB has great multiplayer options. You can:
  - Sync extra Wiimotes w/ Nunchuck
  - Sync extra Wiimotes w/ Classic Controller
  - or Plug in 
 a GameCube!
  
  OR, you can play online through Wii Connect 24!
  
  
  The BAD:
  
   Can't name a thing.
  
  
  So, I highly recommend SSBB for all you fans out there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chavi03
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  I say this game is the best for the wii. It keeps all the classic stuff but then adds to it with 
 tons of new features like more  and bonus stuff. Multiplayer 
 is probably the best mode in the game because it has very good quality and literally never gets 
 old. This time character selection is huge with about 30 characters available. The final smash 
 is also a cool feature, you could be losing the match, you get a smash ball then turn the battle 
 around for a win. Its also a good and easier way to finish off your opponents. Snake may be a very 
 unclassic character but he is actually very useful, he has cool moves like grenade launchers, missiles, 
 and more. The soundtrack this time is so big that you wont remember all the songs! Songs in this 
 game feature a classic tune with a modern-day twist turning them from ordinary songs to masterpieces. 
 If you want the biggest game for the wii get super smash bros. brawl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: helium_flash
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  -Great Sound and Graphics - Great Value - Fun Multiplayer -Excelent Value -Fun new features -Addictive
 
  
  The Bad:
  -Load times can be long -Pathetic online -Story mode disappointing
  
  
  The Super Smash Brothers franchise started out as a small, budget title on the N64, and today has 
 become one of the biggest series on consoles. It sounds simple enough: tons of Nintendo characters 
 (and others) are thrown into a 2D ring to duke it out till the finish. However, there is surprisingly 
 a lot of depth to the game. Items appear and can be used to destroy your opponent. Stages vary, 
 and knowing how to use the strengths of the stage your are battling on gives you a distinct advantage. 
 Super Smash Bros Brawl continues this tradition of mayhem and craziness in this latest entry.
 
  
  All the features from Melee return. The All-Star Mode, Classic, Event Matches, Special Melees, 
 Break the Target, Multi-Man Melee, etc., along with a few more modes added. There is an entirely 
 new Story mode, that combines platforming and fighting into one. There is a tournament taking place, 
 and Mario is fighting Kirby. During there battle, a mysterious ship appears and sends down weird 
 enemies called Primids that take over the place. Slowly but surely, these Primids, controlled by 
 their leader Tabuu, take over most all of the Smash Bros. world. You must fight your way through 
 the Primids (and other enemies) with all the Brawl characters and destroy Tabuu and bring the world 
 to peace. This is one of the disappointments of Brawl, as the Story mode seems lackluster and the 
 platforming isn't that great. The load times also are annoying, as they can be frequent at some 
 points. However, it does provide some epic moments where you must fight famous bosses from games, 
 such as Rayquaza from Pokemon Emerald, or Meta Ridley from the Metroid series.
  
  The fighting is simple. Each character has a set of Regular Attacks and Special Attacks, varying 
 from character to character. You activate different attacks depending on which way you are holding 
 the control stick while pressing the button. Smash moves are uses by quickly and forcingly pressing 
 the control stick to one side and pressing the Attack button, which do more damage and send your 
 opponent flying farther. You have a damage meter at the bottom of the screen, and if you get hit 
 the meter rises. The higher the percent, the father attacks will launch you. If you get knocked 
 far enough off screen, you die and lose a life. If you get hit off the stage you are fighting on, 
 you can jump to get back on stage. Most characters have only one extra jump, while others may have 
 up to five. The fighting is easy to pick up but can be hard to master.
  
  Fortunately, Nintendo had the foresight to include four different ways to play Brawl. These include 
 the Wiimote + Nunchuck, the Classic Controller, the Gamecube controller, and even the Wiimote on 
 its own. Even beyond that, Nintendo gave you the option to customize the controls, so if you don't 
 like the way the buttons are placed, you can change it to your choosing. Once you are satisfied 
 with the controls, you save it to a player profile, and when in the Choose Your Character screen 
 you click the pen icon next to your character and choose your name so you don't have to customize 
 your controls everytime you play.
  
  Other features include the Vault. In the vault, you can see the pictures you have taken. To take 
 a picture, while Brawling just pause the game and hit the Required button to take a picture of 
 the screen, then you can save the pic to either an SD card or the Wii console itself. You can also 
 view replays you have taken. You can save up to three minutes of replay and view it from here. 
 One of the best new features in the Vault is the Stage Maker. Here, you can make entire new stages, 
 which can vary from size, background, and content. You can also put any Brawl music to the stage 
 (and there are about 200+ songs to choose from) . This is very fun and one of my favorite new features 
 in Brawl. You can also send any stage, replay, or picture to a friend, as long as they have both 
 your Wii Friend Code and Brawl Friend Code using WiiConnect24, so you can share your insane experiences 
 and ideas.
  
  Speaking of WiiConnect24, for the first time ever, Super Smash Bros goes online! You can fight 
 opponents across the globe. Of course, Nintendo didn't do a very good job setting it up, as random 
 battles are plagues with lag, and each battle is only able to last 2 minutes. Friend battles are 
 much better though, with much less lag. You can also customize the setting, so battles can be stock 
 too. Unfortunately, you can't play with customized stages online. Another feature of WiiConnect24 
 is that Nintendo can send you a new stage, replay, and picture a day from other Brawler that uploaded 
 their stages, pics, ect to Nintendo. They only last a day, and will be deleated after the day is 
 over, however, it is nice to play on other people's stages, and if you like the stage, you can 
 create it yourself.
  
  In Brawl, there are more characters than ever, with the total nearing just under 40. Characters 
 have been changed to vary the fighting, some for the better (like Kirby) while others have gotten 
 nerfed (like Samus) . Some newcomers include Kirby's arch rival Meta Knight, Pit from Kid Icarus 
 world, Olimar and Pikmin from the Pikmin series, and the Pokemon Trainer, which commands three 
 Pokemon at once while battling. Like in Melee, there are some characters that serve no purpose 
 other than to be a clone of another character, such as Falco to Fox, and once again Ganondorf to 
 Cpt. Falcon. It is rather disappointing, considering the legacy of some of the characters. There 
 are fewer clones than in Melee. Some character have been removed entirely, like Dr. Mario and Pichu, 
 which is a good thing. Overall, the new characters bring some new spice to the series and the old 
 ones are varied so that they require learning all over again.
  
  Like in all SSB games, items are extremely important. There are many new items. One new item is 
 called the Assist Trophy, which is akin to the Poke-Balls. When sequestered, Assist Trophies unleashed 
 a character which usually assists you in fighting your opponents. Sometimes, the Assister revealed 
 won't help you at all, and may actually just serve as to block your view or distract you. The Assisting 
 character usually is another famous icon from a Nintendo franchise, which further proves how much 
 fan service went into the making of Brawl. Another item is Sandbag. Yes, that Sandbag, from the 
 Home-run Derby in Melee. The Home-run Derby is still in Brawl, but now the Sandbag makes his return 
 also as an item. Upon hitting Sandbag, it drops items, usually food to heal you, although sometimes 
 it will drop more valuable items.
  
  More important that all other items, however, is the Smash Ball. This item has completely changed 
 Brawl. Upon entering the screen, the camera will immediately pan out to make room for the item. 
 All the characters start ignoring each other and move to try to get the item, which hovers throughout 
 the stage. To capture the Smash Ball, you must do enough damage to it. One you capture it, you 
 unleash your fury by pressing the Special attack button. The Smash Ball varies for all the characters. 
 For Bowser, once he uses the Smash Ball he transforms into Giga-Bowser, which makes him much larger 
 and more powerful. Samus unleashes a huge energy beam from her arm cannon. Once finished, her armor 
 falls all and she transforms into Zero-Suit Samus. The only way to transform back into regular 
 Samus is to get the Smash Ball again. Peach's Final Smash puts all the characters on the stage 
 to sleep, and food falls from the sky, healing 10% each. The Smash Ball is extremely important, 
 and can change the outcome of a game.
  
  Super Smash Bros Brawl also looks great for a Wii game. The characters have all become much more 
 detailed, along with the stages. Mario has been changed so that his plumber suit now has much more 
 texture to it. The Sound is excellent, as there are many, many, many songs to hear, and all of 
 them can be unlocked through battling and picking up CDs you see lying on the ground. The game 
 has a more orchastrated sound to it than in Melee. Songs from all your favorite Nintendo franchises 
 have been includes, and some songs from Melee, and others (like the sound that plays in the background 
 of the Mii Making menu) . The plethora of music is astounding, and Nintendo did a great job on it.
 
  
  Overall, Super Smash Bros Brawl is an amazing fighting game. There could be a few improvements, 
 but overall the quality and polish is well great. This game will keep you entertained for years 
 to come, and is an absolute blast to play with friends. This is the game that Nintendo fans have 
 been waiting for for the past 7 years, and Nintendo delivered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheConscience
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  [THE GOOD] Bigger roster than ever - Loads and loads of collectibles and unlockables - Full-fledged 
 story mode - Stage builder - WiFi play - Coin launcher - Record matches at will - Ability to share 
 stages, photos, and matches - Take pictures of scenes made with trophies and stickers - 41 event 
 matches - Inclusion of Konami's Snake and SEGA's Sonic
  
  [THE BAD] Stage Builder isn't as detailed as it could be
  
  It's very hard to actually describe 
 this game, what with it being the most anticipated game ever and everything. So I'm gonna keep 
 it shortand sweet. It is the best game on the Wii and quite possibly the best game of 2008. 
  
  Why? Because there are infinite possibilities in Brawl. With the stage builder, Subspace Emissary, 
 a ton of unlockables, trophies, stickers, WiFi, coin launcher, and event matches, there's no reason 
 at all you should be bored with this game anytimes soon.
  
  It is the Game of the Century. All Wii owners must have this. Heck, buy this even if you don't 
 have a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoshiRancher
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  Let me begin by saying that the character I wanted most in SSBB was added -- Wolf. Fandom will 
 not affect my rating. The game is decent, delivering much for fans of the Smash series. The music 
 is nothing short of epic, and the newly added gameplay modes add something to entertain most anyone... 
 including (Adjective adjective adjective adjective ADJECTIVE) Brawl. The gameplay runs smoothly 
 with improved sound effects complimented by decent graphics. The game is good, let there be no 
 mistake. However, there are several major flaws that weigh the game down.
  
  1) Glitches still present. This is simply unacceptable. It's always a joy to me (playing Wolf) , 
 to use my Flash to grab a ledge, only to glitch onto the stage, then fall through and tumble helplessly 
 off.
  
  2) Character balance. While it is difficult to balance 39 characters, it seems like the developers 
 spent even less time bothering than in Melee. Ivy bullet seed for 80% several times per match, 
 anyone? If the game revolved around 4-player FFAs only, it should have been called Super Smash 
 Bros. Ike. It seems the developers, in their visions for movesets, ended up favoring certain characters 
 quite strongly.
  
  3) Removal of advanced techniques. The wavedash and L-cancel were vital to balancing out some characters 
 in Melee, and added depth and strategy to Melee that Brawl lacks.
  
  4) DI has become ridiculous. Aerial combos? Pfft. 'Scuse me while I DI away. The game denegrated 
 from aerial wars to spamming matches, ground-bound (which are still better than the throw-fests 
 or dair spamming of SSB64) .
  
  5) SSE. It had so much potential, yet turned out to be nothing short of underwhelming. Stickers 
 = fail. Annoying to apply; little benefit.
  
  6) Online issues. Everything from incredible lag (9 minutes to complete a 2-min match... song completes 
 itself 8 times...) to afk partners in team, to LOOOONG wait times on the "Practice Stage" (I'd 
 love to pick a new song... I swear I've spent a week listening to the default one) . I was hoping 
 that w/ time, these would be revealed to be fixable server issues... apparently not.
  
  7) Long load times. The start-up load notwithstanding, the long load times make SSE seem disconnected, 
 and even in the other modes, including Brawl, the stage-load time is irritatingly long. You'd think 
 a 2-D fighter (Don't even try to tell me it's 3-D) w/ only decent graphics would load a bit faster.
 
  
  8) Some camera issues. These are relatively minor, and usually spring up while trying to get screenshots. 
 I have had a palm frond block my screen on the Delfino stage, however.
  
  Despite its detracting flaws, Brawl still delivers the classic gameplay fans desire, and its 3rd 
 parties, while perhaps ill-advised additions, certainly draw more to a great series. I'll be playing 
 this game for quite some time. GOTY nominee? Possibly, but with all the wait, I think people are 
 a bit disappointed. Sakurai should have waited longer and addressed a few of the above issues, 
 considering he didn't care about making us wait several times before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Person_Number13
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Brothers Brawl is a very good game. At first you will be addicted to it. You will be 
 switching through the characters rapidly, trying to play each one in the shortest amount of time. 
 It has a large variety of different characters, items, maps, and trophies to collect. If you have 
 friends or siblings with you, you will spend at least an hour playing brawls with different characters. 
 However Brawls and the Endless Enemy Battles are by far the best part of the game. The adventure 
 mode, or Subspace Emissary, is by far a letdown. I personally found it rather boring, to the point 
 that I stopped playing the game for a while. Also after a while the simplistic game play gets old 
 after a while. Another problem is that the game tends to be hectic to the point were you lose track 
 of your character.
  In conclusion, this is a great game if you have people if you have people to play with, and if 
 you don't you can always play with the CPU. While it lasts you will definitely love this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimybrit
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  Well Sakurai finally released Brawl in the US on March 9. The world has waited 2 years for it, and 
 it definitley lived up to the hype.
  
  Graphics:10- In my opinion the graphics are right up there with Galaxy. Amazing character models 
 and great detailed enviorments. Top notch.
  
  Gameplay:10- Amazing. The game's controls work perfectly. No problems whatsoever. It's fun, fast 
 paced, and addictive. Only problem is the online lags like crazy. Still, the games fun and easy 
 gameplay make up for the poor online.
  
  Sound:10- Every single song in the game is amazing. From remakes to originals, its about perfect. 
 More Nintendo music the anywhere else.
  
  Replay Value:10- As with Melee, I will probaly play this game for years and years to come. The 
 fun never ends. Ever. You could probaly play you're entire and it would not get boring.
  
  Overall:10- Its about perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: child_of_lileth
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I've waited a few months to do my review of Super Smash Bros. Brawl because I wanted to make 
 sure the initial "holy crap this is amazing" feeling had time to wear off before I tried to judge 
 it. 
  
  When ya first play this game you'll notice the announcer doesn't say the name of the game like 
 in the last 2. This isn't a complaint, I was just kinda disappointed when the game was silent at 
 the tittle screen.
  
  I'm gonna write this assuming you understand the basic way to win matches and all that. So we all 
 had to wait for this game for what felt like years. During this time there were alot of rumors 
 and false promises. First off lets talk about the roster. We were promised "Nintendo fans from 
 the NES days will be rewarded by the roster" in this game. Ive been playing NES since the 80's. 
 And I speak for alot of us when i say that promise was not at all kept. I'm not gonna talk about 
 secret characters incase anyone still hasn't seen them all. But I think the NES thing was refering 
 to one specific character. I was so disappointed by him showing up. Why not give me someone like 
 Simon Belmont or at least have one Castlevania assist trophy. And there are only 35 total playable 
 characters (not countin multiples of the same people such as Zelda's alternative) . I'm used to 
 fighters having 50+ playable characters. So again, I was a little let down on that one.
  
  The soundtrack in this game is amazing. I haven't unlocked every song yet but there are at least 
 a few hundred in there. You can listen to any song you have anytime you want. And you can get many 
 more by picking up CD items while playing. They don't drop often but you can make custom stages 
 to make them show up way more frequently. You can also set the frequency rate of what songs play 
 on each stage. Each one has around 7 songs that have a theme with the stage. 
  
  They fixed the adventure mode this time to be an actual adventure instead of just themed battles 
 like in melee. This is a huge improvement. You can also use this to unlock all the hidden characters. 
 But if your like me you still get them by doing the specific challenges to get them to challenge 
 you. The adventure lasted 6 hours on my first time playing through it and i only got 91% done so 
 trust me when I say it'll last ya for awhile. Even when its done you can replay any level ya want. 
 
  
  They also added a boss battle mode and challenge mode. Boss mode is just like you'd expect. Its 
 a boss rush with the difficulty settings that you can pick for classic mode. Its in a random order 
 except the final boss. He is always the last one you fight in this mode. which obviously makes 
 sense since hes the strongest. He actually has 3 instant k. o. moves but they are avoidable. The 
 challenge mode is also very good to have in the game. Basically its a chance to earn one of a kind 
 trophies that can only be found in this mode. When ya start the game all the challenge windows 
 are blue and you cant see whats inside. Once you beat any challenge the window opens and you can 
 see the windows on the left and right of the open one. The side ones become red and you can get 
 a small hint on how to open it. You can also find 5 hammers hidden in the blocks. They can be used 
 to open windows without completein the tasks. They cant be used on all windows though and once 
 they are used they are gone forever.
  
  Another new feature is "Masterpiece" option. It basically serves as a demo of the Virtual Console. 
 It has games related to the characters and more can be unlocked. They allow you to play for a set 
 amount of time or until you reach a certain point in the demo. For example in Super Mario Bros. 
 you can play for about 2 minutes. or until you reach the flag in stage 1-1. 
  
  Sticker mode is also new here, but it seems pointless to me. You can collect stickers in matches, 
 in adventure, in challenges, and in coin launcher. They basically just have special attributes 
 to make your characters stronger in adventure mode. The improvements rang from anything to Fire 
 Power +5 to Trophy Stand apperence rate + (i forget the number) %. Its good if ya want to use the 
 strategy for adventure mode, but i never messed with it and had no problems getting through it. 
 You have to manage them well since you can only use the space of the trophy stand's base to stick 
 them on. Bigger stickers have better effects but they take up most of the area you can use. Bein 
 able to use as many as you can fit is a nice feature since they could have just made it so you 
 can only use one at a time or something like that.
  
  Now here's the part I have extremely mixed feelings about. The online mode. I have cable internet 
 so online gameing works great in every other game I have. But Brawl just refuses to work well online. 
 If you go to play with anyone mode you could be waiting for a long long long time just to play 
 for 2 minutes. Trust me, I've only got with anyone mode to work once since the day the game came 
 out. If you have friend codes the game works way better. The only problem is it still lags like 
 crazy. Sometimes ya get a full match with no lag. Other times Ive been playing where it froze completely 
 for a full 2 minutes. I want to forgive it for this, but Nintendo delayed this game twice "so they 
 can implement flawless wi-fi gameplay". Yeah, good job guys. If I play with my friends from other 
 countries its even worse. But that's understandable I guess since the huge distance and all. But 
 still they took all that time to "fix" it and it seems like they did nothing to it. This is what 
 keeps brawl from being perfect to me, among a few smaller complaints. There's also a ton of broken 
 characters, but I'm not going to get into that.
  
  Overall this game is basically like melee. Only differences are some new modes, way more songs, 
 a few new and replaced characters, and an online mode that only half works. You'll probably buy 
 this game no matter what if ya don't have it already so its not worth saying try it out first or 
 anything like that. But for the amount of constant delays I think they could have fixed some of 
 the issues with online mode. I was really excited about this game when it first came out but after 
 the 2nd day I got really disappointed. Its just so similar, which is both good and bad in different 
 ways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irogon767
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Brothers Brawl is the follow up to one of the most successful games ever to grace the 
 GameCube. Super Smash Brothers Melee attained a cult like following which has continued all the 
 way up to the release of SSBB. Building on the past success, Nintendo does not necessarily rewrite 
 the Smash Brother formula but refines it.
  
  With 35 characters gracing the title (a noticeable increase from the previous iterations) both 
 Nintendo and 3rd Party contenders join this hectic, fast-paced fighting game. I would however use 
 the term "Fighting" lightly. Although it contains many of the same core elements found in other 
 such titles within the genre it also contains many differences. 
  
  Solid Snake from the Metal Gear Solid series as well as Sonic join SSBB as the first third party 
 characters to join the game. Both are balanced in unique ways, Snake providing a character requiring 
 thought and strategy, when used correctly can become deadly with his use of C4 and unique fighting 
 style. Sonic is all about speed as he should be. These characters are great additions to the game 
 and will be enjoyed.
  
  The basic mechanics are simple and intuitive. Each stage is located in such a way that when a player 
 is either hit off or out of a stage they lose a point while their opponent gains one. Instead of 
 the standard health bar as in other fighting games each player instead has a percentage at the 
 bottom of the screen. The more damage your character takes the higher the percentage raises. Then 
 in turn the higher percentage you receive the easier it is for other players to perform "Smash" 
 attacks to hit you off the stage.
  
  Adding to the fast paced chaos of multiple characters all fighting each other at once are randomly 
 appearing items that can benefit a player who picks them up by pressing A. Some such as the baseball 
 bat or Laser Gun can be picked and then used to help shoot or hit another player off the stage. 
 Others such as a Pokmon Ball release a random Pokmon that fights alongside you for a period of 
 time. 
  
  Most important of the items is the "Smash Ball" appearing at random and sometimes not at all the 
 Smash Ball floats around the screen waiting for a player to attack it. When a player breaks the 
 ball they can perform a Final Smash. These powerful attacks meant to either destroy your opponent 
 immediately or damage them severely. Each character has its own unique version of the Final Smash. 
 Some such Bowser become a more powerful form of their previous self such as Giga Bowser. Pikachu 
 turns into a ball of lighting that can whizz around the screen and knock others around. The variety 
 is impressive and fun to watch.
  
  Graphically SSBB has been given a slight upgrade to the overall look of the game but overall is 
 fairly familiar from the past. The music within SSBB is a mix of music from the many games in which 
 the characters appear from.
  SSBB provides a number of ways the player can control the game. Using a Nun chuck and Wiimote you 
 are able independently move and fight using two separate devices. A second option is to use the 
 Wiimote on its own by turning it horizontally. The second and third options are to either use the 
 Classic Wii Controller or a GameCube controller.
  
  Included with the normal Offline Multiplayer and versus modes is the Sub Space Emissary which acts 
 as a single player story mode of sorts also included and a first for the series is an Online Multiplayer 
 system using the Nintendo WFC.
  
  The Sub Space Emissary takes the player through a story of sorts in which all of the characters 
 within the game come together and progress through a lengthy quest. Splitting up the beat um' up 
 platforming action within the mode are some of the best cut scenes Nintendo have ever created. 
 Although you can easily get past the slightly lackluster plot within the Sub Space Emissary the 
 actual game play is a different story. 
  
  Super Smash Brothers Brawl was never meant to be played as a platformer but as a controlled fighter 
 within a single stage. However when the same game mechanics are applied to this type of game play 
 it ultimately falls short. Never-ending enemies are presented to you as you side scroll through 
 a level as one or two of the many characters at a time. While an ok concept when this same activity 
 is stretched into a ten hour affair it becomes tedious. Many players may find themselves pushing 
 through the mode as it unlocks a number of characters as well as other aspects of the game that 
 would take longer to unlock otherwise.
  
  Adding an Online versus mode to SSBB was a highly anticipated feature as it would allow you to 
 play with both your friends and strangers when no one was around. Connecting to the WFC is easily 
 done through an option on the main menu which then allows you to either battle friends entered 
 through the friend code system or complete strangers. As with all online Nintendo games there will 
 always be the hassle of exchanging and entering friend codes to play with your friends. Even when 
 playing with friends however you are only allowed to use premade messages built into the game. 
 When playing with strangers no contact is allowed premade or otherwise. 
  
  Early on in the release of SSBB the online mode experienced problems due to the extreme popularity. 
 It was reported that many players had problems connecting to matches with strangers and had to 
 resort to only playing with friends for a few weeks after release. 
  
  Friend matches tend to be usually lag free and enjoyable however some lag appears and can hinder 
 the flow of the game. Online play has a few nags and glitches especially early on in release however 
 in the long run will be a feature that prolongs the replay value of the title and is generally 
 a solid addition.
  
  Super Smash Brothers Brawl is both a great game and a wonderful fan service with the addition of 
 Music and Characters that can only create nostalgia within the Nintendo fan base. Some features 
 however are either slightly disappointing or just not living up to their full potential. However 
 any fan of the Super Smash Brothers series as well as anyone who has any interest in a casual fighting 
 game owes it to themselves to buy this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegiaKing16
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  The Game is way better than the one before it (Super Smash Bros. Melee) This game has way more 
 characters, playable areas, music, and much more! It even features characters people didn't think 
 would be featured. The game also has WIFI Play so you can play with your buddies when you are not 
 with them. This game is really addicting and you will have to beat it. This one has story mode 
 from their it is easy to unlock characters than just playing classic or something else. It tells 
 you a lot about that white hand (forgot what it is called) where it comes from and what it does. 
 In the game, rivals team up to beat the leader of the Subspace who is Tabuu. You also have a lot 
 more options to play. In story mode which is called The Subspace Emissary you can play with two 
 players. Personally this is one of my favorite games of all time! I hope you will like Super Smash 
 Bros. Brawl like I did! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gracefool99
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  super smash bros brawl is a fighter where all the Nintendo characters come into play. If you are 
 looking for a game with the best Multi-player action ever this game is a must have. But if you 
 like solid single player that has a story look some where els but no mater what you are looking 
 for you should still get this game because it's not one of the games where you buy it it is really 
 good and you can't put it down but in a few hours you never touch the game again. It is one of 
 the games where you play it for a few hours and it gets boring but when you pick it up again and 
 it's like a hole new game so you will still be playing the game for years. It also has online play 
 where you can play agenst 3 other people online without to much lag you can also just watch people 
 play if you are not in the mood to play there are 35 character 41 steges and tones of bonus stuff
 
  
  Overall all i have to say is start play ing this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rennik_l
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2008 3:08 am PT
Review:  Intro:
  It's been a long time coming, with 2 delays, and no release in Europe yet so far, but Super Smash 
 Bros Brawl, for Wii is finally out, and after a full month with the game I'm ready to dish out 
 my review. 
  
  Design:
  The premise is simple. Say you and your friend get into an argument about which Nintendo character 
 could beat the living hell out of another Nintendo character, the best way to solve this is to 
 shut up and pop in Smash Bros (any really works) and duke it out yourselves. Super Smash Bros Brawl 
 (From now on only called "Brawl") takes this to new heights with a whopping 35 characters (which 
 at one time or another have appeared on a Nintendo console in the past) , over 40 base stages, and 
 more features than there are in every other fighting game COMBINED. For you solo people, there's 
 Classic mode, which has been in every smash game, All-star mode, an un-lockable mode (no spoiler 
 on how here) , and the Subspace Emmisary mode, which is an 8 hour + adventure side scroller which 
 will be covered later in this review. For those of you who are lonely little people who have no 
 or very few friends around you there is the best new feature, that is WFC. Brawl is one of the 
 most incredibly well built fighters AND the biggest piece of fan service to ever be released.
 
  
  Solo:
  For you solo players there's Classic mode, in which you participate in 12 fighting rounds, and 
 two break the target rounds. It's very standard and will keep you entertained for those 'classic' 
 cravings you may get. All-star mode pits you against all 35 characters in the game, in the order 
 of which game came first (the characters of those games, which come 2 at a time, are random) . But 
 the big add-on here, is the new Adventure Mode: The Subspace Emmisary, which is a side scrolling 
 platformer which is like Nintendo's version of Kingdom Hearts with all the cameos that appear in 
 the game. The adventure, while mostly entertaining and absolutely worth playing through at least 
 once (for the beautiful cut-scenes) does have one little disappointing aspect on it. The Great 
 Maze (the final stage before the final boss) is a little too long and repetitive, other than that 
 this mode is great to start your adventure in Brawl.
  
  Multi:
  This is it, the meat of the game, where everyone will spend most their time. This game just nails 
 perfection here, tight controls, intense gameplay, and incredibly fun game options makes this game 
 better than the last title, Melee. The WFC, which is an excellent feature, is currently not totally 
 set yet. The games overwhelming popularity has Nintendo's servers having overloads, making getting 
 into "with anybody" matches sometimes hard, and sometimes laggy. The one thing that I have yet 
 to not experience is a control delay online, usually about .5 or so seconds pass between when I 
 press a button to when my character does the move, it's easy to get used to, but makes intricate 
 moves almost worthless at times, don't get me wrong, the online play is every bit as fun as the 
 local multiplayer, just some improvements need to be done on it. The "friends" option uses friend 
 codes, but instead of locked 2 minute matches, you get all the customizable options you would get 
 in Brawl mode, which there are plenty, too many to list, just know it will take months before you've 
 tried every combo there is.
  
  Gameplay:
  Brawl is fun, addictive, and easy to pick up. While wave dashing is longer in (mainly because wave 
 dashing was actually a glitch in melee, and you were screwed in higher competition if you didn't 
 know how to do it) many other intricate moves can still be done. The items are fun to get and the 
 gameplay shifts when the Smash Ball (I call it the Smash Orb) flies overhead. A well placed Final 
 Smash (obtained by breaking open a Smash Orb) can change the tide of the match. This game will 
 keep people playing for YEARS to come, like melee before it.
  
  Collectables:
  What is a Smash Bros game without collectables? Even if the original title didn't have any, Melee 
 made it a standard for future games, and Brawl is no exception. Well over 500 trophies, over 300 
 stickers AND over 300... yes... 300 songs to collect, makes this games re-playability great if 
 you're a completionist who wants everything in the game. What makes trophies (and stickers) more 
 fun to get in Brawl is the coin launcher, an arcade-ish style minigame where you shoot the coins 
 you obtain just for playing at targets and trophies. Destroy a trophy to get it, and destroy a 
 string of targets to either get a sticker or coin bonus. Overall collecting everything to read 
 about the trophies and such is in itself a game.
  
  Presentation:
  This game looks gorgeous. This game is the best looking game on the Wii, and can easily hold it's 
 own against the HD games of the PS3 and 360. While some technical things that were in Mario Galaxy 
 are missing to Brawl (specular maps, and the like) this game has more variety in it's graphics, 
 and only ONCE and I'm amazed, has the game dipped under 60FPS (tingle, and assist trophy gave us 
 super spicy curry when four characters were clumped together, on a level with lots of background 
 activity) . The animations are fluid and wonderful, and the SSE Cut-scenes are amazing on all accounts. 
 
  As good as this game looks, the sound might be better, for one reason, the music. The sound effects 
 themselves are fairly standard, but great to hear anyway. The music, with over 300 songs on the 
 dual layer disc (the first dual layered Wii optical disc) , many of which are orchestrated, or remixes 
 of classic songs from the NES and up (even one song almost ripped from the MSX2 for the Shadow 
 Moses stage) , and all of them sound great, this is one sound track that is warranted a purchase 
 if ever officially released.
  
  Closing Thoughts:
  If you're a fan of Nintendo, or Fighting games, or both, then this game is for you, it's nearly 
 perfect in what it achieves, and is definitely the best fighter out at this point and time. Even 
 if you are not a real fan of either this game is worth at least a rental to those few, everyone 
 else, get this game, and yes, this is THE game to buy a Wii for if you haven't already.
  
  Judgment:
  Design: 10
  Gameplay: 10
  Solo: 9.5
  Multi: 10
  Collectables: 10
  Presentation: 
 10
  Overall: 9.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ga_ko129
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is number one in my book. I wanted to play this game ever since I saw the first trailer 
 off of E3. I remember watching in awe of all of the characters and stages. 
  This game is all about the multiplayer. You could spend hours just playing with your friends or 
 playing against random people online. There is so many new characters, but my favs would have to 
 be Wario and Snake. The stages too are prety good but sometimes can be a bit over the top. I personally 
 just play on FD. There are also a lot of new items such as the Smash Ball and Assist Trophies, 
 which can be game breaking but still be fun at the same time. The story mode is pretty good as 
 well, considering the fact that its a fighter.
  You'll probably never get tired of this game. There are so many things you can do. Sure, Melee 
 players will miss certain things from the previous installment *cries for wavedash to come back* 
 but the game itself can be pretty competitive once you get rid of your Melee mentality.
  This game is probably the only Wii game you'll ever need. It is so fun and you'll probably never 
 let go of the controller once you play it. I recomend this game to anyone who is a fan of video 
 games and i'll probably meet you in this game's online.'Till then! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendo890
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 27, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  This game was good don't get me wrong, but it was only good for about a month then it quickly lost 
 its new and glorious sheen with a rusty tint, The characters do get a little annoying with all 
 the clones and the fighting isnt as fast paced as it was in melee. The story was fun for the first 
 few hours but it felt like a Mario game you want to just finish then for the Great Maze you have 
 to go everywhere all over again. The music, was spectacular, the best songs from any game ever 
 (besides FFVII) . Wifi was the most disappointing aspect of the game. I could not find a single 
 person on regualr Wifi and when I played online with friends it was very laggy. Overall Brawl will 
 be fun for a while longer and I will play ever month or two for a few hours otherwiseit was a huge 
 dissappointment but with friends it is a shining hallmark to Nintendo. I suggest if you have friends 
 and if your into Nintendo and fighting games this is a preety good game to grab. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshigal
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2008 11:14 pm PT
Review:  As you can see, I haven't played this game for long and already love it! Super Smash Bros. Brawl 
 is an all new smash experience. Brawl has many new features like a stage builder, stickers, new 
 trophies, characters, and items, and much more! I'm sure everyone can find a character to play, 
 with all the newcomers.
  Some of my favorite characters are:
  POKEMON TRAINER - Any pokemon fan would love o play with this newcomer. This Firered/Leafgreen 
 look-a-like has not one, but three favorite pokemon to battle with. Charizard, Venisaur, and squirtle 
 all have their own moves and are capable of switching out.
  SAMUS - Samus is back, and better than before! Samus also comes with ZERO SUIT SAMUS tagging along. 
 ZERO SUIT SAMUS is obtained after using SAMUS' final smash, or pressing Z before a battle. ZERO 
 SUIT SAMUS is just as powerful, but try not to stare......
  
  Now, I'm not going to spoil it for ya, but you can obtain all of the secret characters through 
 a new adventure mode called THE SUBSPACE EMISSARY. But, You still have to battle them though. 
 
  
  I don't want to spoil all the surprises, so I think i'll finish with this rating: 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Utensilman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  A true benchmark for the Wii and the fighting game genre, I'm not even a fan of the Nintendo Wii 
 but this game completely redeemed the Wii for me. Being a big fan of the first installment but 
 not so of the 2nd, i was skeptical at first but it really grew on me. With the ammount of content 
 this game offers makes the 50 dollar price tag seem like nothing. Characters, stages, even a hefty 
 singleplayer or co-op and much more. Even if you're not a fan of the fighting genre their is something 
 here for everyone. Not to mention that you can play as you're favorite 3rd party characters, you're 
 not limited to the Nintendo universe. With all the unlockables and events, you'll have countless 
 hours of enjoyment and be very, very satisfied with your purchase.
  
  Final note. Try not to get to addicted to this game. To much of a good thing can turn out bad....... well 
 maybe not in this case..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluey2323
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. It has pretty much everything that you could imagine. Unparalleled gameplay, 
 great graphics, music from a ton of Nintendo games, and practically endless replay value. This 
 game, just like its predecessor, is the reason to own a Wii, or in the case of Melee, a Gamecube. 
 If I could only have one game, this would definitely be it. Now I will go into greater detail.
 
  
  Graphics: For the Wii, amazing. It looks pretty darn close to being in Hi-Def but, the Wii doesn't 
 support Hi-Def sadly. There is no doubt that they would be some of the best graphics around in 
 Hi-Def.
  
  Sound: There is an incredible amount of soundtracks in this game. I'm not sure how many soundtracks 
 are on this game but I would say that there is over 100. Almost all of them are good, in my opinion. 
 Also, you can pick what songs you want on each level from a choice of around 5. 
  
  Gameplay: Not much of a change here but, if its not broken, don't fix it. And it certainly wasn't 
 broken. This game is the most fun and joy I've ever gotten out of a game. I mean you can't really 
 go wrong with all of your favorite Nintendo characters duking it out in 4 player battles. And this 
 time we even get Snake from Metal Gear Solid and Sonic The Hedgehog! There is nothing more fun 
 than a 4 player battle with your friends.
  
  Story: This time Super Smash Bros. actually has a full-out single player mode! The Subspace Emissary 
 is where the whole world of videogame characters are being attacked by this darkness of some sort. 
 You play as most every character in the game. Also you can do it in coop! I don't want to spoil 
 it for you so I'll stop here.
  
  Replay Value: There is so much stuff to do its ridiculous. There are brawls with bots and friends, 
 special brawls, tourney, rotation (for more than 4 people) , classic mode, The Subspace Emissary, 
 stadium, events, wifi brawls, map editor, challenges, trophies, stickers and more!!! That is so 
 much stuff that it should last you forever. Its extremely hard to believe it fits on one disc. 
 And on top of all that there are 35 different characters!
  
  The Bad: Now, the things I'm about to say are some very minor things that I can definitely live 
 without. You can't play custom maps online and the characters are easy to unlock compared to the 
 previous Super Smash Bros. With all the things we got this doesn't matter at all to me and should 
 not stop anyone from buying this game.
  
  This game is the reason to own a Wii so, if you ever get a Wii this is the must have game of the 
 console.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killmaster3811
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  This could quite possibly be the greatest game i have ever played! The campaign mode is fun while 
 it lasts and is easily the fastest way to unlock all charachters. The graphics are great. If there 
 was ever a game that was more worth the wait i have never heard of it. There are plenty of new 
 charachters packed in and tons of extra content to collect such as cd's, stickers, and trophies. 
 And lets not forget the brawling! The controls are basically the same and none of the returning 
 charachters move sets have changed a lot but there are now four different controlers to use! The 
 classic, The gamecube controler, the wiimote + nunchuck, and just the wiimote. There is also the 
 addition of quite a few new items and stages, plus every charachter now has a super powerful move 
 called a final smash!!!!! They are different for each charachter so you'll have to try them all 
 to decide which one is best for you! All in all this is an amazing game and a must have for any 
 wii owner and it is fun for all ages, from your 60 year old grampa to your 4 year old brother! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yowda
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  The super smash bros. brawl game for the nintendo wii is by far the best installment in the series. 
 Lets start with gameplay not much has changed here some moves have been mapped to diffrent buttons 
 like mario's old down B move has been moved to down A while in the air and replaced with F. L. U. D. D. 
 Graphic wise it has the best graphics of any wii game with the exception of the incredible lighting 
 effects found in Mario Galaxey. The music in this game is amazing classics untouched to clasics 
 re-imagined and orchestrated tons of songs to unlock over 270 in all. the amount of content to 
 be found in this game should not disapoint as there is tons to unlock from 35 charecters 41 stages 
 tons of stickers and trophys that i cant even name a number. Also with other fun things like cut-scenes, 
 tons of modes, a challenge window for unlockables and a stage builder. Multiplayer is solid with 
 lots of ways to costumize ur match and almost every mode in the game can be co-op with the exception 
 of classic mode and all star match. However the 1 reason why this game does not receive a 10 from 
 me is the online. its not that the online is bad its not virtualy lag free durring ur wait for 
 a brawl you can hit a bag with ur charecter. the only problem i find is if you play with strangers 
 you are forced to play the 2 minute match i can understand why for loading reasons but if they 
 kept the online simple with a choice of time stock coins or hp it could have been narrowed down 
 and wouldnt have sacraficed so much time. in all SSBB is a must buy for any wii owner its got 5 
 levels of dificulty so however good you are your sure to have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metric27
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2008 10:42 pm PT
Review:  this game really surprised me. i thought i was buying a one on one fighting game with online support 
 but i got a great storyline as well and more moves, characters, and fighting fun then i had hoped 
 for. single player includes the traditional kill and advance mode which is fun, if not a bit short 
 on the easier difficulty levels, as well as a story mode which will take a few hours to complete.
 
  online play is great and multi-player play with friends, like most things on the wii, is the best 
 of all. 
  the action is always fast paced thanks in part to the bright colors and rapid screen movements 
 and in part to the multiple items that result in explosions, electric shocks, and the like. a style 
 of having multiple 'bad guys' and allies on the screen helps to keep things revved-up as well.
 
  makes me want super-mario cart that much more... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pikachu15eevee
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  It's the third in series of one of the most classic games of all time. Its added more characters 
 from each series. Heck, its even introduced a couple new series's. If you dislike this game, please 
 go get some Electro-shock therapy. If you still don't like it, consider yourself shunned by most 
 of the gaming community. The most recent installment in the Super Smash Bros. series, this game 
 completely widens your horizons and sets almost no limits. The addition of customizable levels 
 is great, and always is sure to bring out your best (and funniest) ideas. The screen shots are 
 a cool new touch, because ever since the first game, I've been addicted to pausing the game and 
 laughing at what we get. A very interesting trophy system tops it all off. You shoot coins to collect 
 trophies, and they can be viewed in two ways. I don't own a Nintendo Wii. There for, I cannot own 
 this game. My cousin has it, and it is great. This game is worthy of being the Only reason you 
 buy a Wii. Seriously. I did not, however, grant it best in series, becuase they are all very equal. 
 I repeat: If you don' like this game, you're insane. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaxxyGamer18
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great new characters; fighting is generally balanced and fair; tons of multiplayer options; 
 10+ hour adventure mode is a decent diversion; loads of intriguing unlockable content; lots of 
 stages to brawl on.
  
  The Bad: Fundamentally broken and uninteresting online play; lack of true new modes; enemy AI comes 
 off as either lame or cheap; Subspace Emissary is pretty redundant and gets old fast; visuals and 
 gameplay aren't a huge step up from Melee; some long loading times; many of the new stages are 
 overtly flawed; stage creator is underwhelming; character list ends up being... disappointing; not 
 much of a "Wii game" at all; two of the control schemes are a waste of time.
  
  Well... this game certainly needed to live up to expectation. Few games have ever been so hyped 
 before release and subsequently been delayed so many times. Nintendo seems to be one of the main 
 perpetrators here. It seems time has given the creators of Super Smash Bros. Brawl time to create 
 a quality offering. It's just lacking in so many areas and missing so much of what could be there, 
 and it seems like it would be better suited on a console like the Xbox 360 with a strong downloadable 
 content base and solid online play. Nonetheless, it is what it is, and that is a great multiplayer 
 game just like the past two entries.
  
  The strengths are exactly the same as Melee - the multiplayer is awesome, especially if you've 
 got some Nintendo-fan friends. There are numerous combinations of things to do and many options, 
 so it's quite full-featured. It's too bad that there are no new modes of play here - using the 
 gameplay model to try implementing, say, capture the flag, or trying to do some sort of a take 
 on a sport would be awesome. Alas, it lacks inspiration.
  
  It seems to be a recurring trend in this game: more of the same. In some cases (like the trophies 
 and music tracks) it's a LOT more of the same. In other cases, the characters and stages are reasonable 
 progressions from the past. The game refuses to try very many new or interesting things, unfortunately.
 
  
  The online mode had a lot of fans excited, and it is bound to let them all down. No scoreboards 
 or stat tracking means that battles against random people - especially with how much lag exists 
 - are completely pointless. Even battles against friends from a few miles away are laden with enough 
 lag to make the tactics in the game void, creating frustration.
  
  Other new things, such as the stage creator, lack enough depth. Halo 3's Forge mode allows players 
 all kinds of freedom with existing levels, even being able to create alterations on game modes 
 and existing structures. Here, there are just a few tools and three backgrounds to choose from, 
 and no ability to use your own music. It's fun to mess around with for a bit, but the levels always 
 lack aesthetic quality.
  
  Further flaws are mentioned in the good/bad section above. There's a lot to this game, but it is 
 a bit hit and miss. The single player modes are still mostly frustrating due to cheap enemies (remember 
 Mario Strikers Charged?) and endless repetition. The challenges to unlock things all involve the 
 same few modes or objectives, so there's not a lot of incentive once you get what you really want, 
 such as the characters, stages, and music.
  
  Beyond that, Super Smash Bros. Brawl just doesn't channel the Wii spirit at all. There is no IR 
 pointer support, the Wii Remote control schemes are horrific, and it just doesn't offer much that 
 could not have been done on the GameCube. Super Mario Galaxy took an existing franchise and tailored 
 it to the WIi with resounding success, but Brawl just doesn't have that.
  
  So there it is. Brawl is not flawless, no matter what any fanboy may say. Older Nintendo fans who 
 have done this all before will lament the fact that it just isn't what it could be. The good outweighs 
 the bad, but it's hard to totally enjoy a game that makes you constantly think "Oh! I'd rather 
 go play Wind Waker/Star Fox/Super Mario  Kart/Metal Gear Solid 
 again!" It's kind of a drag.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LockJaw94
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Easily the best game for the Wii, no questions asked really. Everything is in its place, and is 
 pretty much perfect! The Subspace Emissary is so cool, and if you sit down and don't stop playing 
 until you beat it, it takes you a little while while, it took me 6.5 hours, my friend beat it in 
 4! The controls are very good and extremely easy to learn, not only that, but now when you choose 
 a character, the Wiimote makes a sound for that character, cool! The graphics are phenomenal, and 
 having the Composite Wii cables doubles the quality. The character selection has also improved, 
 from 25 in Melee, to now 35! I only have one complaint, kick Jigglypuff and put in Shadow! At least 
 he's an assist trophy. Speaking of them, they're a great new addition! And while we're on items 
 they're awesome, go cracker-launcher! Final smashes are the best items in the game, and a great 
 new plan of attack. stages are awesome, trophies are cool, stickers are sweet, and the coin launcher 
 is REALLY cool. And also the stage builder is sweet too! I've built about 25 stages. Finally, but 
 definitely not least, the Wi-Fi. One of the best additions to the Super Smash Bros. series, new 
 challenges and new ways to play with friends. Overall, if you don't have a Wii, get one, and get 
 Brawl! You will LOVE it! I can almost guarantee it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArmyGuy0628
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Although we waited about a year and a half for this game it was well worth it. With a 10+ hour 
 story mode and fantastic multiplayer this game is truly amazing. 3rd party characters such as Snake 
 and Sonic the Hedgehog make this the Brawl to end them all! With new features such as Stage Builder, 
 Challenges, and Boss Mode, you will be endlessly entertained. The game boasts a whopping 41 stages 
 and 35 characters. Although sometimes the online is a bit laggy, its still amazing. New features 
 such as Replay and in game snapshots (without having to make a custom snapshot game) make saving 
 your favorite Brawl moments easy as pie. In the transition for Melee to Brawl custom games have 
 been revamped, you can now combine you favorite game element to make a brawl to fit your style. This 
 game is a must-have for Wii owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: latiosking12
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  this game is just great. It will be around for a while and has proof to show for it. the charcters 
 are good but I expected more. the subspace adventure is great. It takes about 7-10 hours to complete. 
 there is so many extras like the new stage bulider and replays of any fight less than 3 mintues. the 
 music and graphics are amazing! although there is many complants on the boards because of taking 
 charcters out , combos harder to do or melee is better! the game is not perfect but does not dissapoint. 
 having friends over is the best experice you will ever have. you can also settle the sorce with 
 rivals with friends or on wifi. wifi is a little lacking but still play it. the music is beatyful! 
 I love hearing it ever time I play it. the best part you can pick witch song to go on which stage. 
 you can custimize your fights in special brawl or go old school with classic mode. this is a must 
 buy for every nintendo fan, and owner of a wii period! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crazyfrog14
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  I Enjoyed playing this game too much. 24 hours of play after only 2 days of ownership. I could 
 not believe how much i liked it. I knew that it would be a good, no great game. The great part 
 is, it got my brother into playing the Wii, so now we play together. I got worried because he played 
 it so much, i didn't know if he was better than me, i won, so I am happy . If you want to beat 
 the crud out of something then buy this game. You will enjoy it... great stress reliever. I dont 
 see how it isnt the number one game on this website, the other games mustbe utterly fantastic, 
 because this is far better than anything i have ever played in my life. A fine sequel for the two 
 awesome previous games in the smash bros series 
  
  PS: It might take you a good long while to get all the characters, but wolf, sonic, lucario, and 
 toon link are all worth the hard work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueresident87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  The first two Smash Brothers games were amazing, and the third one delivers on just the same level 
 as the first two. Even after having played the game for an extremely large amount of time, I have 
 few complaints and a desire to play more.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  --Nothing breathtaking, but the fact that there is so much going on and the game still runs at 
 or around 60 fps is impressive. The animations are done very well and the level backgrounds look 
 great without stealing your focus from the fight at hand. Nothing much to gripe about here, especially 
 considering this is probably the best looking game on the Wii. The detail put into the look of 
 the game is great.
  
  Game-play and Control: 9/10
  --I have two (minor) complaints about the controls. One is I don't like how pressing up on the 
 joystick makes you jump, but this has been implemented in other Smash titles and you can get used 
 to it pretty quick. The second is I wish I could point at the screen when using the Wii-mote to 
 select my character. Apart from those terribly minor problems, I think the control is great. Smash 
 attacks are easy to execute and the collision detection between characters is perfect. The controls 
 are very responsive which is obviously necessary with such a fast paced game, although sometimes 
 jumping can be tricky.
  
  The game-play is controlled chaos at its best, and there is just no game on the planet like Super 
 Smash Brothers. A great selection of characters although I would have liked to see others, such 
 as Simon Belmont and Chrono. The final smash can take some getting used to, and I find myself wishing 
 it didn't exist at moments, but it certainly makes the game more fun and can cause a swing during 
 a match in a second. The characters are balanced very nicely, all of them are more than capable 
 of holding there own against anyone. Some of the levels are a bit plain, and I was hoping to see 
 more levels like Pokemon Floats, but I have no complaints with what there are. Shadow Moses Island 
 is the ####, and the Subspace Frigate is very cool. The addition of the Subspace Emissary as a 
 solo mode will please some, annoy others. It annoyed me, but I did have fun at certain times. All 
 of the solo modes are entertaining, but most of the time spent playing this game will be multi-player, 
 even if it's against a CPU. Unlocking new characters was certainly made a little bit easier in 
 this game and I support that. There could have been a few more modes to play in, but that's not 
 a big deal because the game is fun just as it is. 
  
  The only reason I would say 9 here is because the on-line mode is shaky. I have a stable wireless 
 connection, that works with all other Wii features, but this game has some pretty bad moments with 
 connectivity. Also waiting twenty minutes to find opponents, when I know damn well they're out 
 there, is frustrating. The lack of communication available between players is very disappointing. 
 However, once in a match on-line, the game is amazing. A lot of fun and it runs very well too, 
 so long as everyone you're playing has a decent connection.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  --The music is, as always, amazing. It fits the game perfectly, pulling tunes from all over the 
 Nintendo universe. Performing certain tasks can unlock songs ( among many, many other things) and 
 that is a very welcome feature. The sound effects are top notch, and the sound of the Home-Run 
 Bat cracking foes into another dimension is still very satisfying. Also the game has a feature 
 that allows you to modify the % of what song you would like to hear during each level. Very cool.
 
  
  Story: 5.5/10
  --Obviously the weak point of the game, but still it's not that bad. I actually enjoyed following 
 the characters as they met up with one another and adventured toward their common goal. But it 
 was too long, and I didn't really like the Subspace Emissary mode anyhow, so I got tired of it 
 quickly. I may have even skipped a few cut-scenes if I remember correctly, but I could care less 
 about the story in a Smash Brothers game honestly, I just wanted the characters.
  
  Overall: 8.5/10
  --An amazing title, will certainly entertain almost any gamer. Fun is the more 
 prevalent word that comes to mind when thinking of this game, and there is no other way to put 
 it. Arguably the best game out there on any system... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magiciandude
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Please note this thread has spoilers. Read at your own risk. 
  
  Well maybe except for not having the money to buy this game, but still. 
  
  Anyways, it was 
 worth the wait after these 3 years. Remember the big trailer in E3 2006? Does the game still live 
 to its hype from that trailer? Does the sequel to Melee live up to its hype? 
  
  The answer is Yes and Yes.
  
  I loved Melee, and gave it a 10. but I wish I could have given 
 Brawl a better score than that.
  
  First let's get down to the nitty-gritty.
  
  Gameplay: It plays like the last two installments, which is a good thing, since the gameplay in 
 those two games were great. For Melee veterans, you may still use your GameCube controllers. However, 
 this game also allows you to use 3 other controller types: Wii Remote tilt sideways, Wii + Nunchuk, 
 and the Classic Controller. Being the Melee veteran, of course, I perfer the GameCube controller. 
 The game somewhat uses motion senser, that is, if you use the Wii + Nunchuk and for menus. If you 
 new to Smash series, try different controls to suit your taste. The best part is, if you are not 
 completely satisfied with the button options, you can now do a button configuration option. Melee 
 veterans are probably so used to the controls in the last game, they probably wouldn't bother this 
 option. 
  
  Story: Shocking isn't it? This is the first game in the series to actually have a storyline called 
 the "Adventure Mode: The Subspace Emissary". The cutscenes are told in CGI, but feature little-no 
 voice acting at all (its Nintendo, what did you expect?) . Unfortunately, towards the end, the story 
 is not all cracked up to be. But really, the point of this game isn't for great storyline, now 
 is it?
  
  Characters: 35 characters total are in Brawl. Your favorite fighters such as Mario, Link, Samus, 
 Fox, and Marth are back, along with new faces such as Pit, from Kid Icarus, Meta Knight, Pikmin 
 & Olimar, and Wario. For the first time in Smash series, the game includes two 3rd party characters 
 (that is, characters not owned by Nintendo) . Hailing from Konami, is the legendary Solid Snake 
 (who would've guessed that he'd appear in this game) and the anticipated Sega character, Sonic 
 the Hedgehog, speeds his way to Brawl with his rival, Mario. Only five characters from Melee were 
 removed. The only minor sideback is that the clones are still in this game, but is that only going 
 to stop you from owning this game?
  
  Online: Another first for the series, the game features online play. You can battle with someone 
 you know or a random person from somewhere around the world. This may disappoint some, but you 
 still need to use Friend Codes. Also since this is the Wii, lags are expected.
  
  
  Sound: Can you say over 300 songs in Brawl? That's right, over 300 song. The soundtrack consists 
 of many fan favorites for all the series represented in the game. You also the choice to decide 
 which songs will be played in a particular stage.
  
  Modes: There is quite a number of modes in Brawl. Most of these are returning features from Melee, 
 such as Event Mode, Break the Targets, Home-Run Contest, and Mutli-Man matches. What's new though, 
 is that now you can do this modes with a friend in co-op! New modes are in Brawl as well, such 
 as Boss Battles, which has you fight every boss in the game, and the mentioned Subspace Emissary. 
 One exciting mode that's present in this game is that you create your own stage! 
  
  Replayablity: If you played Melee for a long time, until now, you will be spending years for this 
 game. 
  
  Graphics: This is the most realistic Nintendo game you will find for the Wii. Look at the details 
 of the characters and the stages, and you will the see the big improve from Melee's graphics.
 
  
  This is a game that you MUST pick up, even if you are unfamiliar with the series. This game is 
 sure to last you a long time, with fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furior_celtica
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 8, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  Well, since your reading this, I might as well tell you now : I 've played Brawl for 2 hours, so 
 my perception may be wrong.
  
  I have to say, a lot of computer gamers know the term "expansion pack." It's an extra CD you buy 
 to unlock certain features (more characters, more levels, more campaigns.) From what I've played, 
 Brawl is just an expansion pack of Melee! There are only a few differences in the gameplay. I played 
 as Kirby and Link and the moves were EXACTLY the SAME. There was nothing new about the original 
 characters. Now here are the 3 benefits you get from switching to Brawl:
  
  -More levels
  -More characters
  -More game items
  -Changed adventure mode
  
  The whole reason I buy new 
 games is because I want to see new stuff, experiment with brand new items, and not have to change 
 my character to get some sense of "new." I played as Kirby in Melee, and I play as Kirby in Brawl. 
 
  
  The first thing I did when I went to play Brawl is play multiplayer, because that is what all Super 
 Smash Bros. are based around. I chose Kirby, and my friend chose Pit. We started playing, 10 minutes 
 later, I realized. I am just as good in Brawl as I am in Melee! 
  
  Sorry, I've already beat Melee, don't wanna play it again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 2, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  SSBB is truly a showing of rewarding fans for countless delays and release changes. Many kept up 
 with the website throughout the delay process, going from November to December to February and 
 finally to March, but few probably expected the end result to really deliver (better than when 
 Half-Life 2 kept getting delayed) .
  
  Of the characters, most of the favorites are back, including Mario, Luigi, Link, Samus, Peach, 
 Yoshi, Pikachu, Ice Climbers, Mr. Game & Watch, Ness, Marth, Kirby, Jigglypuff, Ganondorf, Zelda/Sheik, 
 Fox, Falco, Captain Falcon, and Donkey Kong. Joining the group are Pit, Zero Suit Samus, Wario, 
 Lucario, Snake, Sonic, ROB, Toon Link, Wolf, Ike, Lucas, Pokemon Trainer (with Squirtle, Ivysaur 
 and Charizard) , MetaKnight, King Dedede, Diddy Kong, and Olimar & Pikmin. There were a few fatalities 
 in the series, including Mewtwo, Pichu, Dr. Mario, Roy and Young Link. While some of the new characters 
 provide moderations to the current list (like Wolf compared to Fox and Falco) , most of them enter 
 with their own set of interesting moves and taunts. Others, like Captain Falcon and Ganondorf, 
 have been partially revamped to diversify the characteristics of similar styles of fighting.
  
  The fighting scheme is very much the same as before, but the big twist is in the Smash Ball 
 addition. When a character breaks the floating Smash Ball, they can unleash a move powerful enough 
 for an instant KO (Final Smash) . For example, Mario releases fireballs that increase in size and 
 push all the way across the screen. Fox jumps up into the sky and lands with his Landmaster Tank 
 and the ability to control it for about 17 seconds. Ness calls forth a flurry of shooting stars 
 to rain from the sky. Bowser transforms into Gigabowser and takes on numerous special effects. 
 Luigi sends players into the negative zone which has numerous special effects. Olimar takes off 
 in his spaceship, escapes the creatures from his series and then crashes back on the stage. Sonic 
 goes super with the Chaos Emerald and flies across the screen rapidly. Yoshi sports wings and starts 
 to shoot fire from his mouth. Ganondorf reverts to Ganon and charges payers off-screen. Link traps 
 an opponent in a Triforce barrier as he racks up high levels of damage. Jigglypuff grows to an 
 enormous size and puff out before deflating back to original size. Each move is accompanied by 
 different levels of power and effect, so they must be tried a couple times to figure out their 
 tricks.
  
  The stage selection is excellent. Only a few stages were passed through from Melee, but Battlefield 
 and Final Destination have been given a facelift and look more stunning than before. Included in 
 the new list of levels are the side-scroller World 1-1 & 1-2 from Super Mario Bros., a new Pokemon 
 Stadium with different terrain, Mario Circuit race course, Lylat Cruise from Star Fox, 75m as from 
 the original Donkey Kong, a new version of Game & Watch, and a new Yoshi's Story stage that changes 
 between the 4 seasons. The WarioWare stages forces you to complete additional on-screen demands 
 to receive special bonuses like starpower, size change, or life recovery. Pictochat has drawings 
 that appear on-screen that take on the effects of their shape (like fire burning you or walls blocking 
 you in. In the animal crossing stage, you can even view a concert if you are playing on it between 
 8pm-12am on Saturday evenings. The even bigger addition to the stage design is the stage builder 
 option. You can unlock several building pieces and design your own stages, with items such as moving 
 platforms, springs, spikes, and scenery.
  
  There are all the expected modes, including group fighting, classic mode, all-star mode, homerun 
 contest, multi-man melee, event matches, and target challenge. New to the game is the Subspace 
 mode, which is a story-based 1/2 player platformer game within the game. You gradually unlock characters, 
 trophies and stickers as you unravel the mystery that is taking over the Nintendo Universe. Included 
 within this mode are also Bosses. While Master and Crazy Hand can still be found in the Classic 
 mode, Subspace includes Ridley/Meta-Ridley, Petey Pirahna, Porky (from Earthbound) , and a couple 
 of other creatures. After completing the Subspace, you can unlock the Boss Battles mode in the 
 Stadium feature.
  
  Unlockables are huge in this game. There is a challenges section in the menu where you can get 
 a sense of what you need to accompish to unlock music, trophies, stages, stage builder parts, stickers, 
 and more. The game to snag trophies is also different. Now you take the coins you collect in the 
 other modes and play a coin shooter game where you take out chains of objects to gather stickers 
 and shoot passing trophies to pull them from the board. One of the greatest unlockables in the 
 game is actually the classic arcade section of the menu. As you play through different parts of 
 the game or unlock certain characters, you pick up classic games like F-Zero, Super Metroid, Donkey 
 Kong, Ocarina of Time, and Super Mario Bros. These are only demos, but it is still a great way 
 to revisit the games and decide if you want to get the whole edition through the Wii Shop Channel.
 
  
  If that wasn't enough, there is now an online play option. You can brawl in a free-for-all or 2 
 on 2 style play. This area is still a bit shaky and the lag can really inhibit even the best players 
 from truly showing off their abilities. If you want to just enjoy the battling of others, you can 
 be a spectator and gamble on the matches before they happen, with the ability to win coins and 
 sitckers.
  
  If have definitely talked up all of the positives of the game, but there are still a few shortcomings. 
 I already mentioned the internet connectivity, but thta may also be an issue with servers that 
 could improve in the future. I am a huge fan of the character list, but there are still some great 
 character additions I would love to see Nintendo make in the future. In some ways, the Subspace 
 mode is a perfect challenge, but even on Normal the computer can pick off your lives in a very 
 quick period of time in certain levels. There are also a couple of characters where the moves still 
 mirror each other too much. With the Star Fox crew, their basic and special moves are all the same 
 concept, just slight variation on display and effect. What bothers me though is the Smash Ball 
 attack since all three use the Landmaster. It would make more sense to have Fox use the Landmaster, 
 Falco use the Arwing, and Wolf call forth an attack from his Star Wolf crew. Same thing for Link/Toon 
 Link and Zelda/Sheik. Provide more variation in the future.
  
  There are few games out there that have so many modes, characters, and unlockables as this game 
 does. It of course is primarily a fighting game, but it really can be entertaining to even a newcomer 
 to the franchise. I cannot even imagine what the new edition with look like, either on the Wii 
 or the next generation beyond it and how much new content it will have. My vote is to bring back 
 some characters that have been taken out and maybe include more from certain series. I think there 
 is potential for a Dr. Mario character that has a final smash with the release of viruses or pull 
 in King K. Rool who can fire a cannon with random paths for the cannonballs. Just some thoughts. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninja_Rebel
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  First, the difficulty there really is no set difficulty because of the Wi-Fi which is never a bad 
 thing.
  Well, Super Smash Bros. Brawl the game with three delays or more under it's belt, but it is way 
 worth the wait. This game is amazing. The story is masterfully weaved together to bring all the 
 characters of Brawl to the final battle. The only real problem with the Subspace Emmisary (sp?) 
 is that towards the end it does get sorta repetitive, while it's not like doing everything over 
 and over again, you just feel like you might have done this or something similar just an hour ago. 
 There are many new features to add to this wonderful game, a system called stickers, a stage builder (which 
 is my personal fav. of the new additions to use) , Wi-Fi, video playbacks, and more. There is to 
 little room to talk about all the features. A main thing to note is the character selection, there 
 is a character for every form of player from hit and run, power strikers, defensive, annoy, no 
 matter what your style of play there is a character for you. While some characters I feel could 
 have been excluded for other people (like King Dedede because three from Kirby is just too many 
 for me) it is a wonderful game. Also something to note, is the new way of getting some trophies 
 and stickers, instead of the slot machine from Melee you now play a game with your coins shotting 
 them at enemies and trophies that appear and float across the screen. It is the easiest way to 
 get trophies. This is another must for any Wii owner. So, buy this game and let the brawl begin. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dR_PowerDrain
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is too massive to put all of it contents into one review, possibly two, But I 'll cover 
 the meat of it, the concept has remained the same, take as many Nintendo characters as possible, 
 put em in a stage, and have them beat the crap out of each other until their damage percentage 
 is high enough to send em flyin off the stage, but this time something new has been added to the 
 mix. This is the all powerful Smash Ball. This item will randomly appear and float around the map 
 until someone busts it open. Whoever does this is granted the ability to perform a final smash 
 which is usually a devastating blow that can take out multiple targets. Each one is specific to 
 the character, for example, Mario shoots a massive fireball out of his hands while Link traps the 
 opponent in a Triforce and continues to slash them. Each is creative and adds to a matches outcome 
 as well. The characters from previous installments In the Smash Bros. Series basically remain the 
 same (not to say they are boring to use) and with only a few missing from Melee. you'd think that 
 there would be enough characters already but Nintendo has added over ten new characters and each 
 of them are quite interesting and fun to use. Some are Wario from the WarioWare series, Pit from 
 Kid Icarus, and even Olimar from the Pikmin series. There are 35 characters in all and Nintendo 
 has kept the rule of anyone can beat anyone, meaning that everyone has a chance at beating any 
 opponent. This is great and actually gives me a reason to try other characters. The stages are 
 as varied as the characters and range from the first level of Super Mario Bros. (Not kiddin) to 
 Norfair from Metroid. Each stage has something that makes it special and each is a blast to play. 
 There are 41 in all so you shouldn't run out anytime soon. The different game modes are really 
 fun too. There is classic mode which is just beating one opponent to the next, the Subspace Emissary 
 which is like a sidescrolling adventure mode with some Brawling adding for fun, All-Star mode which 
 consists of you beating all 35 characters in a row with limited healing, Event Mode is completing 
 certain objectives, and many more. Lastly, we have the extras. Many new things have been added 
 to the series for Brawl and we'll look at some of the best. Stage Builder is just what it sounds, 
 you can create a custom stage and although design ideas are limited you can still build some pretty 
 complex stuff. Although taking pictures was available in Melee. you had to do a certain mode to 
 take em but in Brawl you can take them anytime you want during a match by pausing the game. Just 
 hitting pause randomly can result in some hilarious pictures. Last their is the replay option. 
 Any Vs. match you do can be saved to be played back again and although you can't edit the video 
 like Halo 3, it's stll a nice touch. Overall, Super Smash Bros. Brawl is a incredibly fun and massive 
 game and in this review I haven't even touched the boss battle run, home run contests, trophies 
 , stickers and so much more. Anyways, if you own a Wii buy this game, it's a must for fans and 
 casual gamers alike. (I know I didn't talk about Online but I haven't Done that many matches) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dewmandew7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Keith is an abnormal human being. He sits by me every day in Java class avoiding doing work, playing 
 his runescapes, and talking on his RvB forum. He pretends to be happy, but we all know that he's 
 not. There's something missing. He hasn't played Super Smash Bros. Brawl.
  
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl takes some of your most beloved characters of all time from Nintendo's 
 diverse color pallete of personalities and turns them into total jack ***es. From your favorite 
 Italian plumber Mario, to the eternally cheap Pit, to the lovable pink puffball Kirby, almost every 
 Nintendo game, known and unknown, is represented here.
  
  Super Smash Bros. takes allows up to four players to beat the crap out of each other in a fast 
 paced smash to the death. The game does have a variety of single player modes and online, but the 
 best part of Smash Bros. is playing multiplayer locally with your friends.
  
  However, I'll get the bad out of the way. The "main feature", I guess you could call it, of single 
 player is the Adventure Mode called Subspace Emissary. In this story told without words, almost 
 every character in the game joins forces to take out some emo boss at the end of the game. The 
 cutscenes are all really cool to watch, but the gameplay is bland. You go around beating up stupid 
 enemies that look like they're from Kingdom Hearts. You'd think with all of the licensed games 
 Nintendo has under its belt, they could use some licensed characters, like Goombas. However, the 
 game pits you against a generic enemy. This enemy wants to blow everything up with nuke like bombs. 
 We'll call them "Russia". However, they fail in the end because Sonic is apparently God. The worst 
 part of this mode is that you're practically forced to play it to get all of the characters. You 
 can always do x number of brawls to unlock characters, but do you really want to do 1,000 brawls 
 to unlock Jigglypuff? Thankfully, I have a brother that is very easily amused who played through 
 the entire thoroughfare for me.
  
  Fleshing out the single player gamut is Classic mode and All-star mode. Classic let's you choose 
 a character and go through a series of events to eventually reach the final boss, Master Hand (and 
 sometimes Crazy Hand) . All-star mode has you taking one character and beating every other character 
 in the game on one life and three damage restores. Both are way more fun than the eight hour Adventure 
 Mode and are much shorter.
  
  Rounding out single player is Events and Training. Events has you completing different random events 
 where you have to kill x number of character at exactly this time or taunting at just the right 
 moment or... you get the idea. Training includes such popular events as multiman brawls (up to 
 500) and Homerun contest (poor punchingbag) . Both of these features are nice little additions.
 
  
  Now let's take about online multiplayer. It sucks, plain and simple. Playing with anybody reduces 
 the frame rate to a healthy 5 fps (and that's not that much of an exaggeration) . My friend jumped 
 in the air once and came down about a minute later. You can bet on matches, but I advise not wasting 
 your time trying to play online with anybody.
  
  Playing with friends was noticeably better, probably just because I was playing with people who 
 knew how to set up their router better. There's still more lag than is acceptable, but it's better 
 than playing anybody. However, you have to get their friend code... AGAIN! Instead of just using 
 their 16 digit Wii console code, you need ANOTHER 12 digit code for this game. It just shows how 
 paranoid Nintendo is about their online service. Another major bain of the service is the lack 
 of voice chat and messaging. The lack of ability to message each other makes it extremely difficult 
 to set up a game. Also, since this is a game that really makes you want to scream at your friend, 
 the further exclusion of voice chat from the Wii's online is frustrating. Thankfully my friends 
 are all on Verizon, meaning we can just use our phones and use speaker without having to worry 
 about our phone bills.
  
  Well, not that I'm done tearing the bad parts of this game to shreds, let's talk about why I gave 
 this game a 9.5. The local multiplayer is AMAZING! With 35 characters that can be played across 
 41 Developer made stages (that doesn't include all of the user created stages that are possible 
 in the Stage Creator) and countless items, some of which have innumerable effects, your playtime 
 is always assured to be unpredictable. Each character has their own special quirks, strengths, 
 and weaknesses. Many times you have to find these on the fly, assuming you and your friends always 
 play as different characters. While some of these items, characters, stages are either bad or boring, 
 everybody will find at least a few of these they'll fall in love with. I'm currently rotating between 
 Toon Link, Pikachu, and Mr. Game and Watch. You can't go wrong. This game is like Rock Band where 
 you just have to get in a room with a bunch of your friends to really experience it. You're all 
 yelling at each other, "Oh crap!" is shouted innumerous times, and everybody's just having a blast. 
 
  
  In conclusion, while my review was incredibly negative, this game is amazing just from that last 
 paragraph. Be happy. I would have a longer review, but class is almost over. Keith loves you, that's 
 what he said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChiefMrBam
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Brothers is a series that has relied on two things right from the beginning amazing 
 multiplayer and the mindset that bigger is better. Brawl continues this tradition by giving players 
 some of the best multiplayer around while expanding on its everything & the kitchen sink attitude. 
 
  
  This time around Nintendo might as well have literally crammed the kitchen sink into the game. 
 All the modes from Smash Bros. previous are back along with a slew of new options like a Boss Battle 
 mode, online play, demos of classics, a level creator and a lengthy adventure mode which can be 
 played alone or cooperatively. On top of all this Brawl sports 35 combatants and 41 arenas to be 
 unlocked. 
  
  The gameplay is still the same Smash Bros. gameplay that its always been (fast and frantic death 
 matches) so if you were not a fan before this is not going to sway you. The adventure mode is fun 
 and lasts around 8 hours but it is not worth buying the game alone for. 
  
  The inclusion of online play is a nice idea and everything plays well and is generally not bad 
 with lag but to get everything out of the online you need friend codes. Smash Bros. is a game that 
 simply lives for local multiplayer and online can not compare to getting a group of friends over 
 to Brawl for a few hours.
  
  Brawl is a game for people who have a group of friends to play with. Others will find their mileage 
 with the game vary as online simply does not replicate the experience. For those who are already 
 fans of the series this is a no brainer as it is the same Smash Bros. you know and love made bigger 
 and better. Newcomers, with the friends to play with will also have a blast with Smash Bros. just 
 don't pick it up for single player alone.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Santhin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  If you own a Wii, you really do have to own a copy of this. This game will extend well beyond the 
 life of the console (just like the pervious Smash titles) , and will be the one game your friends 
 from out of town will want to play when they come over to visit.
  
  I really can't see any reason to review it beyond that. It's Smash, it's done well, it's fun.
 
  
  I guess the only thing to ask yourself is, should you buy a Wii for Smash? Well, the answer really 
 has to do with how much you enjoyed Melee and the original. There's not more to say than that it 
 has the same magic and wonder as the previous ones (of course, it's better, but it is right for 
 the time it is released) , and if you liked them, you'll like it.
  
  The single player is pretty good, on its own it'd be a decent game, but that's not why you're buying 
 it. Unlike other multiplayer titles though, you don't need to consider multiplayer only if you 
 have friends, because this is the kind of game that is worth keeping around in case anyone should 
 ever come to visit. Even if you're not playing it now, considering it an investment for a year 
 down the road when your old college buddy is in town. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicLucas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  This is a great game for any wii owner to purchase, in my opinion it IS the best- And here is why:
 
  
  Gameplay 9.5/10 
  -------------------
  Wide array of stages and their factors that make 2 platform stages that look alike completley different; 
 giving players a reason to strategize what stage they pick (EX Sky world destructible platforms 
 allow you to jum up and through th e platforms like you normally would unless the stage is not 
 damaged.)
  
  All the characters all have such different movesets and battle strategies and there is no specific 
 comboes for anyone to choose- you make it your own; that way to people playing as the same character 
 may fight completley differently (EX a player that depends mostly on smash attacks to finish off 
 foes and ones that combo off the stage and recover OR one who rarely uses smashes but depends on 
 aerial attacks)
  ITS CRAZY
  
  Old gameplay modes make a return along with some welcomed (with open arms) new ones. Classic mode 
 can become a little tiresome after 35 characters though. Subspace Emissary was cool but as you 
 went along in your all nighter and were tired you need to give it a break or it'll become boring.
 
  
  reg. Brawls are awesome too (DUH)
  
  PROS:
  -Wide array of characters and movesets.
  -Broad range of stages that are each unique
  -Two 
 characters fighting each other WILL have dif. styles
  -Clever movesets (Ness and Lucas are not clones they play completley differently) (same with the 
 landmaster Trio
  -Almost Every thing
  
  CONS:
  -Beating Classic over and over gets boring at some point
  -Some subspace levels are kind of annoying
 
  
  
  Music 10/10
  -------------------------
  Anyone who kept up with the hype of this game from the beginning know how much work they put into 
 the music in this game.
  Many pieces of music in this were so wacky they fit in perfectly or were (ugh)
  "hardcore" and 
 let you geyt into the game and was so addictive. They even give the power to change what tracks 
 play on a stage and each stage has multiple song choices
  (my favorite was 02's theme from kirby c/s)
  
  PROS: 
  EVERYTHING 
  
  Collection and 
 Customization (9/10)
  -----------------------------------------------------------------
  Collecting Trophies can be Hard but boy is it fun, (trying to NOT klill taboo on intense in subspace, 
 getting a trophy stand AND THEN actually hitting him with it is close to impossible)
  
  Just reading a trophy's description is extremely fun you learn much about that character or item 
 or whatever and it gives you more insight into the game and that trophy's past
  
  They also let you setup snapshots- it's JUST AWESOME
  
  Stage builder is also something that 
 leaves you saying "woh man its 4 am!, last time i checked it was still 6 pm!
  
  Coin launcher is also a good fun time killer when youre bored just do that.
  
  PROS:
  -Finding 
 and hunting down trophies is fun and difficult
  -Getting Boss's trophies will leave you feeling like a bwamillion bucks.
  -Snapshots arre really 
 fun to use and to setup.
  
  CONS:
  -not much but its really annoying to get taboo -.-
  
  Online Play:
  ---------------------------
  I'll go straight to PROS and CONS on this
 
  (im gonna feel bad)
  
  PROS:
  -well, it's online :C
  -Online with FRIENDS is fun
  
  CONS:
  -AWWW LAG is TERRIBLE
  -TIMED matches online with no stock matches is annoying
 
  -Lag is HORRENDOUS
  
  This game will always call out to you if you feel your wii is getting dusty if you dont get this 
 for your wii you are missing out on one of the best wii games of the year
  * fastest selling nintendo game to date
  * Nintendo has diagnosed as a Gaming Phenomenom
  
 
  BUY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keving7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl is a game that many gamers, and non gamers have been looking foreward to 
 for a very long time. It has been 7 years since the release of Super Smash Bros Melee for the Nintendo 
 Gamecube and gamers want more. More options, more characters, more stages and more fun. Nintendo 
 delivers with Super Smash Bros Brawl.
  
  The Good:
  -More Characters-35 in total!
  -More Stages-many great new stages, and classic stages
  -More Game Modes-All star, boss, classic, 
 adventure mode, even mode add to the depth in a series that otherwise had been shallow.
  -Online Play-simply put, a dream come true, and doesn't lag very often
  -Many Control styles
 
  
  There are many ways to play Super Smash Bros, being able to use the gamecube controller, classic 
 controller, wii remote (with or without nunchuck) so basically anyone can pick it up and play with 
 there own control style. The Character selection was phenomenal. They added nearly all of the previous 
 characters (except young link and mewtwo) and added many new classic characters (and some not so 
 classic) . The lack of true "clones" is very satisfying, having gandondorf differ from captian falcon 
 ALOT more makes me happy, along with wolf being very different and others. Sonic and Solid Snake 
 are great additions and don't mess up the flow of the game. There are many more game modes than 
 classic, adventure and event modes, there is boss mode, a new adventure mode and all star mode, 
 not to mention stickers and a bunch of other collectibles. The modes add to the depth in an other 
 wise shallow series. Brawl is definately the most robust, complete titles of the 3 games. Last 
 but not least, Online Play... what we have all been waiting for. Super Smash bros is only so much 
 fun with computers, and if you don't have the 3 other friends to play, dont worry hop online and 
 the fun will begin in a matter of minutes. There is little to no lag in games that i have experienced 
 and takes less time than Halo 3 to find a match. 
  
  The "Bad"
  -Graphics haven't improved much
  -Some characters are pointless and unneeded
  -no online leaderboards
 
  -only 32 player tournaments (down from 64)
  
  
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl hasn't changed much since the gamecube version control wise. Graphics are 
 sharper and colors are more vivid, but they aren't something to stare at. I have an issue with 
 characters like lucas and toon link, nearly exact copies of their elder characters (link and ness) . 
 Toon Link is Okay in my mind, he is faster, more agile and has a slight difference in attacks, 
 but lucas is a waste of space that could have been filled with anyone from waluigi to tails. Lucas 
 is nearly the same as ness with minor differenes. He is not nostalgic to really anyone and was 
 only featured in one game that nobody has played. I know it was japan only, but seriously, there 
 are enough japan only characters in the game, its not like there are any "American only" characters 
 any way. Captian Olimar is a whole different story. First of all, he is unique, I'll grant him 
 that, but he sucks and is probably only in the game to publicisize the next pikmin game. he is 
 god awful and another "waste of space" character. There are no online leaderboards so there really 
 isnt any insentive to play online. And Tournaments in game only go up to 32 people which is kinda 
 lame.
  
  Overall the positives out weigh the negatives by ALOT and is Near 10.0 perfect. It is a MUST buy 
 for any wii user, frankly it's a MUST buy for any video gamer out there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xMeHRuNeSDaGoNx
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  We all had insanely high expectations for this game, including me. That's why the majority of us 
 were dissapointed. BUT! This game held up it's promise in delivering action-packed fighting and 
 insane multiplayer options. I think the best part of the game is in it's soundtrack. A lot of the 
 old-school tunes are all packed into this game and you can listen to them whenever you want.
  
  Gameplay 10.0 - Why change somthing that's already perfect?
  
  Graphics 10.0 - Super Smash 
 brothers doesn't need great graphics to be a masterpiece of a game. But they sure did a hell of 
 a job on the Subspace Emissary cutscenes and i LOVED it!!!!!!
  
  Sound 10.0 - I wish I could give it an 11 out of 10. The music in the game is so great and memory 
 jogging that they will probaly make you want to play some of the old games you used to play when 
 you were a kid. 
  
  Value 10.0 - This is what super smash bros. was always known for. addicting and long lasting gameplay. 
 Hundred of hours will go by in your life playing with your friends deep into the midnight and straight 
 into the morning with not a care in the world!!! 
  
  Overall score 10.0 - need i say more? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t_j_752
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  All in all i will agree, this game is great, it lives up to the hype, yaddayadaa yadda, but like 
 i say it needs work still. This game, like all three in the seris, are more or less great party 
 games, or games that are fun to play with other people. Thats all fine, I realy enjoyed the 2-player 
 adventure mode, but the single player play gets boring fast. You go through Adventure mode and 
 Classic mode and unlock everyone and then your done. You can quickly lose itrest after everyone 
 is unlocked because theres nothing left to do! Sure you can get all the music and trophys and all 
 the extra crap but it seems to tedious to deal with. 
  
  One of the best parts of the game in my opinion is that they didn't forget Wario for once! I was 
 very surprised not to see the fatty in the first two along with the likes of Sonic and the Zero-Suit 
 Samus. They probably still missed lots of charectors such as: Daisy, Waluigi, Birdo, and in my 
 mind Knuckles and Tails should be selectible/unlockable as well.
  
  Don't get me wrong i still enjoy the game but in my opinion its more of a multiplayer game than 
 anything, still a must buy for all wii owners definetly! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theantihero101
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  I had a thought that If Super Smash Bros. Brawl can actually be more successful than Super Smash 
 Bros. Melee. It turns out I was right. This actually beats melee. A bigger roster (except Roy, 
 Pichu, Dr. Mario, & Young Link are removed D'=) , final smashes, Solid Snake & Sonic the Hedgehog, 
 a great story mode, almost everything Nintendo pulled off. I also thought this game had a blend 
 with both the original and Melee. It turns out I was somewhat right. Well, mostly Melee. The gameplay 
 is still the same, the graphics look beautiful, and the music is well done & remade. The voice 
 actors, with the exception of Jason Griffith as Sonic, everyone else who provided the characters 
 very good. Some still have their Japanese Voices. And some characters just have grunts & sounds. 
 Well, if you have taken your Gamecube/Wii with Super smash Bros. Melee to a friend's or a party, 
 then you might as well bring your Wii with Super Smash Bros. Brawl. And I recommend you all to 
 get this game, it's very amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Multiplayer brawls are a blast to play; a ton of different options and secrets; online 
 is a great addition; tons of characters, each with a unique set of moves; graphics look amazing; 
 a large amount of music from some of Nintendo's greatest franchises; the most detailed and fun-filled 
 maps you'll ever see in a fighter.
  
  The Bad: Story Mode (Subspace Emissary) gets old fast; can't battle on custom levels online; Wi-fi 
 has a bit of a delay on the controls most of the time; why are the Ice Climbers still here? Get 
 lost!
  
  Okay, odds are we all know Super Smash Bros. The first one wasn't a gigantic hit with critics, 
 but pitting your favorite Nintendo characters against eachother was just plain fun. The second 
 installment, Super Smash Bros. Melee was awesome. It sold the most copies of any Gamecube game, 
 and really improved on the formula set by its predecessor. Now, Super Smash Bros. Brawl is upon 
 us, and after many, many annoying delays, it's time to pit our favorite characters against eachother 
 again, in one of the biggest video game clashes you'll ever experience.
  
  Let's start off with the gameplay. First off, there are a ton of modes. There's the good old Classic 
 Mode from previous games, a Special Battle Mode (where you can customize battle options) , Brawl 
 Mode, and many others, including a fun and in depth stage builder. The newest and most surprising 
 addition would have to be "The Subspace Emissary", which is basically the story mode. Villains 
 (such as Bowser, Wario, Ganondorf, and the like) are wiping out all of the Nintendo characters, 
 turning them into trophies, and forming mysterious black holes wherever they go. It's kind of strange, 
 but decent towards the end, even if it's hard to follow at times. Subspace Emissary is pretty long 
 too, and therein lies the problem. The levels are based off of various Nintendo characters history 
 and background (such as a jungle for Donkey Kong) , but these levels start to get very dull and 
 repetitive. Unfortunately, this mode is how you get most of the hidden characters, so you'll be 
 forcing your way through it just to get them. It's got some gorgeous cutscenes in between the levels, 
 however. Since it's the only way to get some of the characters, this is the games biggest disappointment 
 by far.
  
  But let's move to the actual gameplay, which involves you picking a Nintendo (or other type) of 
 character and beating the crap out of eachother. The original Super Smash Brothers only had 12 
 characters, Melee doubled that and came in with 25 characters. Brawl has the biggest lineup yet, 
 with a whopping 35 characters including unlockables. Of course, like in the last game, there are 
 some characters, like Fox and Falco, that have one or two differences, but are basically the same. 
 Nevertheless, the character line up has a ton of variety to it, and you'll enjoy mastering a ton 
 of their moves to develop a good strategy.
  
  Each character has an "A" attack, which is their normal attack, a "B" attack, which is a special 
 attack, a jump and double jump. However, by pressing up, down, left and right in conjunction with 
 your "A" and "B" attacks, you can pull of cool combos, and attacks. It's such an easy game to pick 
 up and play, and the way the controls are used in the different levels call for a good amount of 
 timing and strategy.
  
  There's also a lot of items that pop up around the battlefields. The old ones are still there including 
 the poke' ball, bumper, and the almighty hammer. There are some new ones as well. There's a sticky 
 bomb which will attach to anyone you throw it at, but they can transfer it to another player by 
 hitting them before the bomb explodes, and super spicy curry, which makes you player run uncontrollably 
 fast while he/she breathes fire constantly. The two biggest items that'll help you defeat your 
 opponent easier however are, first: assist trophies, which release side characters like Tingle 
 from Majora's Mask, or a Nintendog, that do damage or block the screen in some way, and second: 
 the Final Smash Ball. The Final Smash Ball is the most important item in this game. It will pop 
 up randomly, and when it does, it's a mad dash to break it open. It takes a couple of hits, but 
 whoever breaks it open can press "B" to activate their Final Smash. Each Final Smash is different, 
 but all of them deal extreme damage to one or all enemies. It's one of Brawls greatest additions.
 
  
  The levels are also unique. The battlefields will constantly change in many ways, and their the 
 most unique levels that you'll ever find in a fighter.
  
  Let's move on to the graphics. The characters look amazing. This is no doubt the best looking Wii 
 game out today. The levels also shine. They capture each characters distinctive environment with 
 amazingly accurate results. The cutscenes in the Subspace Emissary are probably the games strongest 
 graphical point. They're absolutely jaw-dropping.
  
  Now to the sound. You'll hear those screams and cries you'd expect from the series when you're 
 hit or attacking. But there's some new ones in there, though they're not too noticeable. The music 
 ranges from almost every Nintendo game out there, and each one sounds authentic and well orchestrated. 
 You'll not be disappointed with any of the games music.
  
  The game will last you a pretty long time. Subspace Emissary is annoyingly long, and online manages 
 to prolong the experience a great deal. Also, you'll probably be playing this every once in a while 
 when someone comes over (unless you have no friends... that would kind of suck...) .
  
  Altogether, Super Smash Bros. Brawl is an amazing fighter, one of the best to come around in a 
 long, long time. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: queovole
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  I was disappointed by this game. I have finished it twice with yoshi and link and came to the conclusion, 
 It sucks! Can't believe gamespot gave it a 9.5 and is editors choice. I went to buy it cause of 
 gamespot and couldn't stay quiet cause I was lied to. Its a damn remake of the gamecube smash brothers 
 melee, only with some minor improvements. Nintendo what happened? The graphics are what you would 
 expect from the WII, not much. No real skill is required just button smash away! If you like your 
 graphics and using your skill, stay away from this game. I regret buying it and will be stored 
 away with the rest of the "games that suck!" 
  
  Anyway that Nintendo bought off gamespot to get a good review? Highly likely if you ask me. For 
 this reason I give it a fairly earned 6.5 
  NO BS from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garcia28
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2008 12:11 am PT
Review:  Just kidding!! It exceeds all my expectations. It's simple, easy to play, and a great way to pass 
 the time. Not to mention, like it's predecessors, it allows you to continue those great Nintendo 
 dream fights! Now, it's up to you to determine who's the better mascot, Mario or Link, Donkey Kong 
 or Kirby. What's sick is that now you can play as Solid Snake and Sonic the Hedgehog (after you 
 unlock them of course) ! I've only logged in a couple of hours with the game, but I feel I'll be 
 putting in many more! The single player quest mode is a bit more extensive than before and plays 
 almost like an RPG. Stickers that you collect throughout the quest act as power-ups for the characters 
 in your party. The roster, again, consists of a strong cast of Nintendo greats. If they only put 
 Little Mac in there... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akatsuki398
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2008 11:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is the most intense game I've ever played. I just loved how they put as many Nintendo 
 into the game as physically possible. There's over a dozen characters you can play from. Like Mario, Samus, Star 
 Fox, Luigi, R. O. B, Mr. Game and  think) , Falco, Captian Falcon, Snake, Sonic, and 
 many more. The graphics to the game is just so sick and updated, that it beats Red Steel. The difficulty 
 is somewhat out of the line when you set it to normal. The event mode is pretty annoying at times, but 
 mission 14, that's a nightmare that should never be repeated. It's like your grandfather's mental 
 disorder from Vietnam. Anyways, the final smashes to every character is just incredible, like for 
 example. Mario and is kamehameha like-fire technique. The final smashes are intense, big, and bad, but 
 if one of your opponents get the final smash orb, I suggest you pray yourself to God and run like 
 a little girl. Plus you can compete in SSE or story mode, which is long and huge. As you play the 
 mode you unlock characters that are new to Brawl. But I don't like how I just fight your way through 
 enemies through a side scrolling stage. Another way to unlock characters is to play a hundred Brawl 
 matches, but I just stick to that method other than going on SSE. Because it's a good practice on 
 walking through your path of being an expert at the game. Just playing 400 Brawl matches is just 
 way too fun. You can decide on what the match would look like on Special Brawl. Like a Bunny, curry, mega 
 size, metal, fast motion match. Hahaha, it's wack. They're are two types of match types, Team Battle, and 
 the original Brawl. If you get tired of a 2-minute battle, you can just make it to how long you want 
 the match to be. Oh, and if you're tired of two player battles, you can just add some cpu's to heat 
 the party up. Setting the difficulty from woosie through nasty. The classic mode is just fighting 
 your way through mini-games and oponents until you encounter the Master Hand, who is supposed to 
 be the antagonist of the series. There's nothing special to it. Also there's a ton of items you can 
 use in battle suck as the fire flower, super mashroom, poison mushroom, ray gun, assist trophy, bombs, and 
 many more. I always love the bomb. If that bomb hits the desired target after being thrown, it makes 
 a holy mother of Isis explosion that is capable of launching everyone into the air. They're are 
 a few characters that I don't like. Those would be Diddy Kong, Captain Falcon, Peach, and Olimar. Diddy 
 Kong's attacks are just tottaly useless. And that peanut blaster really is poo poo. Captain Falcon's 
 attacks are increasingly strong, but slow. Peach. Oh no she's bad, but it's not her fault. She's a girl 
 okay? And Olimar! Man he raises the mediocrity to a whole new level. Vault is one of my all time favorites. My 
 favorite concept of going around the vault is Masterpiece. You can play several of the classic Nintendo 
 games from the SNES, N64, and the NES. But they're trial versions, so you can't play the whole game. Gameplay 
 time is a minute or two long, so you need to buy the games from Wii Shop. But you need Wi-fi connections. At 
 first, the controls are pretty quirky, but when you play it longer you get into the motion of it. You 
 can play Super Smash Bros. Brawl in different ways. You can use the classic controller, nunchuks, Gamecube 
 controllers, and the Wii remote without its nunchuks. Which I never tried the Stage Builder before. My 
 favorite characters to play are Lucario, Pit, Link, Falco, and Star Fox. There are three mini-games. Home 
 and run, target smash, and polygon battle. Home and run is to test how hard you can hit the sandbag 
 miles away. Target smash is a little bit harder than the other Stadium games. And Polygon battle 
 has more than one type of matches. They'res 10 man,50 man,100 man, infinite man, and even cruel. Well, that's 
 it. Just enjoy the game and have a good night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quadlazor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 10:47 pm PT
Review:  I got this game the day after it came out and I'm still lpven it. The game does get old by youself 
 but keeps the fun with friends or strangers (online) for an almost endless amount of time. The subspace 
 emmesary (story) is pretty fun it kept me interested for almost 12hours. Unlocking the characters 
 was pretty lame because you get all but 3 from the story. There are many and I repeat many events 
 and challenges to do after you beat the story to keep you going. Overall it is a very fun game 
 like the two before but with four different control styles. You can use the remote and nunchuck, 
 just the remote, the classic controller, or a gamecube controller if you still have one kicked 
 around the house/storage. Over all I would give the game a 9.5/10 it doesn't quite deserve a perfect 
 ten yet. And as a bonus you can unlock old school games which are always fun. So pick the game 
 up and I'll see you online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ish27
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl, the successor to Super Smash Bros. Melee, is a magnificent game. Here 
 are my ratings and the explanations for them.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  SSBB has 4 different control systems, leaving no excuse for anyone to complain about not being 
 able to adapt to the controls. With 35 characters and dozens of items, no match is ever the same. 
 The only thing is that the level 9 AI's seems easier than Melee's. I was hoping for the level 9 
 to be impossible to beat (even for Ken lol) .
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Brawl is definitely a step up from Melee in terms of graphics. As visible in the early trailer, 
 we can see how Mario and Link receive an upgrade. This rating is given knowing that the Wii is 
 not HD. What I don't like is the fact that the Mario in Super Mario Galaxy is better than the one 
 in Brawl, which is what leads me to this rating. Brawl is the Halo of the Wii, and should have 
 received better, or at least equal, graphics to that of Galaxy.
  
  Sound: 9.5/10
  With a HUGE list of tracks, both new and old, Brawl leaves no gamer the right to say that no song 
 strikes their fancy. The sound effects are also done perfectly. Seriously, who doesn't love the 
 sound of swords clashing?
  
  Lasting Appeal: 10/10
  Just like Melee, which is still being played today, Brawl will still be played years from now, 
 until Nintendo's next console is released, and possibly after. With all of the features from Melee, 
 AND the addition of online, this is by far one of the greatest four-player games of all time.
 
  
  There are only a few downsides to Brawl, but these are mostly due to the Wii itself. The online 
 can be laggy, even with players that live near you, and sometimes may take ages for the game to 
 find players. If you are in a Basic Brawl, and meet some players you would like to replay, you 
 cannot add them to your friends list. The lack of voice chat takes out some fun (though it's not 
 fun when a 12 year old kid gets on whilst having diarrhea of the mouth) .
  
  Final Verdict: 9.5/10 (only due to the aforementioned downsides, as I said, mostly due to the Wii 
 itself, not the game) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hikaru_Isamu
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the first and last time I'll ever give a game a 10/10. I'm a huge Super Smash 
 Bros. fan, but anyone I've ever played this game with agrees with me.
  
  I'll jump into the most important part first: the multiplayer. It's pure, simple fun that anyone, 
 regardless of skill level or age can enjoy. I have a friend who hates Nintendo, and trash talks 
 the Wii at any chance he gets. After playing Brawl with me, he was leaning towards the television, 
 completely immersed.
  
  The single player is just as fun, though. You have challenges, events, Classic mode, Subspace Emissary 
 (which is more or less Adventure mode with a story) , everything to keep you busy for many hours.
 
  
  There are plenty of unlockables. And by plenty, I mean ungodly amounts. Trophies, stickers, characters, 
 stages, soundtracks. If you're the type that likes to see every nook and cranny of a game, be prepared 
 to invest a lot of time into this game.
  
  Make sure you have a Gamecube or Classic controller, though; using the Wii remote is almost out 
 of the question. It's really awkward to use the Wii's controller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warhawk256
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Tossing a bunch of Nintendo characters into a ring to pummel each other was nothing more than a 
 novel concept back in the Nintendo 64 era. As time goes on, fans just want more: characters, stages, 
 options, moves, and more Nintendo-ness. Quite simply, Super Smash Bros. Brawl represents the most 
 complete and thorough form of Nintendo fan-service on a disc, while still offering a kick-ass and 
 addictive fighting game.
  
  Is it even a fighting game, though? Sure; players must try to defeat other players by attacking 
 them  the very definition of a fighting game. Instead of replicating the traditional one-on-one 
 style of fighting games that require players to deplete their opponent's life bar, Smash is about 
 physically knocking opponents off the screen, which becomes easier to do as they rack up damage. 
 Like sumo wrestling, if the sumo wrestlers could jump in mid-air and use fireballs.
  
  Brawl is four-player madness at its best. The amount of characters, stages, and items on display 
 makes for wildly unpredictable matches every time. The fact that all four characters are always 
 visible (no need to split the screen into four pieces) makes Smash the most fun four guys can have 
 in the same room with a video game.
  
  Yet, when you wanted a full multiplayer game of Super Smash Bros. Melee, most of the hassle came 
 from dragging three other guys to the TV. For those times when friends just aren't readily available, 
 Brawl offers the long-awaited option for online play.
  
  Multiplayer with random people only offers basic free-for-all and team battle modes with the same 
 rule: most KOs within two minutes wins. As long-time fans of the series know, however, two minutes 
 just isn't enough. For the full option set (time limits, lives, handicaps, custom taunts, etc.) , 
 as well as the ability to play certain modes co-operatively, you'll need to exchange unique twelve-digit 
 friend codes with other players.
  
  As with most fighting games, however, lag during gameplay and the control inputs can kill the online 
 experience. Players who have exchanged friend codes tend to receive must smoother connections, 
 while lone wolves can experience some pretty unbearable lag, to the point that matches with two-minute 
 timers can take five mintues in real time to finish. To put it bluntly, this is a total bummer.
 
  
  The last two Smash games offered vague skeletons of a single-player adventure mode, but Brawl offers 
 an 8-10 hour adventure called Subspace Emissary. First and foremost, don't play this mode for the 
 story: it makes zero sense (something about an army of darkness invading Nintendoland and turning 
 all of the characters into statues) , and feels crafted by rabid Nintendo fan-fiction writers. The 
 cutscenes explaining this story may look beautiful, but they miss a lot of opportunities for dream 
 scenarios that Nintendo fans would have reason to get excited about. Why the heck are Fox McCloud 
 and Diddy Kong fighting a giant Pokemon? More importantly, did anybody actually want to see this?
 
  
  Subspace Emissary is a lot of fun, though, because it keeps those story elements light while focusing 
 most of its effort on letting players beat the snot out of a bunch of enemies and bosses. It also 
 provides some light platforming elements and secret doors to find, like Kirby Super Star starring 
 Nintendo characters, and even includes some light RPG elements for buffing up the characters in 
 your party. Best of all, two players can play this mode cooperatively.
  
  For the first time, Smash includes the appearance of non-Ninendo franchises with playable characters 
 Snake (Metal Gear) and Sonic (Sonic the Hedgehog) . They fit right in while still representing their 
 series' heritage well. Hopefully these two characters are a sign of things to come from the series, 
 where Smash becomes a home for all recognizable video game characters outside of Nintendo as well.
 
  
  There's no shortage of things to do in Brawl: the Classic and All-Star modes, Target Test, Home-Run 
 Contest, Multi-Man Brawl, Boss Gauntlet, spectating and betting on online matches, Coin Launcher, 
 Stage Builder, Event Matches plus all of the auxillary features like viewing collected trophies 
 and stickers and watching saved replays. With 39 unique playable characters, 41 stages, hundred 
 of trophies and stickers to collect and options for near infinite replay value, gargantuan doesn't 
 even begin to describe the amount of content in Brawl.
  
  I can't give Brawl a perfect score in good faith, because quite frankly, some things about it will 
 drive some people mad: the sketchy online play, the surprisingly long load times, the repetitiveness 
 of Subspace Emissary  just to name a few. Nintendo fans probably won't let such wrinkles bother 
 them, though. And Super Smash Bros. Brawl is a game designed with the Nintendo fan in mind. Just 
 like Melee on GameCube, Brawl is the most raw fun you'll have with the Wii all year. And next year. 
 And the year after that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 70sguygx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  I'll start with the good. I'm pleased with the introduction of Sonic the Hedgehog. I'm also pleased 
 with the variety of new stages. The Subspace Emmissary was a genious idea. I also like the new 
 checklist system. It helps you unlock all of the unlockables without cheating easier. The online 
 play was almost the entire reason I bought this game. And the stage builder always gives you a 
 reason the keep playing. Now here's the things I don't like. The stage builder was a big disappointment 
 for me. It's too simple and limits how much you can build. I was also angered by the the fact that 
 Wolf was included, making him the third Fox clone, yet Roy was excluded. I was most disappointed 
 with the target test. It should have been like the last game where each character had a unique 
 target test. And another thing is that many of the stages are complex and some of my favorite melee 
 stages were exclude. R. I. P. Fountain of Dreams, Great Bay Temple, Mute City, and Peach's Castle. 
 Less seriously, I'm saddened that Fox and Falco no longer say Hiya! and that Kirby's Hi is less 
 drawn out, therefore less cute. And what's up with Pikachu's down taunt? But don't get me wrong, 
 this is an excelent game and makes a great addition to the SSB family. It is an absolute neccessity 
 for anyone with a Wii to own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acdcgamer316
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Well, after several years of waiting, we all FINALLY got Brawl, but there was always one question 
 on our minds: Was it worth the wait? Oh yeah it was!
  
  Brawl is awesome, fantastic, amazing, perfect, ownage, pretty much any aweome word you can describe. 
 It pretty much adds on to how awesome Melee was with new characters, new game modes, and the ability 
 to play online!!! For you Melee players out there, I have to say that there are some different 
 things in Brawl than in Melee, and it somewhat requires getting used to, but it doesn't take long 
 and you'll be addicted for 10 hours of your life after starting the game. The characters seem to 
 be a little more floaty, the aerial dodge is different, you can't adjust your shield, and the pacing 
 of the game is slower than in Melee, but it's still exciting and awesome nonetheless. Almost all 
 of the characters seem balanced out and as equal as possible, although they are different in many 
 ways, but you should be able to find a character that should easily be balanced enough for you, 
 especially if you've played Melee. However, after all of this, I just have to say that this game 
 has only one con: You have input lag when you play online. However, you can get pretty used to 
 it, and it has dropped quite a bit since the game came out, but it's still there. However, the 
 good thing about this is that someone has no right to brag if they beat you, because you are put 
 at a serious disadvantage with input lag. Otherwise, the multiplayer and online multiplayer mode 
 is fantastic, and the adventure mode is pretty good as well, definitely better than in Melee, although 
 it can be a bit tedious at times. Otherwise, this game is definitely worth it for 50 bucks, and 
 I highly recommend getting this game ASAP, but demand is always higher than supply at the start, 
 so yeah. Otherwise, this game is awesome, if not the best game of 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssbbman
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2008 5:41 am PT
Review:  cool game please give me your fc for who checks my profile and tell me from where r u and if u 
 r a game spot contact tell me iam gonna brawl u ALL!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! and i thank Nintendo great 
 job its a epic game sse cool wi fi cool its fantastic!!! and iam waiting for Mario kart wii when 
 it comes out iam gonna race u  and beat you  
 stay  and iam a Nintendo fan from 6 years old and its better than 
 melee way better ,big time better its cool and u cant be bored of it until a long time!!!!!!!!!! 
 and mario kart wii i will make a review later mario wii is cool too but why in erope first 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew_LL
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 10:35 pm PT
Review:  The Super Smash Brothers series has gone on for almost a decade now. Games have risen up and taken 
 the game by the neck and throttled it into the laying corpse it is now. Let me clarify this bold 
 statement: 
  
  The Graphics: Not up to standards on my ultra-high definition television. I have yet to see Nintendo 
 pull a rabbit out of its hat in terms of cinematic quality. 
  
  The Gameplay: Now to the meat of this Nintendo sandwich. Well what can I say? Can Nintendo carry 
 on the legacy that is "Super Smash Bros"? Well the plain answer is "no". I miss the lack of action. 
 While I am sipping my chilled beverage with my buddies, I sense no need to pick up the controller. 
 Why some people might even say they control themselves! 
  
  The Sound: Youth is a fountain of 8-bit tunes for me. I remember being in my den with my old Super 
 Nintendo and playing good games like Chrono Trigger and Super Mario RPG (not the sell-out one that 
 was called "Paper Mario". The tunes got stuck in my head for days, amid the indie-rock tunes of 
 my youth. Speaking of which, I have Dolby 7.1 surround sound and I have NOT got my money's worth 
 from this game. The sound comes out 8-bit, and it stays 8-bit! I would even dare to say that it 
 is 128kps-quality and mono! 
  
  The Presentation: This game presents itself with a flair of ignorance towards its group. The colors 
 do not match well. I would know since I recently graduated from a Liberal Arts College. The color 
 wheel was NOT put into effect here. I would even dare to say that color was an afterthought! Black 
 and white would not have helped even. This is more comparable to a B-movie than an Eraserhead or 
 Citizen Kane. 
  
  Overall: I feel this game has an air of disappointment wafting about. It rises to the rafter and 
 settles, leaving the smell there for days. I will return this soon, and I will spend the money 
 on clothes or something else needed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pinata_on_Fire
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2008 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo characters with sonic and snake too. They all make the best party, competitive, fun, and 
 overall best fighting on the market. It is a platforming style fighting game where there are many 
 platforms and other environmental objects that behave differently. If you try this, and think that 
 characters are unbalanced, they're not. Each character has unique power, weight, jumping, etc. 
 Solo: It has many different modes including an adventure/story, classic (Just battles sequenced) , 
 stadium (many things) , all-star (added after getting all playable characters) , and training. Group: 
 Brawl (just fight) , Special Brawl (Brawl with added conditions) , Tourney, with other rules. Vault: 
 All added things and collectibles like built stages and trophies. Brawl also comes with Wi-Fi Connection 
 to battle friends and random people. So unless you hate parties, (cartoon) violence, Nintendo, 
 and overall fun this is the game for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpYdEr_VeNoM
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Listen, this game is truly amazing. If you want one game... just ONE game on the Wii, this is it. 
 This game has everything you name it. Stage builder, trophies, stickers, new stages, classic games, 
 and more. There are more surprising characters that I had no idea would be there. ( Nintendo must've 
 been really begging to Sony and Sega to get Snake and Sonic.) There is an adventure mode, Thank 
 God!!! Instead of playing all those brawl matches, you can finally just play the adventure. great 
 game for kids, my nephew really enjoys. You can play with your friends also. Just buy it. You won't 
 regret it. Great game. The gameplay is also fun, and the events are great. There is also Coop events 
 and you can play with other people. Great party game, I must say. Without this game, it makes my 
 stack of games look empty. If I didn't have this game at this party, my house would be torn apart 
 by little children. Thank you Nintendo for making another masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Martinvald101
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Brawl is the Best in the Smash Brawl series that came out! How is game so great and the Best for 
 Wii? Graphics are excellent, Moves and attacks and Stages changed so much from Melee! The Stage 
 Builder is great to make your own stage and Customize your own music and such. The New thing was 
 characters Final Smashes. Change the Phase of the game to a whole other LEVEL! Also the Challenges 
 makes it complicated to get! All New CHARACTERS such as Lucario and Ike are Great! I hope that 
 make a New Brawl game! Has a great Multi player Action.
  
  The Bad parts about smash is that some characters are very cheap. One Character is cheap ( For 
 Me only) Is Wario. Moves are very cheap and strong to KO anyone. Also some characters have the 
 same final Smash. That sucks because they could a least change it. Maybe Falco using an Arwing 
 would be cool! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfpackfrenzy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  Story 8/10:
  +The subspace emissary (SSE) is a cool story based adventure.
  -SSE was hard to follow. With no vocals or subtitles, it was difficult to tell what was going on.
 
  +The SSE ending credits were kind of cool, you learn the meaning of the SSBB main theme song. 
 Adds a little meaning to the other game modes.
  -In general, fighting games don't really have much of a story. Especially not in vs modes.
  
 
  Gameplay 7.5/10
  +Huge cast of characters
  +Lots of different levels
  +Tons of items and weapons
  +Massive array of game modes
  +/-Huge list of collectables and 
 unlockables. It will keep you playing for a while, however it can get monotonous doing things over 
 and over to get something so small like a useless trophy.
  +/-This is a multiplayer game. Which is great if you have people to play with. But if you're like 
 me and all alone... my wife doesn't like fighting games... then this game will get repetitive quickly.
 
  -Online modes really don't have that much flair. It feels like you're simply playing the computer.
 
  -Extremely repetitive. Sure there are lots of different game modes, but they're all generally 
 the same... fighting, fighting and more fighting. Eh... what did you expect from a fighting game?
 
  -Very difficult to master and play competitively. You have to practice and repeat moves over and 
 over again until its second nature to you. I don't like repetition. Also, this prevents casuals 
 from playing and enjoying it. I've had friends over to play it, but because they're not practicing 
 it on a regular basis, they were not competitive and didn't enjoy it. Its not a game where anybody 
 can pick up a controller and brawl.
  -Honestly, I don't think there is a whole lot of strategy to this game. Once you play your character 
 over and over again you get good at performing their moves, but that's about it.
  -There are several things in this game that could have been polished a little bit more. See below 
 bullets for specifics.
  -online modes could have been better. Leader boards or tournaments could've added a lot. They already 
 implemented tournaments in group brawl, why not for wifi? Having some kind of overall goal would 
 really have been nice.
  -Stickers were a huge waste. They're only useful in SSE (I never even needed the stickers to complete 
 SSE anyways) . If you were allowed to use stickers in other modes, like wifi, it could have really 
 opened up the doors to customization and strategy.
  
  Controls 8.5/10
  +Customizable controls!
  +/-lots of different controller schemes, mote/chuk or gc or mote or 
 classic... Its nice having the variety, but does anybody ever play with just mote or classic? seems 
 like a waste...
  +/-This game is intense. The fast paced gameplay can be fun and adrenaline pumping, but it also 
 means you need a huge about of coordination to play competitively.
  -I felt like some of the moves were a little unresponsive. I'd be trying to perform a simple forward 
 special and it wouldn't do it. Perhaps that was due to my lack of ability. But if this game requires 
 you to be so extremely skilled, then this game isn't for everyone.
  
  
  Sound 9.5/10
  +Huge library of sound tracks
  +High def surround sound
  +Remakes of classic songs with orchestra 
 in high quality sound were sweet.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  +Without a doubt probably the best graphics ever on the wii.
  
  Fun 8.5/10
  This game is 
 pretty fun. I really enjoyed playing the characters and SSE. But after I beat SSE, unlocked all 
 the characters and levels... this game got old real quick. I guess if I had someone to play with 
 it would have made it more enjoyable. I also felt the game required too much of a commitment to 
 learn the moves and such, I personally don't like repetition.
  
  *************
  Overall 8.5/10
  *************
  
  I'm sure some of ya'll SSBB fanboys will flip out that I 
 gave the game an 8.5. Something like "ZOMG YOU IDIOT, SSBB IS THE BEST GAME EVER!!!!11!!1!" I stand 
 by my 8.5 rating, honestly 8.5 is pretty good compared to a lot of other games. I really did enjoy 
 my time playing SSBB. But ultimately I felt the game was too difficult for the casual player and 
 too repetitive to deserve a higher grade.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mntnbkr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  First let me start with the fact that this is my first time playing any Super Smash Brothers game. 
 I never understood the reasoning behind it and the fact that the player does everything with just 
 three buttons didn't sound too deep to me. Boy was I wrong.
  
  Online play -- On launch day successfully connecting to someone else online was impossible at least 
 for me. I managed to connect the other day just to get my feet wet and although there was a 3-4 
 minutes wait, after we connected there was no lag what-so-ever. Go figure. 
  Overall play -- Like I mentioned before, for a fighting game that only has three buttons this is 
 a pretty deep game. There is something for whatever mood you are in. If you want a basic platformer, 
 this game has it. If you want fighting, this game has it. It you want multiple mini-games, this 
 game has it. If you want un-lockables and achievements such as trophies and collectables then this 
 game has it. 
  Replayability -- With online play and plenty of trophies to unlock there are plenty of reasons 
 to play this game over and over again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mario564
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  From the 35 characters on the game, anyone can pick up one of the four controlers and have a fun 
 time with family and friends! Even if your not battling anyone, there is so many other things like 
 events, mini-games, and story mode. EVERYTHING is co-op!!!!
  Anyone from anywhere can set button configuration for what their hands want to press. Also, if you 
 don't want to learn new buttons, the Game Cube controller has the same buttons as Melee. The classic 
 controller makes a classic feel to game play. The wii remote and nunchuck makes a new navigation 
 feel, but takes time to get used to. Finally, the wii remote on it's side (in my opinion) is the easiest 
 way to control.
  Amazing amount of characters and stages. The story is well put together, and is the right difficulty, and 
 if you start the story, you need to finish it. It's the best way to get characters. Every stage has 
 stickers that you add to a certain character to boost a status in story mode. Each stage is unique, and 
 you have stages from Melee (the previous Smash Bros.) . The Challenges give hints on how to unlock 
  and stickers.
  In the Vault, there are Master Pieces that are classic games like Zelda Ocarina of Time, Super Mario 
 Bros., and Kid Icarus. But there are plenty more, with a time limit. It's fun to see how far you can 
 go before it ends.
  Another Vault option is Stage Builder. You can create a stages music from owned CDs, parts, and background. All 
 it takes to make a stage is 10-20 minutes to make one stage. After making the stage, you can Brawl 
 with friends on it!
  Wi-Fi is fun, even if your just a spectator, you can bet up to 100 coins on a team or player. If 
 you want to get updates on replays and stages, but are temporary, so the next day you go on Wi-Fi, 
 it's gone. You receive it no matter what.
  The All-Star mode is a Brawl aganst all the 35 characters. Classic mode is a fight between random 
 characters. Boss Battle is fun, the first few random bosses are easy, than get harder. Home-Run Contest 
 is now co-op, and easier to hit farther. Multi-Man Brawl is a fight against the original sprites 
 of a few characters. Target Smash is a extra challenge that isn't to fun.
  Now, you can take pictures on the pause menu, on a normal brawl.
  Overall, this is one game that 
 Nintendo put 110 percent on this on game!!! If this game is how it is in the next Smash Bros., it 
 would be the best game ever!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dagamemonkey
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 4, 2008 4:00 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is a great addition to the somewhat anorexic Wii library, but it is certainly 
 not without its problems. Despite the problems Brawl is overall a bittersweet experience.
  
  Gameplay in Brawl is identical to its predecessors in nearly every way. Pick a character, pick 
 a stage, and try to smash them into oblivion. That's the general SSB format of gameplay, and it 
 hasn't changed in the slightest. However, there are some cool and some not-so-cool new selections 
 for each aspect I just pointed out. Firstly, there are a lot of new characters that grace the marquee 
 of the famous Nintendo slug fest franchise. Some of the new characters include Captain Olimar of 
 Pikmin, Snake from Metal Gear, Ike from Fire Emblem, Star Wolf from Star Fox, Diddy Kong from Donkey 
 Kong, Pit from Kid Icarus, R. O. B. from Star Fox, Toon Link from Wind Waker, oddly enough the Sega 
 hedgehog Sonic, and a few others I didn't mention. Some characters were removed from Melee such 
 as Roy of Fire Emblem and Young Link of Zelda, most likely because there would have been three 
 choosable Links and three similar choosable sword-users. However, on the other side of that they 
 decided to retain some characters whose only purpose is to be beaten up like Jiggleypuff and Mr. 
 Game & Watch. Another staple of the SSB games is the ability to alter options to enhance or intensify 
 gameplay such as giant melee, tiny melee, and a whole hoarde of new options. Before matches you 
 can change the gravity, what items characters have on their heads, etc. The game also features 
 many new things to unlock and do, including the create-a-stage mode which is pretty cool, and things 
 I'm not going to even delve into any of it because there's so much stuff. The game sports a ton 
 of new stages from various series such as Sonic and Metal Gear, and there are also many of the 
 older stages like the Great Fox and my favorite Hyrule Temple. These classic stages have been revamped 
 so they look better and play better as well. The new stages are a lot of fun whether you are fighting 
 on a Mario Kart race track or on Meta Knight's vessel the Halbred. Control mapping is identical 
 to Melee in just about every way and veterans or even casual players will have little trouble adapting 
 to it. However, the new "final smash" attack is very cool because every character has a final smash, 
 but they need to fight for it. This little multicolored sphere appears at random and floats around 
 the stage and the character who smashes it is empowered to perform his/her final smash. These moves 
 are often very powerful and may send one or all the players of the screen, but some final smashes 
 put the opponents to sleep for long periods of time. Often the final smash will come from that 
 character's universe like Sonic going Super Sonic or Fox using a Landmaster tank. The actual gameplay 
 is much slower than Melee but surprisingly it is much smoother. Though if you are used to Melee 
 then the slower pace of Brawl might be a tad difficult to adjust to. The maingame is a mode called 
 Subspace Emissary and not only is it really long, but it is also cooperative. Yes, the maingame 
 in Brawl is cooperative with a friend, but unfortunately here is where one of the big issues with 
 Brawl comes in for me. The story is loosely good vs. evil and it's actually pretty cool, but it's 
 pretty confusing. After this the maingame takes a sudden turn for the worse because of one of two 
 things: serious button mashing. Now SSB has always been kind of a button masher type of game, but 
 Brawl amps it up to a point of absolute absurdity. The way the story works is there's a cutscene, 
 you pick your character (this is a part of another issue I'll address later) , and then you fight 
 and fight to a door to finish the stage. This in itself isn't a bad concept, but when you are forced 
 to fight a ton of enemies over and over again playing Subspace Emissary becomes tedious work rather 
 than enjoyment. Now there are usually a few seconds of quiet, but it never lasts. There are always 
 enemies and always fighting to be done. The other big issue for me with Subspace Emissary is the 
 fact you are forced to switch characters a couple to several times each stage. It may just be me, 
 but I'd like to be at my best as Link, and if I can't then I have to adapt to another character. 
 This I do not mind, although I don't want to adapt to every other stage because using a character 
 I'm not good with makes me less effective, and honestly it makes Subspace Emissary much less enjoyable. 
 The thing is if I switch from say, a quick character like Sonic to a heavy character like Donkey 
 Kong, my whole battle method is thrown out of whack. That was an example of two extremes and I'm 
 not sure that happens, but one can apply it to oneself accordingly. For me it's Link, a ranged 
 character, and maybe Captain Falcon, a mostly close combat character. I'm going to make this statement 
 bluntly to sum up: I don't like Subspace Emissary. Had this mode been a little less of an extreme 
 button-masher or perhaps a change made in the rapid character switches, then my opinion would be 
 different. Overall Brawl's gameplay is solid and utterly enjoyable with the outstanding exception 
 of Subspace Emissary, and had it been changed in some significant ways then gameplay would have 
 been a masterful piece of work.
  
  Graphics in Brawl are done enormously well even down to some of the last details. Character models 
 are one of the outstanding achievements in Brawl, and each one of them looks wonderful. They look 
 just like they would look in their respective universes with the exception of Twilight Princess 
 Link and Toon Link from Wind Waker because of the different graphics engines each used. Aside from 
 that exception all the characters are rendered wonderfully and beautifully. And speaking of the 
 characters, the final smashes I saw were next to amazing. Link has this super arrow that freezes 
 the opponent in a large Triforce while he bashes them at an incredible speed. Then he winds up 
 and gives the victim one last smash which usually sends them over the edge. Another very cool final 
 smash is that one of Snake from Metal Gear. He actually hangs from a helicopter on the forefront 
 of the screen with a grenade launcher and pummels other players. Like I said each final smash is 
 different with the exception of a few like with those from the Zelda universe, and aside from that 
 each has their own unique effect on the battlefield. Stages are done very well for their size and 
 amount of things going on all around. Sometimes you'll have the simple little stages, and often 
 you'll have the large and epic stages that actually move around the sky. Subspace Emissary contains 
 all of the cutscenes which are very well done. They are colored very richly and filled with all 
 of your favorite Nintendo (and Sega) characters. Stages in Subspace Emissary are often long and 
 chock-full of enemies of all sorts from ugly puppets to dive-bombing birds. Sometimes the stage 
 will be a moving stage in which you must keep moving lest you die, and these stages can be fun 
 if you stay on top of things. Levels here are filled with pits, platforms, ladders, elevators, 
 and doors. Things you didn't ever think you'd see appear in a SSB game appear, but they work to 
 its advantage. The usage of these items make the game better overall rather than just using platforms. 
 I mentioned earlier some older levels from Melee have been retained and reworked and look great 
 if not better on the Wii. All in all graphics in Brawl are superb and carry a nostalgic quality 
 to them because it looks a lot like Melee.
  
  Brawl's sound really isn't much different from Melee, but little tweaks here and there really improved 
 on it. Some tweaks include the final smashes, other tweaks would be some new weapons such as Twilight 
 Princess Link's new boomerang. The game's create-a-stage allows you to choose a song to play during 
 its use like tunes from about every imaginable source. Songs like Saria's Song from The Legend 
 of Zelda: Ocarina of Time even appear. You can even listen to all kinds of tunes by surfing Brawl's 
 vast vault of options. Aside from tunes in the game there's surprisingly little voice acting, and 
 this is unfortunate because there are a ton of cinematics featuring tons of characters. There really 
 could have been some voice work rather than the periodic little chuckle or standard "huh" or "oh". 
 The cinematics are great, sure, but with some voice work it could have been superb. Sound in-game 
 remains largely unchanged, and the newly added cinematics needed the voice work. Overall sound 
 is great.
  
  Brawl has absolutely wonderful value if you can look past the problems with Subspace Emissary and 
 the lack of voices. It's got loads of special options, loads of old and new stages, the ability 
 to create loads of custom stages, loads of old and new characters, loads of cool features, and 
 loads of unlockable content. Brawl is much like Melee in many ways, but that shouldn't stop anyone 
 from buying it unless they have no Wii to use it on. The thing about SSB is the game's longevity; 
 it's incredible staying power for years to come until the next one is released and even beyond. 
 Brawl's a great game, but there are some glaring issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeonNinja
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2008 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is the "it" game to own for the Wii. In essence, the ultimate party game, 
 bringing together simple gameplay that's deeper than it seems in a 2D fighter with some very basic 
 platforming. Oh yeah, and the game is basically the combination of every single Nintendo game ever 
 released. There are only two ways to hate Super Smash Bros. Brawl, the first is to be a hater of 
 all things Nintendo and the second is to be a hater of all things popular. For one, Super Smash 
 Bros. is the type of game made for the Nintendo fan in all of us, and if you aren't a fan of some 
 sort then this game isn't really for you.
  
  Aside from being a Nintendo fanboy's literal wet dream come true, (Mario and Link team up to stop 
 evil!? YES!) the game still manages to perfectly walk the line between being hardcore and casual. 
 Nintendo fans will adore all the zany Nintendo moments and the quirky levels based on Elektroplankton 
 and Pictochat while casual gamers may not know what those are, they're guaranteed to enjoy the 
 non-stop fighting with three of their closest friends.
  
  One of the slickest features in Brawl is the ability to decide how to control the game. There are 
 four methods, one is the Wii remote and nunchuk combo, the other is to hold the Wii remote horizontally 
 like a regular controller, the third is to use the classic controller, while the fourth is to use 
 the GameCube controller. I personally prefer the familiarity of the GameCube controller, that and 
 it doesn't require a battery to use.
  
  Once you've got your controller method down, it's time to select a mode of play. Super Smash Bros. 
 Brawl is packed with stuff to do. Whether it's clearing out the game's single-player mode The Subspace 
 Emissary, which can also be done with a co-op partner, as well as the dozens of matches in Event 
 Mode, there's also just flat out brawling. Whether it's a special brawl, or a basic fight set at 
 two minutes. Super Smash Bros. Brawl literally packs it all in.
  
  The Subspace Emissary is the newest addition to the Smash Bros. formula. It isn't exactly the most 
 compelling single player out there, sure, it's an adventure, but it's definitely no Twilight Princess. 
 You'll have to go through platforming levels where enemies must be defeated by your attacks to 
 reach the end goal. There are even boss battles in this mode, which is a first for the series. 
 None of these additions are particularly amazing, they're just sort of there, but it's when you 
 realize that yes, Samus just saved Pikachu and now they're teamed up and ready to wreck havoc. 
 Yes, Solid Snake is beating up bad guys with a Pokemon. There's so much wrong in the world and 
 it's these amazing teams of heroes that are out to set it straight and stop the evil. There are 
 some major plot developments for a Super Smash Bros. title in Brawl. And yes, Sonic's his name 
 and speed's his game!
  
  The Event Mode provides so many fun, zany challenges for the player to accomplish all while reaching 
 the ultimate showdown in the final event. The challenges can be great fun, but that's also because 
 of how the ideas for them are so well implemented.
  
  However, the Subspace Emissary and Event Mode won't be the main reasons why most people play Super 
 Smash Bros. Brawl. It's fun for the zany Nintendo moments of the past twenty something years being 
 brought into 2008, but it's also worth noting that Super Smash Bros. Brawl is way more fun when 
 played with others. Watch Mario, Sonic, Jigglypuff and Zelda duke it out on the Metal Gear level 
 is way more fun when your friends are around you screaming and screeching. This also brings up 
 the issue of online play for Super Smash Bros. Personally, I feel it's absolutely useless and unnecessary. 
 Yes, it's functional, but it fails to capture the feeling of having someone sitting next to you, 
 jumping up and down and shoving one another in order to get to a certain item first. So, yes, online 
 play technically works, but it's an absolutely unnecessary addition that fails to capture what 
 makes Smash Bros. so awesome.
  
  Brawl also includes a level creator. Custom stages to fight on are a reality, and it genuinely 
 feels good to watch the levels come to life, creating mass hysteria and chaos for opponents unfamiliar 
 with the levels.
  
  But even then, Brawl doesn't stop. I simply can't think of any other game that offers nearly as 
 many unlockable. From the Super Smash Bros. Melee levels, to old musical tracks, trophies, and 
 even more parts for creating more levels. Brawl takes fanservice to new highs.
  
  The graphics and sound in the game, though better than they were in 2001 when Melee rolled around, 
 but not enough so to make a significant difference. The characters are crisper but the difference 
 is barely noticeable. Of course, the artistry in the game is absolutely beautiful and top notch. 
 Brawl is a coming together of everything Nintendo and so it presents beautiful and varied graphics, 
 from fighting on The Bridge of Eldin from Twilight Princess, to Isle Delfino from Super Mario Sunshine. 
 About the only thing missing is a Paper Mario character and level from that series.
  
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is a culmination of all things Nintendo, sure, Sonic and Snake make cameos 
 and have levels as well, but in the end, with over thirty combatants from the Nintendo Universe, 
 from Captain Olimar to Cel-shaded Link and Lucario. Super Smash Bros. Brawl is a game made for 
 the Nintendo fans. Sure, party gamers will enjoy it plenty as well, and Brawl is best played in 
 a party setting with a huge group of others willing to alternate. For people who don't have an 
 obsession with Nintendo, Brawl is nothing more than a diversion that they'll never properly experience. 
 But Brawl was made for the Nintendo fans and in that regard it is an absolute must-buy, no questions 
 asked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pascalio95
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  this game is literally the best game i have ever played. since the wii came out, i had a lot of 
 trouble trying the find one but i finall found one and got this game. i have a few other games, 
 but this ones my favorite.
  this is a great multiplayer game and is awesome for parties. There are lots of characters, lots 
 of stages, and can be online, which is y this game is so diverse. i try to play this game everyday 
 because its so addicting. im still trying to unlock all the character, which is one reason y this 
 game is so fun. in my opinion, this game is even better than ssbb melee. i like the online play 
 especailly, because u get to play with other ppl all over the world. i play online all the time 
 and i never get tired of it. like i said, ive played many, many games in my life and this is my 
 all time favorite. this game is the best game ever. dont u agree with me? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t_richu
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Melee was a really fun game, but it isn't as good as Brawl! Brawl has 2-player for almost everything, 
 even target test and the home run contest! Brawl also has a awesome adventure storyline, too. But 
 I don't want to spoil it for you. Also you have a large variety of characters and stages. And to 
 add to the loads of stages, you can make your own! And you keep some of your videos. But at some 
 times, you miss stuff on melee, like Roy or Pichu. Or some of their moves, like Ness's PK flash. 
 The range is a TON smaller on this game, and it's weaker. I mean, on this game, the person that 
 made this is being selfish. He made the Kirby series, and what he ended up doing was make all the 
 old characters WORSE and Kirby a LOT better. I mean, just look at Jigglypuff! He/she has been SEVERELY 
 weakened. EVERYTHING became worse, except his/her roll. And the only thing that got better their 
 was that she could recover after flying of the edge using roll. So now you know. About both Brawl 
 and Jigglypuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pikazilla
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  SSBB is the best game for the wii and will remain the best nintendo game until the release of its 
 sequel.
  
  
  I created my own tier list from best to worst.
  
  Sonic
  Pikachu
  Captain Olimar
  Pokemon Trainer
  Ike
  Bowser
  Meta Knight
  Lucario
  Dedede
  Fox
 
  Ganon
  Snake
  Rob
  Purin
  Falco
  Captain Falcon
  Luigi
  Marth
  Samus
  Kirby
  Sheik
  Ice Climbers
  Yoshi
  Peach
  DK
  Mr Game & Watch
  Zamus
  Wolf
  Mario
 
  Zelda
  Link
  Toon Link
  Diddy Kong
  Wario
  Pit
  Ness
  Lucus
  
  
  Finally, after many years, Meta Knight and Dedede join up with Kirby in Brawl. What took you so 
 long? Meta Knight is cool and Dedede owns all with his hammer.
  
  I never heard of Lucas, but now I know how much he sucks. ONE NESS IS ENOUGH, we don't need unpopular, 
 low tier characters in Brawl.
  
  Zamus got BACK. She es HOT. Enough said.
  
  HOLY CRAP!!! SONIC!!! With his fast feet outrunning everyone on the stage, Sonic will finally fight 
 Mario in the classic crossover, and possible win. SONIC RULES!!!!
  
  Pikmin & Olimar, that was the biggest surprise, even bigger than Sonic. Pikmin had only two games, 
 but apparently, since they were hits, Olimar became a Newcomer. I like Pikmin games a lot and Olimar 
 is very useful in Brawl.
  
  I did want Wario in brawl, but he has disappointing moves.
  
  I do like Lucario replacing Mewtwo and how Mewtwo and Pichu are trophies.
  
  Pokemon trainer, 
 Ash Ketchum, has three pokemon! Screw Squirtle, Ivysaur and Charizard rule! Their attacks make 
 good combos.
  
  
  Characters I wanted in Brawl
  
  Krystal
  Tails Prower
  Knuckles
  Shadow the Hedgehog
  Deoxys
  Metal Sonic
  
  
  Obviously, Nintendo hates 3rd 
 part characters but was forced to let Sonic and Snake in due to popular demand. They should have 
 done more for them, for example, more than one fighter from each universe. Star Fox has 3 characters, 
 all with the same moves, and Sonic only has one, Sonic himself. Nintendo, please don't tell me 
 it was because of the budget.
  
  Mario obviously gets a lot of attention in general, but they go overboard in brawl. Mario is the 
 only character you can use in a stage builder demo, he's in most of the final smash trophies and 
 has the most stages. WE GET IT! Nintendo likes Mario, but we had enough! Also, since Mario is lower 
 tier due to his down B, it makes playing as him harder to do.
  
  Possibly the only thing I hate about brawl was those delays, but with all these new characters, 
 it was worth the wait. I also wanted a Dawn or Leaf costume for the pokemon trainer, but don't 
 tell my why I do
  
  
  Bosses
  
  Petey Pirahna from Mario games. This guy is one of the most famous bosses in Mario games even if 
 he didn't appear until Mario Sunshine. However, he has a different fighting style in SSBB. He captures 
 Peach and Zelda in metal cages (possibly so he can rape them later) and attacks his enemies with 
 these cages, not caring about how the princesses get thrashed around in them. He's really easy, 
 just attack one of the cages and run away from his attacks. He only has two attacks, a jump that 
 looks like Dedede's up B and when he slams one of the cages. I notice that he never pukes in SSBB, 
 maybe he doesn't take ipecac anymore.
  
  Ridley/Meta Ridley from Metroid games. This dragon/pterodactyl thing is actually the leader of 
 space pirates and his intelligence is similar to that of a human, despite his crazy attitude. Ridley 
 defends a Subspace factory and tries to kill Samus by scrapping her suit off with a metal wall 
 while flying at 500mph, but Pikachu kicked his ass with a thunder attack. The first battle has 
 him using his super speed and flying abilities to overwhelm the player. However, Ridley's attacks 
 can be avoided with good timing.
  
  Meta Ridley has a different fighting style. Since the only platform in the fight is the Falcon 
 Flyer, Meta Ridley will try to shake it or beat it up. Any uncareful players will instantly die. 
 Meta Ridley also shoots fireballs from his mouth. His quick speed and instant ko attacks are annoying, 
 but in the subspace mode, you only have 2 minutes before you die (you're in a factory that is self 
 destructing so get the hell out of there!) and Meta Ridley will sometimes hover near the edge 
 of the screen, but eventually, you can learn how to defeat him with enough practice.
  
  Rayquaza from Pokemon games. Rayquaza appears in 3rd generation games as the king of the sky and 
 that hippie that stopped the fighting between Kyogre and Groundon (hey man, why can't we be friends?) . 
 Rayquaza is the longest legendary pokemon and is really powerful. In SSBB, Raquaza hates people 
 entering his territory (similar to what happened in Destiny Deoxys) and attacks Diddykong and Fox. 
 Rayquaza uses Thunder, Fly, Dig, ExtremeSpeed, Dragon Pulse, Roar, Glare and Iron tail. Rayquaza 
 is powerful and fast, but predictable. Find out how he uses his moves and counter or evade them.
 
  
  Porky Minch from Earthbound games (Japan only) . Since no one knows about him in America, here's 
 his bio. Porky was a kid with Pk powers, but he was also a fat selfish bastard. He decided to create 
 his own city, which is somehow, floating in the sky Porky tried to become even more powerful by 
 time traveling, but since he couldn't bring his machine with him while he time traveled, he was 
 pretty much screwed. Eventually, after about 10,000 years, he returns to the normal timeline, even 
 though he should have killed Lucas while he was a baby so he wouldn't fight him today. I don't 
 know how he was able to be 10,000 years old without dying from old age, but it is obvious that 
 Porky is too weak to fight on his own. His army created a spider bed robot thing that is super 
 sweet, why don't I have one? In SSBB, Porky puts his spider robot inside a statue of himself. This 
 statue has 100,000,000 hp in his videogames. It doesn't matter what video game you play, 100 million 
 hp is a lot. Yet Ness somehow is able to destroy it with just one Pk Flash... yeah In the Spider 
 Bed Machine, Porky is able to ram into the player, shoot tiny Porky androids that self destruct, 
 and shoot two different lasers from his robot. He is one of the hardest bosses since touching him 
 can hurt you. Try not to kill yourself.
  
  Duon is a new character created for SSBB. After Solid Snake kicked the Mr Game and Watches' asses, 
 they transformed into Duon, a two headed knight robot thing He moves around on two wheels, which 
 is weird. He can easily trip on a banana peel and scream 'help, I have fallen and I can't get up'. 
 The blue side uses swords while the pink side uses blasters. Avoid their attacks isn't easy for 
 slow character and Duon is stronger than he looks, even if being 20ft tall make him look very strong.
 
  
  Galleom is another SSBB only character. You need to fight him twice in the subspace mode. He reminds 
 everyone of the Transformers robots like Optimus Prime cause Galleom can transform into a tank. 
 Galleom uses his super strength and rockets to fight. He is powerful, but is easy to dodge.
  
  Tabuu is yet another SSBB only character, but he's the main boss. Tabuu looks like Tron, but 
 he is a real badass dude. In the subspace mode, you use 6 different characters, but some players 
 might need even more than that. Tabuu teleports across the stage and uses about 15 different attacks. 
 Most of his attacks are fast and deadly. His main attack, the Off Waves, are three shockwaves that 
 cover the entire stage. One hit will almost always kill you're guys. It's almost impossible to 
 avoid all three of the blasts, so you need to kill Tabuu asap.
  
  
  Last words about brawl, Sonic needed a bigger appearance in the Subspace mode. Pikachu is soooooo 
 lucky, he hangs out with Zamus... enough said. Olimar is very unlucky, he's hanging with Captain 
 Falcon, who's trying to kill his pikmin with a FALCON PUNCH!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CallofDuty4Vet
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  I would of played it more but it just came out so you can't really play it more than that unless 
 you play none stop but if you like fighting games and managed to get your hands on the Wii it is 
 a definite buy if people try to talk you out of it dont listen to them. Very fun and love that 
 it actually has a story that last more than 5 minutes im on the final level and i clocked in at 
 almost 7 hours but that final level is so freakin hard but i learned the easy way to get characters 
 go to special brawl, stamina, flower on head, and then set their stamina to 1 and as soon as the 
 match begins they instantly die. Oh yeah the BEST GAME EVER AND IVE PLAYED SOME GOOD GAMES.
  
  thanks for giving me your time
  
  CallofDuty4Vet is out and plz add me to your friends 
 when you get it on 
  WIFI my friend code is 3909-7178-4872 and my name is: Mr. D
  with no space so it should be four spots on it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jakanadin
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2008 4:28 am PT
Review:  If you are a fan of Nintendo, you will like this game. If you are a fan of the Super Smash Bros. 
 Series, you will love this game. If you love fighting games, you will LOVE Super Smash Bros. Brawl! 
 It's rank alone should tell you it is one of the best games out so far! It is the ultimate multiplayer 
 fighting game, with online! And the Adventure mode being co-op makes it two times the fun. I found 
 it to be THE game for almost anyone to get, because there are almost no flaws at all with it. The 
 only flaw I found so far, is the fact that they took away the old way of special melees (or Brawls 
 in this case..) . I really liked it because it showed you what you could do and you didn't have 
 to customize it. I am not much a fan of customizing, but others are so it is cool with me. One 
 of the more better parts if not the best of the game, is the stage creator!!! It is soooo fun. 
 I have created many levels on it and here is the name and description of one so you can build it 
 too.. Ultimate Ladders: An all ladders match with 4 platforms at the very top. Built on the large 
 stage builder, with the sky background, to make it look impossibly high up, this is one for just 
 you and your friends, because the cpu's have a hard time moving around, since there is not much 
 for them to do.. I will try my best to show what it looks like below, and that will be the end 
 of my review! So thanks for reading! Note: The very bottom ladder is at the very bottom of the 
 stage, so it is much bigger than this!
  
  
  ULTIMATE LADDERLAND:
  _ _ _ _
  H H H H H H
  H H H H H 
  H H H H H H
  H H H H H
  H H H H H H
  H H H H H
  H H H H H 
 H
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReviewKing
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Brawl is one, no, THE best Super Smash Bros. game yet, and I'll tell you why its the best.
  
  Adventure Mode: This mode allows you to play a cinematic adventure with 1-2 players and you 
 fight these guys who came from Subspace, and you are trying to stop them from destroying the world. 
 The leader of all this is Ganondorf (Secret Character) and the Ancient Minister (Secretly R. O. B, 
 another secret character) .
  
  Classic and All-Star: If you like getting trophies, these modes are for you. First off, All-Star 
 is only unlocked after you get all the characters. Anyways, on classic, beat the simple tasks they 
 give, then you face either Master Hand or Crazy Hand and Master Hand (Depends on difficulty and 
 timing) . On All-Star, you face ALL the characters in the game (Including the secret characters) 
 and you fight it out till you get to Olimar, if you are only one person, you fight one, but if 
 you are doing Co-op, you face two.
  
  Stadium: This place is the best place to play mini-games. There is Target Practice, Home-run Contest, 
 Multi-man Brawl, and Boss Battles (After adventure mode) . They are all fun and I think people should 
 try ALL of them.
  
  Well, this was my single player review, if you liked this review, please click the thumbs-up button. 
 Thank you for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sneasel59
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I'll tell you now that if you absolutely hate nintendo turn away and delete this from your history.
 
  
  For Nintendo fans hold your head up high and bask in this perfect game. When I describe something 
 as perfect I mean I could not find anything wrong with the game. 
  
  The Characters and stages are as brilliant as ever. If you've played sone of the previous super 
 smashs' before you know that every one has their own characters as I would bluntly put it as. Mine 
 would be Samus. I find Olimar exetremly crappy but one of my friend kicked my ass with him. The 
 level designs are stunning. The characters are much more detailed. The camera option and stage 
 builder are both fun. The way that you unlock characters is fun and easy (however i still didn't 
 get toon link and wolf) .
  
  All in all if you have a wii go out with some cash and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendo-naut
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  First off, I'm a SSB fan. I LOVE the SSB series. I grew up with the SSB series. This game will 
 go down in history as one of the greatest games of all time, I'm sure. Don't believe ANYONE who 
 says this game (or series for that matter) is stupid. The game sports a fair amount to do single-player-wise. 
 Just not as much as i would like. THAT is what took away the .5 points. Now... The Subspace Emissary 
 (single-player adventure) is very entertaining. The cut scenes are beautiful and for a game like 
 this the plot is very deep and interesting. There are various mini-games and such, as well as a 
 challenges screen. This screen works much like the checklist in Kirby's Air Ride (LOVE that game!) . 
 Do certain tasks, get trophies, stages, stickers... Speaking of which, the has TONS to collect. 
 Hundreds of trophies and stickers, and (my personal favorite) CD's. Game music. I love it. SSBB 
 has some of the best game music I've heard in a while. Remixed tunes of old give undeniable charm 
 to the game. Now we get to MULTI-PLAYER. SSB is traditionally a multiplayer game. 4 people can 
 Brawl at a time. With near endless ways to play this TRULY the best multiplayer console game EVER. 
 And with internet play... Whoa... BUY IT!!! BUY IT NOW!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhantomPhoot
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  BRAWL. The name alone, riding beneath the imposing Super Smash Bros. logo, is enough to tell people 
 what this game is all about. Smashing and brawling. This game had a lot to live up to, seeing as 
 the previous installment of Smash Bros. was the only game every Gamecube owner actually owned. 
 How could the developers change a winning formula and maintain its playability? By leaving the 
 basic combat intact and piling on new features.
  
  GAMEPLAY- Have you played Super Smash Bros. Melee? If so, then you'll instantly be able to transfer 
 your skillz over to this game. Brawl is fully compatible with and GCN controller, making veterans 
 of Melee across the world smile. The other control options are the Wii Remote + Nunchuck, Wii Remote 
 (tilted sideways) and the classic controller. Many will find the Wii Remote + Nunchuck playable 
 yet difficult to master, while the Wii remote tilted sideways is by far the most challenging method 
 of play. I prefer the GCN and the classic controller. 
  The game offers a pretty decent range of items. Old favorites such as the Pokeballs, Hammer, Fire 
 Flower, and Beam sword return. New items, such as Assist Trophies (which summon random characters 
 from gaming history the same way Pokemon are used) and the elusive Dragoon (collect all three parts, 
 aim, fire, instant KO) add a new depth of play. The most important new item, however, is the Smash 
 Ball. With it, players scramble toward the floating ball, hitting it until it bursts. The player 
 who last hit it will glow. A simple press of the B-button will unleash hell onto your opponents. 
 Testing out each character's Final Smash is fun, and doesn't take away from the main smashing action.
 
  The character selection is balanced. I have never seen a more balanced fighter, and that's how 
 it should be. Smash Bros. has always been about people picking their best character and having 
 fair shots at ringing each other off of the stage. From heavy hitters like King Dedede and Bowser, 
 to lightweight fighters like Kirby and Fox, everybody can find their own niche in the smash bros. 
 world without feeling like one character has an obvious advantage over another. It's all about 
 pure skill.
  
  PLAYABILITY- Anyone can literally pick up a controller, practice for a bit, and then get used to 
 the controls enough to have a reasonably fun fight with friends, making this a party game for the 
 ages. There are so many modes in the game, and it's so easily organized, that it'll literally take 
 months to unlock it all.
  The first thing you'll notice is the menu. Click on the GROUP feature and you'll access the more 
 familiar features of Smash Bros. You have the standard Brawl, which is basically the Melee feature 
 from the previous game. There you, computers, and other players can smash their way through various 
 stages. Just like good old times, right? There's a rules feature that lets you edit the rules of 
 play before you actually play the game. Nifty for the gaming dictators who believe player one is 
 the supreme ruler of regulations, like me ;3. Tournament mode is back, with the same exact features 
 as before (set names, pick characters, watch cpu's, etc.) . Special Brawl is better than ever, mainly 
 because now you add and take off any feature you want. Not you can have the giant, light, bunny, 
 sudden death you've always wanted!
  Click on the SOLO feature and you wont be disappointed. Adventure mode is back, but this time it's 
 massive. Instead of being as long as Classic mode but with a few side-scrolling stages, this mode 
 is an entire game within a game, complete with original enemies, insane boss battles, character 
 customization, and a full storyline that will take approximately 10 hours to complete. Even then, 
 there's still a plethora of items to collect. The replay value is a bit low, due to the abundance 
 of other features, but it's a satisfying and fun addition to the smash bros. universe. Classic 
 mode returns, and it's, well. Classic. You fight enemies in semi-random order and in the end fight 
 Master hand (with the possible addition of his spastic sibling, Crazy Hand) . The Stadium is where 
 all of the mini-games take place. Target practice went from unique stages for each character to 
 different levels of practice in which each character can complete. The home-run contest is less 
 difficult to due, thanks to a shield that protects the sandbag from unnecessarily flying off of 
 the field. It does break, however, so you'll have to plan your actions in order to really take 
 advantage of it. The multi-man brawl is basically the same as it's been in the past. Instead of 
 wire-frames, there are different colored fighters that come in all shapes and sizes to KO, adding 
 variety. Oh yes, there are 50 event matches to test your skillz.
  Click on the Nintendo Wi-Fi feature and you'll access the game's only real flaw, although it is 
 easily overlooked. The With Anyone feature of Brawl is very limited for three reasons: 1.) You 
 can only play two-minute Brawls with items and 2.) you can't see anyone's screennames and 3.) the 
 amount of lag for bad connections. It's a bit difficult to connect with players on the get-go, 
 but once you do your off. (contacting Nintendo tech-support is alright, they're used to it.) The 
 With Friends feature is, however, the online's saving grace. Although you must use the dreaded 
 Friend Codes system, it's not all bad. Sure you can't communicate with the people you have, and 
 you can't use custom stages, but you can play regular matches with custom rules and even tag-team 
 with multi-man melee and the home-run challenge.
  Next, I'll discuss the Vault feature. There you can collect and view all of the collectibles you've 
 obtained through all of your hours of dedication. You can view your photos and replays, and even 
 send them to friends. You can view your challenges and even preview what you need to do in order 
 to unlock certain trophies, stickers, songs, and stages. You can also view and arrange your sticker 
 and trophy collection and take snapshots of it. It will take a lifetime of gaming to collect the 
 entire collection, since there are probably thousands of trophies to unlock. Masterpieces are basically 
 timed demos of old games you can buy on the VC.
  
  MUSIC- This is the best videogame music you will ever hear. Why am I saying that? Because it encompasses 
 every genre of game music and features the greatest videogame composers of all time. It features 
 the greatest hits from Nintendo's greatest games, and even includes remixes and orchestrations 
 that will make you hit your BitTorrent searchs for the songs to place on your MP3 player. New music 
 can be unlocked or collected as it falls on the ground, but if you see a CD, you better pick it 
 up quick, or it'll disappear in a matter of seconds. Definitely worth it, especially if you're 
 playing online and others want it as well.
  
  GRAPHICS- For a Wii game, the graphics are remarkable (Does this game use the Havok engine? Because 
 if it does, it's the best the Wii can get) . Remember in Melee when you went gaga over the details 
 in Mario's pants? Well, now you'll see detail in everything you do. Of course, this is a Wii we're 
 talking about. But for a Wii in 480p, this game is a dream come true.
  
  Overall, this is the one game that your Wii should not be without. If you decide to trade your 
 game library away, save this game. Congratulations on choosing the perfect fighting game period. 
 You can now die happy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: supuhpapuhmario
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  We've all waited for this game to come out. Not once but 3 times! Was it worth the wait?? Theres 
 no simpler way I could possibly put this: Yes. From those 3 delays, Nintendo has added BUTTLOADS 
 of features, character, stages, and much much more to the game. So many features that they had 
 to increase the thickness of the game's disc (but now the thickness causes it to become extremely 
 sensitive -_-) . So first off, lets start off with the foundation from Melee. It had a nice array 
 of characters you could choose from. Well now, not only is it a NICE a array, it's a HUGE array. 
 With 36 characters you could choose from, and 2 of which are third characters, what more could 
 you possibly ask for. Nintendo practically granted gamers their wish by adding Snake and Sonic 
 to Brawl. There's tons more to say about the characters but that would take me a good hour to thoroughly 
 explain.. Theres a BUTTLOAD of option you can choose, a possibly one of the greatest cinematic 
 experiences you will find on the Nintendo Wii, you're adventure mode (as in Melee) : The Subspace 
 Emissary. This adventure mode could support the game on it own, but Nintendo decided to be nice 
 and add more than just that for the low price of 50 dollars. In the Vault, you can create YOUR 
 OWN CUSTOM STAGES! And no, they don't leave out all the cool building parts such as sliding platforms, 
 dropping blocks, ice, and spinning wheels! You have almost absolute freedom with this thing. You 
 want to share your stages with friends? Well, OF COURSE you can. This supports people WITH and 
 WITHOUT wi-fi. You can either send it digitally through w-fi, OR save your stage along with picture 
 (we'll discuss a bit later) and game footage onto an SD card and lend it to your friend! Brawling 
 it out on your favorite stage now offers more than just plain fun. If offers you a HUGE array of 
 sticker and CDs. With stickers you can boost the stats of a character in adventure mode. With CDs 
 you unlock new music which you can either listen to (of course) or add to your custom Brawl Stage! 
 Pretty much at ANYTIME you can take a photo and when you're Brawling, you can record footage when 
 your online with friends OR offline. 
  
  okay, gtg, dinner.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: contradiction13
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Ok, there are a lot of reviews in this site, but this one is totally different from the others. 
 First of all, this isnt a 10, is a 9.7, because missions have not retry buttons.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  I never care about graphics (a that is why i have a wii) , but in this game they 
 just to excelent, to perfect. Lots of characters that i loved thought mi 10 years as a videogamer, 
 now revive in neat 3D graphics.
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  Superb gameplay, but there are some flaws like missions have not retry buttons, and the Coin Luncher 
 is so ADICTIVE that you are going to lost all your coins.
  
  Music 10/10
  Best music of a game, EVER! Great remixes and covers from the greatests games of the story, like 
 Zelda, Sonic and Metal Gear Solid, in one game!.
  More, there even is a song that have like 30 NES songs in one. Its remind me of the NES Clasiccs 
 i buyied for my DS. And you can choose how many posibilities of appearing have each song.
  
  Replay Value 00 (infinite) /10
  This is the special from my review. I haved both SSB and SSBM 
 but i never played them a lot because nobody had a N64 and a GC, but this is totally diferent because 
 everybody have a Wii, i repeat, everybody have a Wii and me and my friends exchange screenshots, 
 videos, stages we build with stage builder, tips, secrets, etc. What is more, after you finish 
 all 40 events in 3 difficults, you can try to defeats your friends records. And with WI-FI, you 
 can play with your friend even when they are in vacatios!!
  
  Graphics 10
  Music 10
  Gameplay 9
  Replay value 10
  Overall: 9.7
  
  Revew by a 13 years old boy, who own a Wii, 
 a DS, a Playstation1 (10 years old) and a PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiixx3
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  I first was introduced to Super Smash Bros. Brawl when it came out in the N64. I was amazed by 
 how fun it was with friends. 2 years later, Super Smash Bros. Melee came out and it was the greatest 
 game on the gamecube. Seven years later, Super Smash Bros. Brawl comes out and it is one of the 
 greatest thing in the video game market. First let go to the gameplay. The gameplay plays like 
 its predecessors. you beat up the characters so their percentage points go up and when the points 
 are really high send em flying. It is really enjoyable to just get down and just beat up with your 
 friends. The graphics are one of the best on the Wii with very detailed characters and landscapes. 
 What I really enjoyed about Brawl was the online and sharing videos and images with friends. You 
 can just brawl with anybody or just play with friends and you are guaranteed a good time. Brawl 
 is one of the games that will drag you and suck you in to the world of the Nintendo Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: footfoe2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Brawl is the 18th (lol jk) in the Super smash Bro. series from Nintindo.
  
  SHORT STORY: This game is amazing. there is just so much fun to be had playing against friends 
 and in the story mode. I highly suggest you get the game. i just don't think it deserves any awards.
 
  
  In ssbb you must 'smash" ppl off of the platform. you do this by raising their damage points like 
 all the other SSBs. The story in this one is bad guys are randomly capturing our heroes. this sets 
 you on an epic adventure though the best looking world on the Wii thus far. Some of the cut scenes 
 are just plain Awesome. This game includes a huge rooster of all your favorite nintindo characters. 
 including some others like sonic and snake. 
  This game is intensely fun. though it really seems like the kind of game you only break out when 
 you have company. Also this game is 2d and it seems like it belongs in the last gen. Especially 
 because the gamecube controler is the best way to play. No its just unforgivable in this generation 
 since it has been obsolete for over a decade.
  
  PROs: Intensely fun game play, Every ones here, Best graphics on the Wii, custom maps, cinematic 
 cutscenes, did i say fun game play? Lots of same screen multiplayer options
  Cons: This game Belongs in the past!!!!! Whats up with the story? broken online, not much single 
 player fun to be had, Same as other super smash bros.
  
  Also get a game cube or classic controller for this
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vdastampede
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  321LAUNCH!
  
  It's finally here folks. One of the biggest Nintendo game franchises has been released after a 
 very long and patient (or impatient) wait through the holdups and delays of Super Smash Brothers 
 Brawl for the Wii. Nintendo assured gamers the delays were to complete the game to an absolute 
 perfection so that no gamer would go unsatisfied. They've also promised to cram everything but 
 the kitchen sink in this next installment of Super Smash Brothers series. So is it as impressive 
 as Nintendo said?
  
  Let's get the little details out of the way first. Super Smash Brothers is a fighting game made 
 by Nintendo in which players choose a character, a stage, and use methods and techniques to beat 
 their opponent. What's so unique about Super Smash Brothers is players can choose their favorite 
 Nintendo character to play in the fight. So if you've ever argued that Mario can take on Kirby 
 in a fight, this game is your chance to prove it. The character selection reaches an incredibly 
 huge total of 32 characters with picks like Mario (Super Mario Brothers) , Link (Legend of Zelda) , 
 Fox (Star Fox 64) , Donkey Kong (Donkey Kong Country) , Kirby (Kirby's Adventure) , Pikachu (Pokemon) , 
 Captain Falcon (F-Zero) , Samus Aran (Metroid) , Pit (Kid Icarus) , Ike (Fire Emblem) , and plenty 
 more. An added plus is for the first time, Nintendo has included characters from third-party games 
 like Kojima's Solid Snake (Metal Gear Solid) and Sega's Sonic (Sonic the Hedgehog) . What's great 
 about all of these characters is how wonderfully balanced each one is. It never feels as if one 
 character has a large advantage over another and any player can become a skilled veteran with enough 
 practice no matter what his or her preferred character may be.
  
  Nintendo has also included a large number of new stages and items (as well as some old favorites 
 from games past) and each providing advantages and disadvantages that vary depending on what character 
 a player is using. It can be rather chaotic at times (although that isn't entirely a bad thing) 
 and it provides strategy and fun for anyone. It's nothing short of great multiplayer fun.
  
  One of the big complaints from the SSB franchise has been that it focuses on pure multiplayer 
 action. If you were home alone with no friends available, you were pretty much out of luck if you 
 wanted the full game experience. Well, good news my friendless friend (that doesn't even make 
 sense) Nintendo has not shunned you out into the cold this time. There are a total of seven different 
 game modes for the single player, granted only one of them is new. Many of the returning modes 
 have been given a much-needed facelift such as the Target Smash and Event Mode (which, by the way, 
 can now be played on co-op) . And with 32 different characters to choose from, you can probably 
 bet you're not going to be leaving your Wii alone anytime soon. But the most interesting game mode 
 included is a new adventure mode called "The Subspace Emissary". This features a story in which 
 all the characters join together to take down an unknown enemy from subspace in a side-scrolling 
 action game. It's pretty fun and can actually be challenging and long as you can spend about 10 
 hours completing the adventure mode by itself.
  
  The list of pros doesn't stop there. Many people are probably wondering, "Well, is there any reason 
 for me to keep the game once I've beaten the game modes?" The answer is one big giant HELL YES! 
 Nintendo has added a mode to the game called "vault." The great thing about vault mode is it gives 
 you a large assembly of items to collect. The trophies that were earned in the last game are present 
 in the new game and the collection is as big as ever. But aside from that you also have dozens 
 music soundtracks to find and listen to, hundreds of stickers that add a nice RPG touch to the 
 game, secret challenges for new items, and secret characters and stages to unlock. So if you are 
 ever complaining of having nothing to do in Super Smash Brothers Brawl, you're just being difficult.
 
  
  Other great things about the game that haven't been mentioned like taking pictures, saving replays, 
 a mini game called "coin launcher" used to collect stickers and trophies, a stage builder, and 
 the four different control options players have are also present in the game, but I think you all 
 pretty much get the idea that Nintendo went all out on the game just as they promised. But the 
 sad thing about the game is in actuality; it's far from perfect and does have its share of very 
 big problems.
  
  For one, many consoles are just unable to hold that large amount of content. Many gamers eagerly 
 placed their game in their Wiis only to find a "disc read error" screen on their televisions. Nintendo 
 has made a claim to this problem saying it's due to dust and cigarette smoke near the console and 
 damaging the interior (another reason why you cancer stick suckers should quit) . They have promised 
 that players can send their broken consoles to them for free repairs. This was a mighty generous 
 thing for them to do and many may argue that it isn't Nintendo's fault if people don't take good 
 care of their consoles, but this is hardly an excuse. In a time where technology is becoming more 
 advanced and forever evolving, something like cigarette smoke being able to take down a "next generation 
 video game console" is quite silly.
  
  Another kick in the shins was the online gameplay. Nintendo announced that players would be able 
 to play online with anyone they so desired with the online feature. As could be imagined, many 
 gamers had to be revived after passing out in pure bliss after getting word of this piece of news, 
 but after they played it they had to be revived again after they passed out in sheer disappointment. 
 The online is anything but pleasant. There is no communication between players to speak of minus 
 four text messages you have to set in advance and no rankings. Plus, if you wished to play with 
 friends, the two of you would have to exchange a long 12-digit code before you can. Nintendo added 
 the feature to protect little ones from online predators, but it doesn't change the fact that it's 
 a very big hassle that doesn't even seem worth it at times. This would all be bad enough as it 
 is, but many players found that even after dealing with those annoyances, the online play itself 
 is horrible. Connections between players were always disconnected, the lag is terrible, and many 
 players can't get a match going in the first place. Whether this be because players have bad connections 
 or just because Nintendo didn't put enough effort into the online remains unclear, but wasn't this 
 the whole point of delaying the game? To perfect the game from problems like this? It's just such 
 a shame that gamers were constantly put on suicide watch after all the postponing Nintendo was 
 doing, yet it just seems as though they didn't even have to do so in the first place. It's like 
 your parents promising to buy you that brand new car for your birthday and after their five months 
 late; the car comes without an engine.
  
  If these problems had been fixed before it launched this game could have easily received a perfect 
 score. But sadly, these issues are just too large to be overlooked. However, one big failure does 
 not overshadow many great successes (unless you count the Star Wars series) and the game is still 
 very worth the purchase. If you own a Wii, this is nothing short of an absolute must have.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chappy_man
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Upon pre-ordering my copy of Smash Brothers Brawl (one day before release) I felt as though maybe 
 the game would not live to the supposed hype i had witnessed over the last while (year) . But honeslty 
 I was pleasently suprised.
  It was hard dragging myslef from the dolphins and euphoric existance of Endless Ocean but it was 
 worth it in the end. SBB comes to the table sporting an old formula but its loaded with enough 
 extras to keep you sporting that sweet gamecube controller for a long while.
  
  SBB prides itself as ebing simple, and fun. The game is easy to pick up and provides the experience 
 match up that can allow a novice and pro to kick it off in the same stag with neither feeling to 
 powered or to low.
  
  Graphics here, well they arent much compared to the gamecubes melee version of the game, a few 
 characters sport thier new and decked out versions rom wii games but other wise things hold pretty 
 much to the same quality.
  
  GAmeplay by far is where its at. Theses solo classic, superstar mode, brawl, custom brawl, wifi, 
 create a stage, challenges, subspace emissary, etc, etc, etc. The game goes on and on.
  And people will be happy to note that lthough by the end of the subspace emissary your kicking 
 yourself from repition the game runs just long enough to not let that maek you totally insane. 
 And of course you get to unlike all the characters rather than go about it through 400 brawls for 
 some characters.
  
  Multiplayer is still the focus of the game and other than a few online glitches you can have the 
 online multiplayer play out with just as much bravado as you could want.
  Friend codes sucks here because for a friend match you need to have not only your wii codes swapped 
 but your SBB codes aswell. Someone needs to remind Nintendo theres a reason for usernames.
  
  So to keep things short its a great game, you own a Wii this is a great one for you, if you 
 dont but are thinking of getting one this should deffenelty be in your first purchase list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic7777777
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  The game is fun and very well made. It has awesome graphics compared to other Wii games. The single 
 player is good but a little too 2-D and its always kind of the same thing in the sub-space emissary. 
 You go around fighting enemies and eventually find a boss or other friend/character. The story 
 is good and the way the characters come together in the end is awesome!!! The multiplayer online 
 is probably one of funnest online additions to a game that I've played. And i've played a lot of 
 online games. Anyway besides game play and graphics, the extras like trophies and stickers are 
 really, really, really, cool because it'll not only take you a while to get them all, but its fun 
 in the process. Overall I give a straight out ten and to get all of the 35 characters and beat 
 the subspace emissary shouldn't take any more than 30-40 hrs. for the avg. player. 
  It's definetly one of the best games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LeaderDesslok
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Easily the most appealing things about the Smash Bros. series are it's solid game play and it's 
 cast of characters. The battles feel a lot like Melee's, especially since you have the ability 
 to use the GameCube controller, but at the same time feel completely different thanks to tons of 
 new and interesting game play elements such as the ability to swim and glide, and the ability to 
 use all new items and weapons.
  
  Brawl's cast is an expanded edition of Melee's roster (excluding selected clones like Dr. Mario 
 and Pichu) and feels much more well rounded. The returning fighters play mostly the same while 
 the new fighters have very distinctive fighting styles that are fun to learn and master. Sonic 
 and Snake are especially interesting due to their very unique brawling styles.
  
  SSBB's content is very similar to SSB Melee in many regards, but the amount of content has been 
 boosted a ton. All of the familiar brawling modes are back plus some great new additions like "Boss 
 Battle Mode" and an expanded "Special Brawls" section that lets you create your own insane match 
 scenarios for up to 4 players. Other new modes such as "Stage Builder" and the trophy area's "Diorama 
 Mode" allow players to get creative and have fun even when they're not in the mood to fight.
  
  Adventure mode is back, but it has been completely revamped into a side scrolling game called 
 the "Subspace Emissary." The plot follows the characters featured in the game as they try to solve 
 the mystery surrounding a sinister figure known as the Ancient Minister who is using his subspace 
 bomb to tear apart the Super Smash Bros. world. The action in this mode can get a bit repetitive, 
 but overall, the story's plot and it's fantastic and often humorous cut scenes are more than enough 
 to keep player's attention.
  
  Overall, Super Smash Bros. Brawl is a welcome addition to Nintendo's praised franchise, and more 
 than lives up to all of the hype that it has generated and will likely continue to generate throughout 
 the Wii's lifespan. I give SSBB a "9.5". The only thing that keeps it from getting a "10" is the 
 lack of King K. Rool as a playable character. Aaaaaaaahhh. Maybe next time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robocephal
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Favorite Wii title to date. Only rival might be Guitar Hero for me. Definitely worth the $50 unlike 
 other games that lose their playing value. I geuss i have to have 100 words so i am going to say 
 a bunch of stuff that doesn't mean anything. The new characters of super smash brothers brawl are 
 pretty sweet and cool like wolf and toon link along with meta knight and ganondorf. I wish they 
 would have kept out snake though he is a kind of cheap player because if the save thing (up then 
 b) and instead have put in someone else. I need to fill up space again i don't know why it has 
 a minimum of 800 characters i can use superfluous words to deftly increase the magnitude of my 
 voluntary recommedation of the game Super Smash Brothers Brawl. The Wii has many striking qualiies 
 a=such as the abnility to send messages to people via the wireless connection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lio83197
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Oh my god! Definitely the best out of all three Super Smash. Fast paced, amazing graphics, great 
 new items, its just amazing. If you are using the Wii remote and Nunchuk the controls will take 
 some getting used to. I haven't tried it with the GC controller but I'm sure its much easier especially 
 since I remember the controls from Melee. There are no words to describe how great this game is. 
 I've played all three Super Smash and the first two can't even compete with this Brawl. I definitely 
 recommend EVERYONE to get this. Whether you have or haven't played any Super Smash before doesn't 
 matter, I am ordering you to get this game becuase you will love it and want to have children with 
 it. This game deserves an 11 but unfortunatly I can only give it a 10 = (
  
  If there is anything you want to know about this game before buying it feel free to send me a message, 
 I'll answer your questions because I really want you to have this game. The $50 is definitely worth 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tikotuck
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is definately the best game for the wii so far. Solid graphics, a huge roster, great 
 audio, and the addition of final smashes makes this game purely awesome. 
  This game has been so highly anticipated that some people wondered if this game game could live 
 up to all that anticipation. Well it has. It's earned the top selling nintendo game ever.
  Final smashes were a great idea. Giving each character a ultimate personal special move activated 
 by a item called the smash ball just made multiplayer so much better than melee.
  Nintendo really made a good choice allowing third patry caracters in Brawl. The addition of Snake 
 and Sonic made the roster diverse. Speaking of the roster, let's admire it for a second.35 characters. 
 that's 11 more characters tan they had in melee, and I think 23 more characters than in the original 
 Super Smash Bros game.
  In melee, you constantly battled, and that was prettty much it, don't get me wrong melee is a great 
 game, but compared to brawl, it's child's play. Anyway, this game has so many features other then 
 brawling. Brawling is awesome, don't get me wrong again. But it's nice to know that there are many 
 other features to back it up. Like: stage builder, coin launcher, snapshots, stickers, trophies, 
 boss battle mode, target smash, homerun contest and other things.
  The audio is great. With great sound effects, and hundreds of music pieces form a bunch of different 
 games. Most of them are simple tracks jazzed up a lot. like kirby's gourmet race. Simple song. 
 but now it is awesome with synthesizers and junk.
  Overall, this is most likely the greatest game I've ever played.
  Yeah, it's that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rex369
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is a great add on to this series. In my opinion it is the best game for 
 the Wii. It has to be the best game to play with your friends. It is almost impossible to get sick 
 of this game. 
  
  I only have a couple complaints about this great game: It takes to long to get into an online game 
 and the end of the Subspace Emissary drags on in the maze. Besides those 2 thing the game is great. 
 After you beat the game you still have tons of other things to do. Online, Map Builder, Classic, 
 All star, Boss Battles and tons of other stuff to do. One of my favorite new things to do is bet 
 on the online games. With the coins you win you can get trophies and stickers on using the coin 
 launcher. 
  
  There is nothing better then battling with a basement full of friends. This game is awesome and 
 should be a definite buy for any Wii owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Topopor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  the best of the best.
  
  Well, I actually have one or two friends who don't enjoy Super Smash Bros. Brawl. But I'm pretty 
 sure it's a problem with them, not the game.
  
  The long-awaited sequel to Nintendo's biggest-selling GameCube title, Brawl is a four-player fighting 
 game featuring the company's unequaled stable of mascot characters, from Mario to Zelda to everyone 
 in between. Brawl is the ultimate party game: A chaotic, outrageously fun, impeccably polished 
 good time.
  
  Although I just called it a "fighting game," Smash Bros. is not a complex tactical martial arts 
 head-scratcher. It's more like playing a competitive version of Super Mario Bros., except instead 
 of trying to jump over enemies, you're whaling on your friends. This means that even novice players 
 will instantly understand how to play if they ever picked up a videogame controller after 1985. 
 
  
  There's nothing quite like playing Brawl with a couch full of friends. The fact that you're all 
 attacking each other with infuriatingly adorable characters makes a Smash Bros. match much more 
 rowdy than a Mario Kart race or a game of Wii tennis. And the hundreds of different items that 
 drop randomly into the arena means that matches are utterly unpredictable. A Nintendog might crawl 
 up to the screen, blocking everyone's view. You might assemble the pieces of a fighter jet and 
 send it flying into your foes.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiometalZX
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, I cannot think of any other game with this much detailed graphics, in-depth story, and 
 uber multiplayer action; Brawl is, without a doubt, the best wii game in its class! The Subspace 
 Emmissarry is the meat of this game, and my favorite part is that while playing this mode, you 
 unlock characters the group mode to use! Another Great feature would be that there are more taunts 
 to use and more outfits/colors for each character, really gives it the "OMG! HE IS MESSED UP (in 
 a good way) " feeling. It is really easy to learn with built-in tutorials, 4 different control methods, 
 and better reflex time for each character. This game defiantly lived up to its title "The Brawl 
 to end all Brawls" and will always be a treat to those who play it. Keep On Brawling Everyone! 
 :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  (Letter Grade: B) 
  Story: Super Smash Bros. Brawl has something that all the Smash Bros. games lack, an actual story. 
 Let me sum it up in the least amount of words possible. All of Nintendo's heroes join forces to 
 defeat a mysterious evil emerging from Subspace, that's why the story is called Subspace Emissary, 
 clever huh. With all the Nintendo characters pairing up and fighting evil together, it can feel 
 like you are playing another version of Kingdom Hearts. The story is shown through cut scenes, 
 which isn't bad or anything, but the short pauses in between the cut scenes is terrible. It really 
 takes away that finesse from the overall story. It's pretty much your basic save the world type 
 plot, but since Nintendo is finally trying something new with the Smash Bros. series I would cut 
 them some slack. 
  
  (Letter Grade: A)
  Gameplay: This is where all Smash Bros. games shine the most, and Brawl is definitely no exception. 
 There is so much to do in this game that my review could end up being three pages long, but since 
 you guys/gals have a life and gaming career to get to, I'll keep this part short, or I'll try. 
 In Brawl you have the classic uhhh.. classic mode, all star mode, home run contest, multi man melee, 
 you know, all that old stuff from the previous games. You can still take part in basic 4 player 
 action, or turn up the madness notch up 1 and play special matches. There are many collectibles 
 to. collect, events to clear, pictures to take, and characters to unlock. It's a Smash Bros. game, 
 there is enough stuff to do that will keep you occupied for months, maybe even years. I want to 
 point out the new additions though. You can now play a story mode called Subspace Emissary (refer 
 back to story section of review) , build your own stages, and even bring your fights online now. 
 Subspace Emissary gets pretty repetitive as you progress through the game and the in-game camera 
 for co-op play acts like it has a seizure or something, and the stage builder is a nice addition 
 but I wouldn't call it in depth. In the beginning I was very excited to hear that Brawl would allow 
 you to play online matches, but in the end I was sort of disappointed. Sure you can host matches 
 with your friends, but that is pretty much where the online fun ends. There are no other online 
 options when vs. people randomly besides a 2 min match; that's hardly enough time to even kill 
 anyone. There is still some lag between a button command and an actual attack, even if the match 
 is running smoothly. Brawl is still a very fun game, it is like all the previous games but it feels 
 very improved. It does something that many games often fail to do, be better than its predecessor. 
 Fighting has never been so much fun. 
  
  (Letter Grade: A)
  Graphics: The characters, levels, everything, has gotten a much needed next gen make over. The 
 game is absolutely gorgeous. The new levels are visually appealing, more interactive, and unique 
 in each way. The character models have an improved look, and different feel than in melee; that's 
 a good thing. What really impressed me were the high quality cut scenes in Subspace Emissary. Those 
 cut scenes were absolutely gorgeous; even I wasn't expecting the Wii to be able to handle it. I 
 would like to say that Brawl is the best looking Wii game, but I'm sure that another game will 
 prove me wrong in the future. So I'll say that Brawl is one of the best looking Wii games, SO FAR..
 
  
  (Letter Grade: A)
  Sound: Great sound effects. check. Awesome in-game music.. check. Funny character noises when attacking 
 or dying.. check. I really have to thank Nintendo for compiling all the great Nintendo music from 
 the past and the present into one disc. I sometimes find myself listening to the music rather than 
 playing the game. weird huh. I can easily say that Brawl has the best in-game music I have ever 
 heard, which is sort of unfair since Brawl consists of multiple game soundtracks, but who cares. 
 
  
  (Report Card: A)
  Overall: Super Smash Bros. Brawl is simply amazing. People will be playing this game for years 
 to come, or at least until a new Super Smash Bros. game comes out. If you don't have this game 
 now, get off your butt, run or drive to the closest electronics store, and pick up a copy. If you 
 don't you might as well just hit yourself on the head with your Wii. That's right; the game is 
 so awesome that you have to resort to personal pain. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genesiz
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  Super smash brothers brawl is the best game for the wii it was worth the wait and it has much new 
 things like stages and stickers and you can make your own photos and shoot photos when you're In 
 Brawls. This review will explain everything new in this game.
  
  This game has great 3d graphics and the story is awesome and there's much more characters and you 
 can fight with other players with Nintendo wi-fi and the final smashes are really cool and the 
 items are also really great yo will have a great time playing brawl alone or with your friends.
 
  
  
  
  And also the boss fight are really fun and the special brawls are really cool and the tournament 
 mode is really good when you're with your friends the events are really fun to do and you can make 
 your own stages and you can put any of the music for the stage you make you can make it with lots 
 of things or not much things super smash brothers brawl is definitely the best game for the wii. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaSealedWeh
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  As a huge fan of Super Smash Brothers and Melee, I ended up very ambilvalent and ultimately unamused 
 with Brawl. I tried to like it, I really did. I rented it from Gamefly instead of right out buying 
 it for some reason, and am extremely glad I did. I kept it for a full two weeks longer than I wanted 
 to because I really hoped to glean some sort of enjoyment from it, but to no avail. Unfortunately 
 there is nothing in particular that I can say bad about the game, it just felt... ordinary. Maybe 
 it was hyped up so much before I played it that I expected the Holy Grail of fun fighting games, 
 or maybe I just expected something other than what it is entirely. When I find out, I'll let you 
 know. I'm sure that a lot of other people really love this game, and I'm not bashing it at all, 
 but as a very independent dissenter, I figured I'd let my opinion of this rather uninteresting 
 game be known. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlmightyMax
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to believe that it's been two years since Super Smash Bros. Brawl was first announced 
 at Nintendo's press conference at e3 2K6. Since then, the hype surrounding the game has become 
 nearly insurmountable, and most die-hard Smash fans - myself included - have nearly been driven 
 mad with anticipation. Super Smash Bros. Brawl has definitely been a long time coming, and we all 
 knew it would take a miracle for it to live up to players expectations. Incredibly, Brawl does 
 just that and much more you probably would never dare to expect.
  
  If I was asked to sum up Brawl with one word, that word would be more. The latest addition to Nintendo's 
 tremendously popular franchise does everything not only bigger, but better. 35 characters as opposed 
 to Melee's 25. Over forty stages, plus a stage editor; a giant improvement over the measly 24 in 
 its predecessor. A ridiculous amount of Nintendo's history has been represented here in some shape 
 or form; from Kid Icarus to Animal Crossing to Pictochat. With the plethora of items, stages, characters, 
 trophies, stickers and songs present in Brawl, you're sure to find something to tug at your nostalgic 
 heartstrings.
  
  Never played a Smash Bros. game before? Don't worry; the game is ridiculously easy to learn; even 
 more so thanks to fluid and tight controls and numerous control options. You can play Super Smash 
 with your choice of the Wii Remote alone, which feels the most intuitive, the Wii Remote and Nunchuck, 
 which is actually rather clumsy and awkward, and the Classic Controller or Gamecube Controller, 
 which are best for old-school fans of the series. Once you've gotten your controller of choice, 
 simply pick a character from all over Nintendo's history (preferably with a couple of friends) 
 and start fighting. The goal is to, by any means possible; knock your opponent off the edge of 
 the screen. You have both Standard Attacks and Smash Attacks at your disposal, and can use them 
 to build up your opponent's damage percentage to make them easier to knock off the screen. The 
 game is far from shallow, however; a lot of strategy goes into figuring out character-specific 
 combos, how to make the most out of the items, and how to survive the game's numerous stages.
 
  
  Brawl's stages are simply the best there's ever been in any Smash game before it. If you're one 
 of those 'hardcore' gamers who measure your skill in an uneventful, barren battlefield, there are 
 a few stages for you; try out Smashville, Final Destination, or the Lylat Cruise. But if you want 
 your matches being mixed up a bit, prepare to be blown away. I've got a ton of new favorites, including 
 WarioWare, which randomly throws microgames at you. Completing these will either make you invincible, 
 bigger, or heal you a little. Then there's New Pork City from Earthbound, the largest stage Smash 
 Bros. has ever seen; perfect for four-player bouts. Spear Pillar is possibly the greatest of all, 
 though, with Dialga and Palkia appearing in the background to continually mess you up. Throw in 
 the Stage Builder and you've got literally thousands of unique stages to fight on. I've just come 
 off making a ridiculously awesome Tetris stage, and once I find another inspiration I'll go off 
 and make more. The Stage Builder is simple to use and anyone can make a stage in a matter of minutes.
 
  
  Items, a big part of the Smash series, also return in full effect with new items like the Smart 
 Bomb from StarFox, the Superspicy Curry from the Kirby universe and the ultra-powerful Golden Hammer 
 which can send foes flying at ridiculously low percentages. Then there's the Assist Trophies which 
 randomly spawn a cameo character who helps you finish your opponents, and the Smash Ball. The Smash 
 Ball allows players to unleash devastating, character-specific finishing moves which are as fun 
 to use as they are to watch. But the Final Smashes don't turn the tide of battle so much they feel 
 overly cheap. Most of them actually require a lot of timing and skill to execute, and only the 
 best players will be able to get an instant KO using them. Others, like Pit's, Mario's or Donkey 
 Kong's will activate at any time, but don't have nearly the same effect as say, Link's or Sonic's.
 
  
  Speaking of Brawl's characters, the roster is extremely impressive. Not only are there more characters 
 with even more colourful backgrounds, but they all have an extremely balanced move set and control 
 like a dream. No matter what kind of play style you have there'll be a character for you in Brawl. 
 Even the Tank characters, which I shied away from in prior installments, have been made much more 
 accessible thanks to a greater movement range and much more satisfying attacks. If you prefer the 
 speedier characters like I do then you'll be able to jump right in playing as Meta Knight, Pit 
 or Sonic. Thanks to their super-speedy attacks and huge recovery ability, the lightweights can 
 be just as deadly as the tanks if you know what you're dealing with. A true Smash pro will, of 
 course, try to master the quirks of each of the 35 characters and will find most of them to play 
 quite well (with the exception of the nearly immobile Ganondorf) .
  
  So; we've got new characters, new items, and new stages galore: That's just what Melee gave us 
 seven years ago. Since then expectations have been raised, and for Brawl to be a truly great game 
 it needs to offer up something its predecessor didn't. Incredibly, Brawl has found two new ways 
 to improve on Melee's wonderful formula. First off; you can now play Smash Bros. online via Nintendo 
 WFC. Seeing as the computer AI can act retarded even on the hardest difficulty, it's a relief to 
 play against real people who can adapt to the play conditions as the match progresses. There's 
 also surprisingly little lag; you'll have to deal with a split-second delay between your button 
 press and your character's action on-screen, but other than that the online mode plays quite well. 
 The only criticism here is communication - or rather, lack thereof. When you play against random 
 people you won't be able to see their names and no records will be kept of the match, and chat 
 with friends is limited to short messages activated by taunting. Obviously this is part of Nintendo's 
 asinine quest to keep things 'family friendly', but half the fun of Smash is laughing at your friends 
 as you knock them into oblivion. Removing the sheer joy of something as simple as that? Epic fail.
 
  
  The other big new feature is the Subspace Emissary adventure mode, which is sure to turn heads 
 and raise eyebrows of diehard Smash fans. Basically, it's an expansive single-player beat-'em-up 
 borrowing elements from basic platformers such as Kirby. Subspace lacks a considerable amount of 
 polish compared to some of the other modes (particularly in the platforming segments) , and the 
 story is just a random jumble of fairly unrelated scenarios. All in all though, it's an enjoyable 
 way to get acquainted with each of the characters and considering it is thrown in as an extra it's 
 hard to be too hard on it.
  
  In terms of audio/visual presentation, Brawl is simply peerless on the Wii. Like its predecessors, 
 Brawl is a very fast-paced and fluid game, now running at a rock-solid 60 frames a second that 
 never dips (online play excepting) . Each of the numerous locales has its own distinctive look and 
 the numerous high quality cutscenes in the Subspace Emissary are all fantastic. Next to Super Mario 
 Galaxy, there's no better looking game on the Wii. And if you're a sucker for a game with a soundtrack, 
 ooh boy, you're in for a treat. Super Smash Bros. Brawl's 300+ song soundtrack highlights all the 
 best Nintendo tunes, as well as some from Sega and Konami. Every composer imaginable has had a 
 hand in Brawl, from Nobou Uematsu to Hideki Naganuma to Kenji Yamamoto. Without a doubt, this is 
 the best video game OST in history, and you're sure to find something to keep the volume cranked 
 up.
  
  There you have it; Super Smash Bros. Brawl is another brilliant achievement by Nintendo. It definitely 
 has its fair share of problems, and I could probably find enough criticisms to keep you reading 
 for the next week or so, but the seventy hours I've invested in it already say they don't really 
 matter. The incredible multiplayer and attention to detail make Super Smash Bros. Brawl the very 
 definition of 'labour of love' and the single best game on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: COWS2
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Melee in my Mind was one of the Greatest games to hit the GC. Brawl follows the same formula but 
 it adds a good deal of depth and extras to it. Ill be breaking down it down in parts.
  
  Graphics 9/10: ITs Fantastic and looks amazing (For a wii Game) A massive improvement over Melee. 
 Sometimes i lost track just by looking at the backgrounds :D.
  
  Gameplay 8.5/10: Its nothing new but it adds a good deal of new items and the final smash is sweeet. 
 Its best played with 3-4 players where its pure chaos. It adds to the roster and adds to the levels 
 but it makes you have to adapt to each arena you fight in. 
  
  Campaign 9.5/10: Three modes to play. The good ol' classic mode which is the same adventure and 
 you beat up micky mouse's hand in the end. The Subspace Emissary which is one of the most cinematic 
 and frustrating adventures created. Then there's the all star mode I won't talk much about it but 
 it shows you can pwn everyone. Sometimes i found the campaign to long! (This is coming from a guy 
 who owns Rome and Medieval Total War)
  
  Addictivness 10/10: I've had this game for a little while but there's no secret what you want to 
 do. Find a kick ass character and show that you can beat the hell out of the others. It's amazingly 
 fun online and you don't wanna stop. I found using the training mode pretty useful and useless. 
 Useful in a way that it improved my skills 10x from when i first started. But Useless that training 
 on a level 9 makes you feel your trainng on a level 5, but that's my opinion.
  
  Avg: 9.2
  Conclusion:
  Own the game :D
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeeDeeDee-er
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Nothing can beat the sheer thrill of playing as your favorite character from most any series, and 
 still be able to fight other characters. Dreams come true! Mario fights Sonic, Mario, Sonic, and 
 Snake, the mascots of their companies all fight, Toon Link fights Link, the three evil kings (DeDeDe, 
 Bowser, and Ganondorf) all fight, and just about anything you can imagine.
  
  I have to say, the additions they made to this game, such as new characters, stages, the Final 
 Smash, and the Subspace Emissary all make the amazing series even better. SSE is in my opinion 
 one of the greatest adventure modes to exist in any game. Why? Because it links every existing 
 series' plot into one enormous stage. 
  
  The Final Smashes are thrilling to pull off, and play beautifully. The graphics are amazing and 
 crystal clear, so much you feel like you could actually touch them.
  
  The new characters and stages make for the greatest roster and greatest battlefields in the series.
 
  
  Whether you love or hate Nintendo (I love it) , you will find something to love about this game. 
 Something, that will keep the controller glued to your hand for hours. And don't forget, if you 
 hate a character in the game, you can always beat the living crap out of them :P. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fox_fan1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Really good game. Longer than melee, but the events are a lot easier. Even though it is somewhat 
 easy, it is addictive, and it's extremely hard to put down. Wi-fi connections brings the games 
 to other levels cause you can play with friends without inviting them over and you can practice 
 your skills by playing strangers online and your identify is perfectly unknown. SSE is really fun 
 because the bosses are fun to take down and SSE has a good story. I would recommend this game even 
 though you beat SSE it has great replay value. It's only 49.99 unlike metroid prime 3 corruption 
 for 59.99. You have to thank nintendo for making such a godly game. The graphics for this game 
 is a lot better than the other super smash brother games. Also the 35 available characters make 
 it more fun cause you get more varieties of movesets. Also the 41 stages make you plan great combos 
 with each characther. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: painter015k
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  The wait is finally over and it was worth it. Brawl is the ultimate game to hit the Wii and is 
 almost flawless. To start off, the graphics are some of the best to be seen on the Wii, clearly 
 showing that a ton of hard work was put in by the game's designers. The cutscenes of the SSE are 
 some of the best graphics in the game. The SSE also provides an epic storyline that doesn't even 
 need voice acting to pull it off. The levels vary in length, but they are packed full of enemies 
 that can get annoying sometimes. The bosses found in SSE provide an interesting challenge.
  The SSE is not the only thing that makes Brawl awesome. The music is perfect. Every piece of music 
 in the game blends in perfectly with the stage and series it was meant for. 
  As always, the multiplayer is one of best feature of a Smash game. The 35 character roster provides 
 plenty of variety. Snake and Sonic add even more variety since now some of the 3rd parties are 
 getting in on the action. Single player is as good as it always is. Classic and All-Star get a 
 little repetitive and its tedious to get all the characters' trophies because of the huge roster. 
 Event matches are still challenging, but some are too easy and forgiving, but doesn't stop Brawl 
 from being an awesome game. If you're a Wii owner or a Smash fan, Brawl is the game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bdup52
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is by far the best game ever made. SSBB is much better than it's predecessor 
 Melee for 6 reasons.
  1. More Characters, everybodies been looking forward to more characters and new ones at that. Snake, 
 Pit, and Meta- Knight are my best ones.
  2. Final Smash. The ultimate move of every character instead just a smash move. My favorites are 
 Mario's, Samus', and Snake's.
  3. New and improved items. I love the addition of the smart bomb from Star Fox, and the new Assist 
 Trophies are great in a tight situation.
  4. Some new moves for old Characters. Aparrently you can teach an old dog new tricks, Ganondorfs 
 new mve is great and comes in handy.
  5. Graphics. Even for Wii the graphics on the cut scenes were outstanding.
  6. An actual story- 
 line. The improved adventure mode, or The Subspace Emissary is much better than running around 
 on platforms fighting mindless creatures. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrownMustardGas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  It began in 1999 when we were delivered the first member of the smash family. The same year, a 
 legacy was born. The sensation of throwing your favorite characters at each others throats was 
 overwhelming. 
  
  Enough of the history, its time to review. First off, I'll start with the must anticipated topic. 
 Characters. Brawl features an astonishing 35 playable characters. Not to mention an additional 
 horde of assist trophies. Assist trophies are in game items the players use to summon additional 
 characters to aid them in battle. Such assist trophies include hammer bros, Nintendo dogs, micro 
 bikes and much more. Also there is a revised list of Pokemon who will come to help you through 
 the use of a pokeball. 
  
  Each character has his or her own unique move set. Unfortunately some character's moves are so 
 similar its hard to find the difference. Nevertheless there are numerous strategies you can master 
 with each character to conquer your foes. If you can't beat them with just your moves then take 
 the fight to them with over 30 items. Some items we have seen in the previous smash games such 
 as green shell, ray gun or beam sword. However there are plenty of new items to get the hang of 
 such as cracker launcher or the smash ball. The smash ball adds a whole new aspect to the game. 
 It can completely turn a game around. Each character has a special or "smash" move. To use a special, 
 a player must bust open the smash ball with regular brawl attacks. The player who breaks it apart 
 will be able to crush his foes in a single blow. 
  
  If tide-turners such as the smash ball arn't your cup of tea, simply turn it off in the item switch 
 menu. Also, while toying around with the rules, be sure to check out the special brawl area which 
 allows you to create your own special matches such as giant brawl or metal brawl or giant metal 
 brawl.
  If this doesn't satisfy your creativity be sure to check out the stage builder. Yes. I said stage 
 builder. You actually get to build your own stage which means you will probably never get bored 
 of the game. 
  
  IF you don't have the knack for building stages, just play some of the brand new stages made especially 
 for brawl. There are nearly 20 new stages brought to the new game plus old stages from Melee, and 
 some new secret stages. 
  
  When you've had enough practice on your own, take the fight online. Battle against people all over 
 the globe, or just people you know. If your not in the fighting mood, you can spectate or watch 
 a match. You can even bet on who you think will be the winner. 
  
  With this new smash comes a new story mode. Instead of the same old classic matches, battle it 
 out in the all new Sub-Space Embassy. If features a multitude of side scrolling levels that you 
 can tackle alone or with a friend. 
  If your more of an olds school guy then you can still play traditional classic mode.
  
  So 
 whether your testing your creativity or your skills at smash, Brawl pretty much offers anything 
 a smash fan could want.
  
  
  In a nutshell here's what the game has to offer
  
  New Characters
  New Stages
  New Items
  Online
  Event Matches
  Co-op Event Matches
  
 New Story Mode
  Classic Mode
  Stage Builder
  Replays and Snapshots
  Stadium Events
  Special Brawl
  Assist Trophies
  Collectible Trophies 
  Collectible Stickers
  Tons of Unlockables 
 
  Hours upon Hours of fun!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StillFreeTagger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Once every few years, a legendary bunch comes together for some mildly-friendly combat. It started 
 out simple, a plumber, a legendary hero, an ape. Then it expanded to a chaotic hand and a giant 
 lizard. Now add a spy, a hedgehog, and an army of space robots and you get the next big thing. 
 Prepare yourself... for Mortal Kom... oh wait wrong game.
  
  Prepare yourself, for Super Smash Bros. Brawl!
  
  The highly acclaimed Super Smash Bros. franchise 
 returns with Brawl. More characters, more arenas, a new adventure mode, better graphics, lots of 
 unlockables! Throw a party and invite everyone you know!
  
  Brawl is the first in the series to include third-party characters. Snake from Konami's Metal Gear 
 Solid and Sonic from Sega's flagship series are ready to rumble. Both have special moves matching 
 their play style from their games. Sonic claims the top-spot of fastest character. Was there any 
 doubt? Great additions, but if NIntendo makes any downloads or an expansion, I wanna see Rayman 
 and possibly Beat. They were on Nintendo systems. See for yourself.
  
  SSBBrawl still retains the simple controls used in the series. On basics, there are only two attack 
 buttons, but variating the direction will change it up. Holding the special button with Link will 
 have him shoot an arrow, but pushing forward and pressing special will make him throw his shiny, 
 new Gale Boomerang. Other controls include, grabbing, blocking, jumping, taunting... the works.
 
  
  Graphics in Brawl have some bit of depth, but are limited to the full potential of the Wii console. 
 A closer look will reveal blocky limbs/figures and pasted on textures. Even some of the backgrounds 
 in the adventure mode look like cardboard cut-outs. Nintendo has proven they can do better in the 
 past with games like Zelda: Twilight Princess and Pokemon: Battle Revolution. Makes you wonder 
 if they were a bit lazy this time.
  
  Sound is phenomenal! Over 100 tracks of original and classic Nintendo scores! I really enjoyed 
 the Metroid Prime theme during adventure mode. Some classics have been remixed and sound great!
 
  
  Adventure mode in Brawl is new, improved, and is called the SubSpace Emmisary. In it, Nintendo 
 characters must band together to face a common enemy, an army of space robots trying to destroy 
 the world. Just like Melee, adventure consists of side-scrolling beat-em-up. You can play it single 
 or co-op. 
  
  SubSpace Emmisary is an epic that must be played. Cut-scenes are great and humorous. There is no 
 dialouge however. You'll be surprised by the many plot-twists and alliances that are formed. I 
 would have never expected Diddy to team up with Fox and Falco, or Link with Yoshi. I was however 
 disappointed that Sonic had a small role. It would have been great to see him and Mario butt heads 
 throughout the story.
  
  Bonuses in Brawl include trophies, a few mini-games, demo versions of classics. Lots of goodies 
 to look at when you're not Brawlin'.
  
  The best in the series, Brawl deserves it all. Any owner of a Wii needs this game. Put down Super 
 Mario Galaxy, and give Twilight Princess a break. Go out and give Brawl one hell of a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prankinyou
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Now if you are a fan of the Super Smash Bros. game, obviously you have already bought this game. 
 If you have never played the SSB games, start here. When you first turn on the game, you are amazed 
 at the graphics that the title just has. When you play a brawl, you find out it's a fast paced game 
 and it gets some getting used to. Once you play the game for a while you get a lot better. One 
 of the biggest and newest features of SSBB is the sub-space emmisary. The story along takes you 
 about 10 hours to complete. Then of corse you have the original Classic Mode and All-Star Mode. 
 They have also have added Archives which is both useless and helpful. The only part that is helpful 
 about this is it unlocks stages and music. That's it. They have also included replays, albums, 
 stage builder, retro demos, and a chronical. When in options, there is something called my music 
 which is useful at some point. You can choose which music will be played at a specific stage, so 
 you won't have to listen to some crappy music you don't like. You can also change your controls 
 to how you like which is nice, I guess... So anyways this game is awsome like all of the other 
 Super Smash games. In conclusion, hopefully they get the next game to be even more awsome, hopefully 
 on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luvfosurvialhor
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Brawl is unquestionably the most anticipated game to come out on Wii. After all, why play as just 
 one Nintendo hero when you can control almost all of them? Eclipsing the popularity of classic 
 franchises via consolidation, Brawl effectively takes everything that made Melee great and improves 
 upon it in subtle yet effective ways. 
  
  The combat system is practically identical to the previous iteration. While this will excite hardcore 
 fans, players who never got into Melee will find little here that will change their minds. The 
 nunchuk/remote control option is completely serviceable, but you're really going to want a GameCube 
 or Classic controller to truly succeed. The sideways remote-only control scheme is a complete mess, 
 and should only be used to put friends at a hilarious disadvantage.
  
  Outside of alternate control options, the biggest change to core combat is the Final Smash. These 
 icons randomly float through the air and encourage players to drop what they're doing and go for 
 it. The first to grab it can unleash a satisfying overthetop, screen-filling attack that may turn 
 the tide of battle. Final Smashes do not, however, guarantee victory and can be turned off in multiplayer 
 for concerned purists.
  
  The dozen-plus new characters bring a little something fresh to the fight and are balanced well 
 with the rest of the roster. Pikmin tamer Olimar gains stronger attacks as more little friends 
 follow him around, Metal Gear's Solid Snake has a steerable Nikita missile shot, and Sonic utilizes 
 his trademark speed in interesting ways. However, characters like Fire Emblem's Ike, Zero Suit 
 Samus, and Mother's Lucas are slightly tweaked palette swap replacements of existing or former 
 characters. It would have been nice to see more reimagined classic characters like Pit, but it's 
 tough to complain when there's already this much variety. 
  
  New clever stage design is where you'll find most of the innovation in Brawl's battles. My particular 
 favorites include arenas based on the constantly changing environments of WarioWare and Pictochat, 
 and the side scrolling world 1-1 of the original Super Mario Bros. With the constant stream of 
 unlocks, it always feels like you're getting a fresh backdrop to experiment in. 
  
  While Classic, Event, and Stadium modes return in similar form, the centerpiece this time around 
 is the Subspace Emissary. This seemingly endless barrage of platforming stages and battles joins 
 together the cast for one giant war against a mysterious enemy. An absurd amount of impressive 
 pre-rendered cutscenes ranging from epic to just plain silly tie everything together, and will 
 most likely be the primary incentive for many players to make it through the entire campaign. Essentially 
 a 10-hour Classic mode, this adventure gradually loses its promising luster through repeated environments, 
 challenges, and enemies. Like most games out there, however, playing co-op style helps keep things 
 fresh.
  
  Online play is implemented about as well as it can be within Nintendo's structure. After going 
 through the friend code hassle, Smash buddies can be easily browsed to see who's online. Friend 
 battles include basically all the options of the offline mode, though true voice chat is disappointingly 
 replaced by customizable phrases mapped to the d-pad. Facing off against strangers, however, is 
 a different ballgame. You can't see anyone's name, communicate with them in any way, or customize 
 your match outside of item toggling. Everyone's so devoid of personality that it's almost like 
 you're fighting bots. The only match type available is a "2 minute KO-fest." No time options. No 
 stock matches. The only thing you can definitively choose is your character.
  
  Outside of the need for online improvements and a more concise and engaging campaign, Brawl still 
 hits all the right buttons. With extremely tight controls and finely tuned balance, the core fighting 
 mechanics and local multiplayer are spot on. There's still nothing like learning the intricacies 
 of every character, discovering possibly the most unlockables in any game yet, and using all of 
 that to beat the crap out of your friends late into the night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stebbinsd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is quite possibly the most anticipated game in the Wii's short history. 
 Packed with more Nintendo nostalgia than the entire NES Library (literally, because some of the 
 characters were created after NES) , and gameplay that's richer that Donald Trump, this game is 
 is the ultimate combination of build-up and deliverance. In fact, it got me into video games after 
 a six-month hiatus because games were getting boring for me.
  
  Let's start at the bottom and work our way up, shall we? The sound is second to none. You don't 
 need digital surround sound to have a great experience, just hit the high notes right and you'll 
 satisfy me.
  
  The graphics are also top notch for a Wii game. One of the first things that sold me on this game 
 was the screenshot of Mario waring REAL denim, instead of the cartoon blue cotton-like overalls. 
 The fire effects are awesome, and the final smashes look very flashy.
  
  Speaking of final smashes, they're one of the new things in this game. Final smashes are, for lack 
 of a better term, finishing moves. They either are very powerful, can cover a large distance, or 
 are easy to pull off, or any combination thereof. Most final smashes look flashy (as mentioned 
 before) , but that's of minor importance except for the graphics. I personally find Pickachu's final 
 smash as the best, but he isn't a powerful regular fighter. Kirby is the one I've had the best 
 luck with in previous Smash Bros games, but his final smash is pitiful (I'm lucky if it does 25% 
 damage) . If you're looking for sheer raw muscle and endurance, they don't get much better than 
 Bowser, who is hard to knock off (because he's so friggin heavy) and can send you flying hard if 
 he hits you, but it's hard to hit someone as Bowser. Fox is the exact opposite; he can hit you 
 several times per unit time, and is very agile, but it will take a while to do a lot of damage. 
 All this evaluating is to explain that Nintendo has done a good job of balancing the characters. 
 There's no definitive character like Scorpion that everyone will want to be.
  
  Just like there is no one best character, nor is there no one best map. Every map has its advantages 
 and disadvantages. For example, Hyrule Castle has wind that makes it hard to move around. Planet 
 Zebes will flood molten lava and burn you. I can't tell right now if the fact that characters tend 
 to win when on their respective maps is just coincidence for me or if they actually get a stat 
 boost for being on the home turf, but it's cool either way.
  
  Of course, even if there is a stat boost, it's no match for pure raw skill, and you will find that 
 online via Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection (why do they still call it Wi-Fi? You have the option of a 
 wired connection, don't you?) . Nintendo has made this experience just as seemless as the rest of 
 their online first party games. You hop in, get assigned some opponents, choose your characters 
 and map, and open up a can of whoopass. No lag whatsoever.
  
  Now, you may be wondering, "but man, if the game is this great, why give it a 9.5 and not a 10?" 
 Well, for the same reason that Gamespot didn't give this game a 10, because it's not perfect. There's 
 one problem to take away from the game's perfection, and that's that you can't take your created 
 maps online. There's really no excuse for this. They've packed everything they could into this 
 game, including a map about Pictochat, and they couldn't add this one thing? Come on, that's a 
 ripoff. I understand that this is a minor flaw that doesn't subtract from the overall quality of 
 the game, but tens are only supposed to be given to games that are perfect, and this site no longer 
 has a 9.9 or 9.8.
  
  In any case, this is a kickass fighting game that you will definitely want to run out and pick 
 up. Cya. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haggard_korn
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is third in a series of amazing games, and is bye far the best. Brawl has 
 the most characters ever in a Smash Bros. game, some new comers such as Pit, Meta Knight, Diddy 
 Kong, and Snake.
  Some vets return as well, (my favorite) Link, Captain Falcon, Bowser, and of course... Mario. Also 
 many more stages, even some stages from the previous Smash Bros. Such as the Hyrule Temple, Corneria, 
 and Green Greens. Some new stages are Bridge of Eldin, Great Sea, and Shadow Moses Island. Multiplayer 
 for Brawl is the best in the series, especially with the online, but Nintendo is ahving problems 
 with the "play with anyone" mode, and it doesn't seem like they care to fix it. The "play with 
 friends" works just fine though, so if you have many friends who own Brawl, you should be just 
 fine. One of the most noticeable additions is the Sub Space Emissary, it's like the adventure mode 
 from Melee, but more in depth and way longer. A cool thing is that playing through the SSE will 
 unlock most of the characters for you. All in all Brawl is an amazing game, with hundreds of unlockables, 
 great single players, and great multiplayer. 
  
  ALSO: (the difficulty is up to you, you can choose from the game being easy up to ebing intense) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sajoranidem
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  When i tought Nintendos fotgot us i founded Nintendos ever best game, of course im talking about 
 SUPER SMASH BROS BRAWL.
  
  The best game today in the Nintendo Wii is a classic game and thats not a surprise, Nintendo always 
 put all the fire in the hole in their games but this time Nintendo made a great job.
  Congratulations nintendo and if you have this greatest game congratulation to you too.
  
  Link, 
 Zelda, Kirby, Fox, Falco, Captain Falcon, Peach and a lot of classc fighter in SUPER SMASH BROS 
 are back but this time they have the power of Nintendo wii, with s lot of scenaries, characters, 
 video styles, games styles, Wii fi, clubs, photos, trophies, stickers, and a lot ) and i mean A 
 LOT) OF fun are packed in this game so if you are ready to enjoy the real power of Wii, wat are 
 you waiting and buy a copy of SUPER SMASH BROS BRAWL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 11, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best I've ever played. I'm willing to admit that part of the reasoning 
 behind it is the nostalgia factor. However, even if you remove the nostalgia, its a pretty fun 
 game with some of the best graphics the Wii has seen so far.
  
  The graphics are fantastic, and are actually pretty realistic. This game brings up the same issue 
 Super Mario Galaxy brought up, I don't think I want any game including Mario or Kirby to look much 
 more realistic, or it just wouldn't feel right. There's some pretty good textures here, and a very 
 solid frame rate. I have never noticed any slowdown, not even in the game's craziest moments. The 
 graphics, while not the best you're going to see in gaming, are very solid, do their job, and are 
 some of the best the Wii offers.
  
  The soundtrack is far beyond what gamers are used to. It is massive. Not only is it massive, but 
 is awesome too. Most of the songs are reworked classics, that any gamer loves to hear. As for the 
 others, they're still nice to have for variety. A cool new feature is that you can select how often 
 certain songs play on each arena. The soundtrack is amazing, and has a pretty good chance at winning 
 that department here for Best of 2008.
  
  Now for the game play. As much as they have added to the graphics and soundtrack, they have added 
 even more to the game play. Not only do they have the awesome new arenas that change as you fight, 
 but they also included some of your old favorites from Melee. There's also way more characters 
 than before, and I am really glad they included Snake and Sonic, as they are both huge parts of 
 my gaming history. They revamped the single player completely. Now, not only can you play through 
 classic on various difficulties, but there's the new single player storyline, Subspace Emissary. 
 There's no speaking in Subspace, which I consider a good thing, and its filled with funny moments, 
 as well as cool epic ones. It lasts a good eight hours or so, and is surprisingly good for a party 
 and/or fighting game. Subspace has helped to evolve Brawl past a party/fighting game, and really 
 makes it a whole lot more fun to play single player than it was with Melee. When you're done with 
 Subspace, there's still classic mode, tournament, home run, multi man brawl, boss battles, coin 
 toss, and more. The multi player is as great as ever, and I think the super smash orb really adds 
 tot he game play, because everyone in the room is yelling at each other in panic and fighting to 
 get the final hit on it when it arrives. Plus all the super smash moves are pretty cool, well except 
 for Luigi's, I'm not really sure what to think when he does that.
  
  In short, this game will keep you entertained for hours and hours. Even if you get sick of it from 
 playing it too much, I promise that you'll come back to it eventually. This game has some serious 
 replay value. Forget about your harsh feelings towards the Wii, when you approach this game, just 
 have fun with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walladude2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is the killer-app for the Wii, and boy does it deliver. The game brings 
 back the method of fighting that were in the other Smash Bros. games, but definitely expands on 
 it. First of all, the character roster is bigger than ever, with 35 playable characters. Besides 
 the Brawl mode, however, there is a very extensive single-player mode as well, called the Subspace 
 Emissary. This mode is basically a very long platformer which attempts to combine a storyline of 
 good (a lot of the characters) vs. evil (the evil characters) . I found the Subspace Emissary to 
 be the best part of this game, bar-none. However, besides this mode, there are also two modes that 
 can be found in Melee and the original Smash Bros, Classic Mode and All-Star Mode. Besides the 
 main single-player mode, there is also an abundant amount of mini-games, like the Homerun Contest, 
 and collecting the large amount of trophies, songs, and other various items. All in all, you should 
 know this by now, but every Wii owner needs this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mugen_tha_dream
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  Damn gamespot! jus truined all my text i had it finished and it deleted everything cuz of a 404 
 error! well smash is to good to be rated and online is gorgeose, i can play wit my dawgs in another 
 state. My best friend just got it so i kicked his julio. I just thougt ichigo and R. Kelly would 
 be good characters. Wolf is BA and hes just about the only dude i use. Really there is no point 
 reviewing its game, whe nyou open the case angels sing. Ok maybe not but even so its perfect and 
 you can spend a lifetime earning unlockables. so me and my buds gonna smash it up and my bro good 
 to, not as good or maybe not even on the same level but good id good i guess. I hate the GS word 
 limitations its so annoying, if there wasnt a word limit i would put
  its Brawl, Nuff said
  but that aint the case so ya know what i'll just fill it up with spaces if that even counts 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesus_knight
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 10:59 pm PT
Review:  One of the most eagerly expected games from all time was finally released, and I am sure many of 
 you are wondering whether or not it was worth the long wait, well, the answer is very simple, it 
 was worth the long wait. The amount of content that you'll find in super smash bros brawl bigger 
 than what you'd expect, there are many play modes, one of the most interesting modes is the "subspace 
 emissary" where as the story develops (full motion videos included) you get to play with all characters 
 from the game, the old story classic mode is still here also there are many other modes to play 
 alone or with your friends. You can collect hundreds of 3-d trophies from different Nintendo franchises 
 (metroid, Mario bros, the legend of Zelda, pokemon etc.) and hundreds of different stickers based 
 on games from Nintendo, and franchises like sonic and metal gear; also you can unlock new music 
 that you can use in the arenas, as if all of that wasn't enough you can even unlock demos from 
 old Nintendo franchises like Zelda, metroid, ice climbers etc. I will put it on a few words you 
 will spend hours and hours trying to collect all the goodies from the game 
  
  In terms of gameplay it is almost identical to what you expect from a super smash bros game (if 
 you have played a super smash bros game that is) which means that it is a lot of fun to play, all 
 you need to do is hit your opponent until they are weak enough and send them flying out of the 
 stage by a single blow. The roster of characters is one of the most crazy rosters you will ever 
 find in any fighter game, and even so, the game feels extremely balanced, it doesn't matter what 
 character you selected you can take down any other character as long as you know how to use your 
 character.
  
  One of the best additions to the super smash bros franchise is the online play, now, finally you 
 can play online against other players and yes, you can play against unknown people so you are not 
 limited to play only with your online friends.
  
  Graphics are top-notch, the arenas are colorful, and feel alive, that's because there is always 
 movement in them, for example in the Zelda wind waker arena you get to play in two moving ships 
 in the middle of the sea, in the metal gear stage you get attacked by a metal gear from time to 
 time. The characters from the game are extremely detailed and if you know the old characters from 
 super smash bros you will quickly notice the graphic update they received from the previous game.
 
  
  The music is probably the best you will find from Nintendo, and there's no other Nintendo game 
 with better music than super smash bros brawl, more than 100 tracks were put in this game I am 
 sure some of the tracks will bring you nostalgia if you have played Nintendo games through the 
 years, some of the remixes from old songs like donkey kong country 2 bramble blast are worth mentioning 
 since they are excellent.
  
  So there it is, the only requirement you need to fulfill in order to enjoy this game is love having 
 fun with videogames and since I think all gamers do then you should buy this game, it won't disappoint 
 you
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokemoniac
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  The game makes it's third and (it makes me wanna cry) final appearence.
  It's awesome. Just, plain, awesome. Sonic The Hedgehog and Solid Snake appear. Awesome fighters. Final 
 smashes. Cool stages. If THAT isn't sayin' something, I don't know what is.
  
  The game's object is to KO your opponent. There is a mode called "The Subspace Emissery", but after 
 you complete it, the game, sad to say, is sort of pointless. But the Subspace Emmissery is awesome. The 
 object of that is to defend the world  complete each level by 
 getting to the end or beating a boss. Bosses are like the Master Hand; Because they too have (I guess 
 you could call it) stamina. The last level consists of finding "subspace" versions of the fighters. Then 
 comes the pointlessness.
  
  Overall, I would recommend it if it killed me with lots of pain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Newmanfan14
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is THE BEST games Nintendo has ever created!!! I was never a big fan of 
 the Smash Bros. series, but after looking at this game, it is AMAZING!!!! I'm trying not to sound 
 like it's best thing since sliced bread, but I'm just overexcited about this game. The graphics 
 are amazing. Everything is done perfectly right down to the stiching in Mario's overalls to the 
 scales on Bowser. The soundtrack on this game is good. It's always good to have different music 
 for the levels. The Sub Space Emmissary is Very nice. I'm struggling with the stadium mode, but 
 it seems alright. The classic brawl is good for collecting trophies, and a chance to beat and unlock 
 characters! And with the addition of Snake and Sonic, any fan of any video game will love this.
 
  
  There are no flaws in this game, so my rating for this is a perfect 10!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diiscubecolorbo
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  best game ever. nothing has ever been more entertaining. its full of good solid solo player and 
 great online and offline multilayer! the music is also amazing there are 314 songs and all are 
 amazing in their own way. there are also100s of trophies to collect. 
  
  the game offers a lot of multi player action with all 35 available characters and 41 stages the 
 possiblitiys are endless. This game unlike other smash bros titles focuses on solo player more 
 with the games amazing adventure Subspace emissary. the long adventer is were all the characters 
 in the game come to gether and fight agianst the evil tabuu who seems to be trying to take over 
 everything.. the game is rather complicated its now very easy you need alot of skill if you want 
 to be good at this game. those wii sports players only and wario ware experts might have a hard 
 time because of the games non wii like use and button smashing. this game over all is amazingyou 
 cant just get up and stop playing (unless u have the attention spand of a baby) . If you own a wii 
 you have S S B B!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiplay1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  It's is amazingly tough to believe that it has been around half a decade since the last installment 
 of Super Smash Bros debuted. It is also extremly tough when you watch a Press Confrence and the 
 game the announced was delayed 3 months when they guarenteed an exact date. Thats right, the game 
 was announced at the Nintendo E3 2007 Press Confrence by Reggie himself, and since then, it's been 
 such a huge buzz. Unfortunatly, it was delayed for more than three months, but now that it's out, 
 every Wii owner is ready to get a copy of Super Smash Bros Brawl.
  
  This game comes close to what it says, "The Brawl to end them all." The objective during a Brawl 
 is to knock your opponent (s) out of the park. Your damage is measured in percentage. The higher 
 it is, the easier it is for you to get knocked out of the park. (The percentage goes up to a 999% 
 max.) So if you've ever wondered which brother was better out of Mario and Luigi, this is the game 
 where you can figure that out (unless Kirby comes with it's final smash) .
  
  Now let me explain the controls. To attack, press... wait. Figure it out on your own. No really. 
 The game allows you to customize your controls however you want to. If that wasn't enough for you, 
 there are four different controling methods. You can use the Wii remote by itself held horizontally, 
 the Wii remote and nunchuck, the Classic Controller, or just don't beat the classics this time 
 and use a Nintendo GameCube controller.
  
  There are also many other ways to customize Super Smash Bros Brawl. For one on Brawl, you can create 
 your own custom levels and actually play on them when brawling with other people. Ah hem... with 
 other people in the area. The only problem is that you cannot play your custom levels online with 
 other people.
  
  The character roster is packed and suprisingly overall balanced. There are a ton of characters, 
 some of which have to be unlocked by completing certain tasks. The characters of course have a 
 variety of moves, one of which includes a final smash. You attack a smash ball and if you're the 
 one to finish it off, then you get the final smash. You simply press the special button and then 
 the character will do his/her final smash. Every character has a different final smash exept for 
 the characters from Star Fox.
  
  There are a ton of different stages in Super Smash Bros Brawl. There are about, maybe more than 
 20 stages. If that wasn't enough, there are also around 8 unlockable stages plus your own custom 
 stages. The places to brawl are endless.
  
  Do you have more than 4 people? Say maybe, up to 32? Super Smash Bros Brawl allows you to create 
 your own tourney. Up to 32 can participate so it's the real deal this time. You can also have rotation 
 games up to 16 people, where basically, you rotate. You can even choose who gets out.
  
  But you don't have to have the house full of people to brawl with other people. For the first time 
 in the series, there is online play! Yah! This time, there is no friend code hassle, sort of. As 
 in if you want to brawl with other people and actually chat with them, you need their friend code. 
 But don't worry, you can just plain ol' Brawl with or without friend codes. Not only can you Brawl, 
 but you can watch other people Brawl. That not may sound good, but if you are in the gambling mood, 
 you can bet on who wins, up to 100 coins. But you will find the best experience using friend codes.
 
  
  What if you are all by yourslef? Well there are quite some Solo options. One of them for those 
 of you who want to experiment with your player is Training. You choose your character and then 
 a stage, and then there's you and the computer player. Wait, why is he not moving? Well because 
 the default is that the computer doesn't do anything so that you can experiment with your moves. 
 Simply put, you can customize everything that happens. Training is probably best for first time 
 players. There are also events where you'll be on a stage and you will have to complete a certain 
 task on that stage to defeat it. It doesn't end there as there is also the classic, just defeat 
 enemys to move on. Lastly, there is a stadium mode where you can participate in a home-run contest 
 to hit the bag as hard as possible, go through an obstacle course and attempt to destroy the targets 
 as quick as possiblw, or face off against many enemies in multiman brawl.
  
  There is also one more thing. Most every game deserves a story mode, and that doesn't change with 
 Super Smash Bros Brawl. The game's form of story mode is the Subspace Emissary, which is still 
 a side scroller. Pretty much all the characters from Super Smash Bros Brawl appear in this mode 
 at home, like Donkey Kong in the jungle, or Meta Knight in his giant ship. The Subspace Emissary 
 is a very long adventure mode, which some of it's components could have been done without. All 
 in all, this is a new addition and experience for the Super Smash Bros series. It should take you 
 somewhere between 8 and 20 hours to complete the Subspace Emissary. But unlike everything else 
 in Super Smash Bros Brawl, the Adventure mode allows you to cooperate with another player.
  
  It hasn't been that long since Nintendo's original successor, Super Mario Galaxy and Nintendo 
 is still keeping the action with Super Smash Bros Brawl. Not only does this game have a great original 
 soundtrack with tracks from all over Nintendo titles, but it has amazing graphics along with great 
 animations and great looking characters. This game easily makes the Nintendo Wii a huge success. 
 Every game will always come that everyone wants, some of which are good and some of which are bad 
 and some are just plain old so last year, but this game is a good game that everyone wants where 
 you get way more than your moneys worth and that you can actually take to partys and everyone will 
 want to play it. Super Smash Bros Brawl is indeed a huge mark for Nintendo for the past and the 
 future that will keep everyone playing for the years coming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: countzachula
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Really a great addition to the smash bros series. the gameplay has greatly improved, and the character 
 balance is impressive as well (although Ike's smash moves need a slight nerf) .
  
  The only problem with the game is the wifi gameplay. Its extremely limited and primitive in general. 
 There are two modes, random people and friends, and each one is flawed. 
  
  If you choose to play vs. random people, everyone must remain anonymous and you are limited to 
 only 2 min time battles (wtf NO STOCK?! -- with time battles you get a bunch of nonsense Ike noobs 
 just going around kill stealing) , either free for all (ffa) or random 2v2. This means even if you 
 have a friend playing with you on your wii, you and him cannot play vs. a random second team of 
 friends; the team battle option is only you with a random person vs. a second team of randomly 
 selected people. I think the settings and level for the match are based randomly on one of the 
 player's settings. When you are playing ffa vs. random people, nintendo will populate the match 
 with COMPUTER OPPONENTS to fill it out to 4 player. Why the hell nintendo would think anyone would 
 rather play against computer opponents over playing a 1v1 or a 1v1v1 is beyond me. 
  
  Then there is friends mode, where you can play against people you have had prior contact with. 
 The problem with friends mode is that you have no way of communicating with your friends while 
 playing the game. First of all, you have to each manually add each other's friend code to be able 
 to play each other. Then, one person has to create a room, and people from his friends roster have 
 to check to see if there is an available room, and then join the room. So basically, this entails 
 contacting your friend with another method, like by phone or text or online, and setting up each 
 match. One positive thing about friends games is that you can play with friends who are playing 
 with you on your wii; however, unless you have called or otherwise contacted the persons you want 
 to play against, you will just have to sit and wait in an open room till one of your friends happens 
 to check if any of their friends happen to be hosting an open room at that time.
  
  Nintendo has the capability of updating the online play of the game, and I really hope they do. 
 They can add a SSBB channel, which players can use to set up matches. Or they could allow ingame 
 messaging of friends who are on at the same time as you. Basically, the current state of SSBB wifi 
 is so primitive, its like nintendo thinks this is the first online game ever invented. Nintendo 
 needs to learn a lesson or two from X-Box live and the way microsoft handles online gaming, because 
 what nintendo is doing now is far too limited. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swordknigh7
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl is like a dream come true to Wii Nintendo fans. Definitely worth the wait, 
 this game has it all. Better graphics? Check. More unique and new characters? Check. New stages 
 and a way to make your own? Check. I can go on and on. This game embraces players of all skill 
 levels, from the easy mode for beginners to the grueling intense mode for those hardcore players. 
 The Subspace Emissary, while sometimes nonsensical, improves immeasurably upon the half-done Adventure 
 mode in Melee. The tournament options rule, as I have been fortunate enough to get into the semifinals 
 in a tournament of sixteen (I'm not a sore loser, but two of my deaths were glitches) . Every game 
 made by a human being will always have its faults, and Brawl, while amazing, was made by humans 
 also (even if it doesn't seem it was) . The stage editor could've used some more parts and backgrounds. 
 The Nintendo servers are usually too full for anonymous play, though this is not a game fault. 
 Other than that, this game is the best multi-player game on the Wii, period. I give it 10/10 for 
 being so awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowman6251
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is virtually flawless. 35 characters, tons of levels PLUS the ability to make your own. 
 You can take screen shots from pause. You can take replays to remember awesome achievements and 
 then take screen shots of the replays. There are hundreds of trophies and stickers to collect (and 
 if you're like me you need to get them all) . There's challenges which tells you to do something 
 in exchange for a certain trophy, level, song, etc (and some of them are NOT easy making even the 
 best SSB players feel challenged) . Oh and music. You decide what songs you want to play on levels 
 and how often. 
  
  You can edit your control scheme so that everyone can feel comfortable. You can demo old games 
 available on the VC (they convinced me to buy kirby) . There are tons of modes to play in both multiplayer 
 and solo. Oh and at long last you can play online (even if it is a bit laggy) . Time to see if you're 
 really as good as you thought you were eh?
  
  All the characters are balanced well and there's so many that everyone is bound to find someone. 
 You can play with time, lives, items, no items, coins, and so on. Everyone can find something to 
 love here (if not everything) . Oh not to mention level 9's can actually be somewhat challenging 
 now.
  
  I'd like to give this game a 9.9. -.1 for 3 reasons. Online lags to the point where it can hinder 
 play and be very annoying (sometimes, not always) . No more Roy. No game can be better than OOT 
 which gets a 10.
  
  It's SSB how could you POSSIBLY go wrong? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toritofine
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  I used to own the other two SSB. They were great, and real classics. Unfortunately, i don't have 
 a wii, so the only way i could play SSBB was with one of my friends who was lucky enough to find 
 one on the shelves.
  I was really excited. And iv'e got to say, the content is magnificent.
  
  So the good points:
 
  
  -All those unlockables! characters, game modes, stages, stickers, songs, trophies... surely, to 
 have all that you will need at least a month if you play it all days.
  
  -The SSE! Finally, a story mode! I liked it a little bit, though. I found out it was a bit annoying. 
 But i liked that almost every character comes out there. Well developed story anyway (just well)
 
  
  -Tons of characters. Well balanced, strong ones, fast ones, etc. Some of them were a bit annoying, 
 but all in all, the roster is awesome.
  
  -New character design. For example, Fox and Falco look much better.
  
  -Nice stages. Much better 
 than the melee ones, were i only liked 4 or 5 only. Here in brawl, i only dislike 2 or 3.
  
  -Final smashes (+1 cool)
  
  -Graphics. Everything looks so cool. Looks at samus aran's 
 power suit shine like a mirror!!
  
  -Multiplayer gaming now not only with your pals in your house (wich kicks ass always) but now gaming 
 with the wifi connection. Oh, and customization, too.
  
  That was good. Yeaah, but the bad thing was gameplay. It plays the same, but it feels really different. 
 For example, my character is Falco, and i loved the way he was balanced in melee. But in brawl.. 
 alright, he jumps a lot, but he does it really slow, and falls really slow too, making my effectiveness 
 of a meteor smash in midair (down A) really low. Anyway, here we go: bad points.
  
  -Game speed. They slowed it down. It was much better in melee.
  
  -Annoying attack sounds. 
 Like, when u hit A repeatedly and you dont hit anything... you get the point.
  
  -Items are cool, but they can turn they tide of the battle in a massive way. So, if i were you, 
 i'd fight without items, leaving you and your skills only. I'd leave, maybe, the smash ball, so 
 it would pop out once in a while, just to have more fun.
  
  -Missing characters. Mewtwo, Roy, anyone? And i would have liked to see peppy, or slippy, and maybe 
 knuckles or at least shadow. But i guess that's a lot to ask.
  
  -All in all, gameplay didn't FEEL right for me. 
  
  
  I'm a big fan of SSB, and i like to 
 play it, even brawl, with all those fails. Every time i play it, i have fun, and i used to be the 
 best of my group of friends. Nobody would beat me. But that was in the melee days. I didnt find 
 myself in brawl.
  
  Great game. No doubt it will be written in the videogame history as the craziest fighting game 
 ever made.
  
  Do yourself a favor and play this game. Forget about the abysmal critics: most of them are nintendo 
 haters. Just have fun.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LeozinhoGaiato
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl simplesmente  o melhor jogo feito pro Wii desde Super Mario Galaxy!!! Os 
 modos de jogo so simplesmente fodas, e o Subspace Emisary  D+... O melhor personagem que eu achei 
 at agora o melhor  o Link, e eu acho isso desde os outros Smash Bros anteriores, ele  muito 
 bem balanceado, naum vejo nenhum defeito na jogabilidade com ele, dei varia surras no Ganondorf 
 em Hyrule Castle (que por sinal  estgio de Melee, achei massa terem posto ele em Brawl) .
  
   isso a joguem Smash Bros Brawl a valer e aproveitem... ou faa como eu... torrem o Wii de 
 tanto jogar!!! HAHAHAHAHAHA!!! Tive que parar antes que minha mulher quisesse usar ele pra fazer 
 a comida aki de casa!!! HAHAHAHAHAHA
  
  Vlw!!!
  
  F
  u
  i
  
  
  Leonardo de Oliveira Corra. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spidey608
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Do I even need to do a review on this game? Nope. However, I feel like singing the praises of Brawl 
 just like everyone else does. This game is amazing. Let's start with solo play.
  Solo: On solo, this game is pretty great, not nearly as great as the multiplayer, but it's about 
 as good as your gonna get for a fighter solo. You go on various missions finishing a pretty good 
 storyline and unlock characters along that way.
  Multiplayer: This is where Brawl shines people. You will have hours of fun with your friends playing 
 Brawl, and thank to online play, that fun doesn't have to end when your home alone.
  Character selection: This game a has a wide variety of characters to choose from, they have come 
 far and wide to be in Brawl, such as Snake in his box. My only request would be that they add some 
 Shonen Jump characters, although maybe they would be too overpowered for the rest of the game. 
 If you are looking to play a game like this with some shonen jump character from DBZ, Naruto, Bleach 
 or any of the other fine Jump characters, take a look at Battle Stadium D. O. N. for different systems 
 or Jump: Ultimate Stars for the Nintendo DS. Moving on, all in all I would say the character selection 
 is pretty amazing and honestly, there's no way to satisfy everyone, so there will always be some 
 characters left out that fans want.
  Graphics: Well this game is right on par with the rest of the Wii graphics so you won't be seeing 
 anything incredible or in HD, but it's all really great.
  Sound: The sounds of this game are great. Adding sound to the Wiimote for this game was a solid 
 choice, every now and then you hear something from you character that most likely only you hear 
 since it didn't come through the TV.
  Overall: Great game, one of the best for the Wii. If you liked the others, buy a Wii for this one, 
 if you haven't played them, get this if and when you get a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroid1340
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl is even better than you could imagine. With 35 five playable characters 
 and over 40 stages there is alot to do. It is like Melee but even better if that is possible. 
 
  
  For the first time it has a full single player mode. There are bosses to fight and stages to explore. 
 There is still Classic and Allstar modes except allstar is 2 player. 
  
  Multiplayer matches are better than ever. There are more items including assist trophies and wonderful 
 smash balls. All the characters are mostly the same aside from final smashes and a few changed moves. The 
 stages are more creative than in Melee. You'll be fighting in Pictochat and in the middle of Warioware 
 microgames. There are also some stages taken directly from retro Nintendo arcade games like Donkey 
 Kong and Mario Bros.
  
  The stage builder is fun to use to build original stages or try to make make Melee stages. I don't 
 understand why so many people complain that the stage builder is not any good. They're just dumb.
 
  
  There are more trophies to collect and stickers too. The coin launcher is better than the coin 
 lottery which taught young children to gamble away their hard earned money. You can also pose your 
 trophies for pictures.
  
  If you own a Wii buy this game. If you don't own a Wii buy it anyway. It is worth every cent you 
 pay. -Goodbye and Good riddens!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Symphonycometh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  First thing first. The composers I care about:
  
  Motoi Sakuraba:
  
  Star Ocean series, Valkyrie Profile series, Eternal Sonata, Tales of Symphonia, and Baiten Kaitos.
 
  
  Koji Kondo: 
  
  Zelda series.
  
  Yoko Shimomura:
  
  Kingdom Hearts. (Not the opening and endings.)
  
  Nobuo Uematsu:
  
  Final Fantasy 1-11, 
 Blue Dragon, Lost Odyssey.
  
  
  Over 150 songs with signature styles. (Sakuraba's guitar and synth usage is obvious the moment 
 you hear it. He even had a riff that sounded EXACTLY like Star Ocean 3's final boss song.) That's 
 a good thing. Now that I finally got that out of the way, let's talk gameplay.
  
  This game seems to be trying to beat Star Ocean 3 in terms of unlockables, and it fights hard. 
 So many options and so many modes will leave you gaming for hours on end.... and hours.... and hours. 
 The main mode, Subspace Emmisary is about 10 hours long and can be done with Co-op. It brings the 
 classic platforming feel from the Kirby days on the Super Nintendo with oversized bosses to boot. 
 The classic is basically like the other two games and the event mode gurantees you several hours 
 of play right there.
  
  For once I don't mind the items since all the new ones are such a sweet to be had, and the smashballs 
 only add to your planning. You have all too many characters to collect and most of them not cloning 
 one another.
  
  It's near perfection is ruined thanks to a few key things:
  
  
  1) Air dodging. That little mechanic in Melee was insanely fun and they took it out. When you dodge 
 in the air now, it is now a barely noticable dodge that doesn't shift your body in the least sense.
 
  
  2) Slowed down. There was speed when Melee was just appealing to the hardcore gamers. Now that 
 casuals came in, that sense of speed was cut out so your eyes can be at ease and untensed a bit 
 more, sadly. 
  
  3) Online. Of course the online. -_- No matches YET! Nintendo really didn't know what they were 
 doing when they added online.
  
  
  This is good to play for a few days, but aside from that.... grab that 360 or PS3.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gpig07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  Wow. This game has lots to do. Theres am amazing single player campaign, classic mode, and many 
 more unlockables. But what makes this game shine is its multiplayer. You can play online or with 
 up to four friends! Stop reading this review, go buy it! The only problem is that the early wiis 
 may not be able to read the multi-layer disk so you might have to send it back in to nintendo for 
 it to be fixed. Also another problem is some of the characters are unbalanced. Like jiggilypuff 
 and luigi are bad while ike and bowser are overpowered. Also it may take a while to find a character 
 right for you, and to master it. Overall its very well worth it.
  
  If your like me and you prefer to have fun than to always have to beat everyone, you'll probably 
 be able to get alot more fun out of this game. Also I have to give this game some credit for really 
 good graphics. Also this game runs on the havok physics engine, the same the are using for popular 
 games such as pain, halo 3, and many more upcoming ones as well. Overall I give this game a 9.5, 
 very few flaws, and the only flaws are minor. Worth every penny, and you'll most likely be playing 
 this game five years from now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: use_da_schwartz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  On a side note, the Smash Kingdom flash movies on Newgrounds are also awesome. 
  
  Gameplay: 30/30 Even with some of its flaws this game still has everything a Super Smash Bros. 
 game needs: Fast-paced multiplayer awesomeness! There's more of it since some of the stuff that 
 used to be only for one player can now be co-op such as Adventure Mode/Subspace Emissary, Multi-Man 
 Brawl, and the Home-run  And a really good thing is that there aren't 
 many clone characters. Yes, they lied to us with Captain Falcon and Ganondorf, but that's not so 
 bad (No one's ever gonna use Ganon anyway cause he kinda sucks) . There are now 35 characters, in 
 which most of them don't suck. There's more to do than ever before. For God's sake, you can go 
 ONLINE!!! OMG!!!!!11111 WHAT A CONCEPT!!!! Yes, it's nerfed by the FCs, but hey, it's a start. 
 I really hope to God that they learn from this and stop using freakin FCs.
  
  By the way, this is gonna be a pretty long gameplay review, so be ready for a long read. That is, 
 if you planned on reading this in the first place.
  
  The custom editor is great, too. I've made over 30 original stages. It is very easy to work with, 
 and once you have all the items, (only complaint about the editor is that you don't start out with 
 everything) it may not seem like much more, but the few extra items do make a difference. Especially 
 the wheel. You'll probably find yourself using that a lot.
  
  One of my favorite things that they changed is the trophy game. Not that the lottery was horrible 
 in Melee, but compared to the coin launcher, it is just downright awful. The coin launcher is like 
 one of those things that you find at arcades where you slip a token into the slot and then you 
 get to direct where it goes, except possible to win at. I don't know about you, but I suck at those 
 things. Back on topic, this is a fun game that may not be as quick as the lottery, but well worth 
 it because you're actually playing a game to get a trophy instead of wasting 20 coins to hopefully 
 get a new trophy.
  
  Solo/Co-op:
  
  Classic: They really improved this one. This is definitely the best that classic has ever been. 
 The battles are more random than ever, and that stupid Race to the Finish is gone. You never know 
 when it's gonna be a regular battle, team battle, giant battle, or metal battle. The only things 
 that you will know are when the target tests are, how many metal battles there always are (1) , 
 when you face 3 other people in a free-for-all, and when you face the Master Hand and (maybe) Crazy 
 Hand. My real only complaint (nothing huge) is that sometimes I get stuck by myself in a giant 
 battle, which I find retarded. That's it, though.
  
  Adventure/SSE: Now this is definitely an improvement over Melee's Advenure Mode. While that was 
 a start, it wasn't all that great. I'm not saying SSE is perfect, because it certainly isn't. But 
 what really made SSE was it's length, story (though lame) , boss battles, and the ability to play 
 with another person. I guess another awesome thing about it is that it's really easy to get many 
 of the hidden characters through it. The only 3 I didn't get were Wolf, Toon Link, and Jigglypuff, 
 and I talked with a good amount of people who didn't get those same 3 characters. My big complaint 
 about this one is that it's just too repetitive. The levels are basically the same levels with 
 different backgrounds. The Great Maze is a great level, though, and it wouldn't be without the 
 map you can use to guide you. The bosses, for the most part, are a lot of fun. Tabuu is really 
 hard at first, but once you see all his moves, you'll find that a good amount of them are actually 
 pretty easy to avoid.
  
  All-Star: This is one aspect that I think actually got worse with the transition to Brawl. Even 
 though you can play with 2 players, my big complaint about this one is that it's not as random 
 as it was in Melee. In Melee you faced 1 character or teams of 2-3 characters, and the order was 
 always random except for the last battle, which was 25 G&Ws. I don't mind the fact that now, we 
 can face a team of 4 (fighting 2 at a time) , but throw in the randomness with 35 G&Ws in there 
 to end it. It's still fun, and 2-player's a blast, but it definitely should've stuck to the Melee 
 All-Star formula.
  
  Events: There's really not much to say about this one. It's the same as in Melee, but this time, 
 there are only 41 single player events. To make up for that, though, there are 21 co-op events. 
 Obviously that totals 62, which is 11 more than Melee. Not bad. Overall, Events this time around 
 are much better than they were in Melee. The final events in both co-op and single player offer 
 a great challenge for those willing to take it. Both were really hard and I've still only beaten 
 them on easy. But a good thing that they did was NOT making you beat either on hard to get a reward. 
 
  
  Stadium: The main kicker in this one is that all the events in this are now co-opable. That's awesome 
 and makes for a sweet stadium experience. All except for Break the Targets.
  
  Break the Targets: 2-player can make it easier to break the targets in a certain amount of time 
 (which you have to do in every level to complete a challenge) , but what happened to every character 
 having an individual level? Even the original SSB had this. While Break the Targets was never my 
 favorite part of the game, I liked it because of the different stages that everyone had. Here's 
 what should've happened. Give every individual character their own Break the Targets, bring back 
 either Snag the Trophies or Board the Platforms in Classic Mode, and for CO-OP Break the Targets 
 make levels 1-5. Consequently, I guess if Board the Platforms was added to Classic, it probably 
 would have to have been added to the Stadium as well. That probably would've made the game better 
 than it already is. This is really the only game in the Stadium I have major complaints about. 
 
  
  Home-run Contest: This is one thing that doesn't seem like co-op would be too much fun on, but 
 believe me, it does make this all the better. What also makes this better is the fact that EVERYONE 
 can hit the sandbag at least 1300 feet. Everyone except Lucario, that is. But anyway, Home-run 
 Contest was made so much better because of the force-field put around the starting platform which 
 actually made Ganondorf (so he has a use after all) and Bowser my 2 best characters for it. You 
 can go online with a friend of yours, but I really can't see myself doing that. It's so much more 
 fun when the friend is in your living room and your playing on the same console. Even so, Home-run 
 Contest has never been better.
  
  Multi-Man-Brawl: This time around the Multi-Man battles are much harder than they were in Melee. 
 I could only kill 10 people on Cruel Brawl with a strategy told to me by my friend who got it off 
 of a video from YouTube (God! It's so useful!) . I still haven't done the 15-minute Brawl, but the 
 others are still pretty easy. This can go online too, and it's probably a better online experience 
 than the Home-run Contest online, but I still think I'd rather play this one at home with a friend. 
 But still, it's just as good as it's ever been. 
  
  Boss Battles: This is fun. I mean this is really fun. You face bosses from both Classic and the 
 SSE and go right through them as if you were playing All-Star. My only real complaint (again) is 
 the fact that you can't continue. How come you can beat All-Star on Intense with 800 continues 
 and get an award, but not be allowed to beat Boss Battles on Intense with any continues? Even Boss 
 Battles on Hard is really hard for me. However, this is how I got Wolf, one of my favorite characters 
 in the game, so thank you, Boss Battles.
  
  Training: There's no reason for me to go into this. It's just training. It's as good as it always 
 has been. End of story. On a side note, one thing I love doing is getting the Superspicy Curry 
 and pinning Bowser against the wall and getting an instant 155 hit combo (good strategy for the 
 challenge that requires you to get 400 total hits in max combos on training) . I just felt like 
 saying that.
  
  Group:
  
  Brawl: The multiplayer aspect of SSB improved with Melee and improved more with Brawl. Is the gameplay 
 nearly the same as it was in Melee? The answer is yes. But there are more characters to choose 
 from and less of said characters that are clones. Yes, Ganon is a clone of C. Falcon, and Toon 
 Link is pretty much a clone of Link, but the 3 Star Fox characters aren't really clones of each 
 other, and Mario & Luigi are MAYBE half-clones or something like that. That's a major improvement 
 over Melee considering how many clones there were. Also, there are more stages to choose from, 
 and we have the ability to make our own. The only bad parts about Brawl are that the custom stages 
 can't be used in online play and online play with anyone is limited to one kind of match, but that's 
 not so bad considering we never had a custom editor or online play in Melee (Actually I remember 
 seeing someone do some really complicated stuff to let them go online with Melee. I wouldn't do 
 that though. Not many people did that anyway.) . With more characters, maps, the ability to make 
 your own maps, and online play, multiplayer in SSB has never been better.
  
  Special Brawl: In Melee you had the opportunity to change one aspect of a battle. In Brawl, you 
 can mix and match the changing of these aspects. For example, in Melee, you could either have a 
 Giant Melee, an Invisible Melee, or a Lightning Melee, while you can mix all of those changes among 
 others in Brawl. Another aspect that's really awesome is that not only can you change how much 
 HP you start out with in Stamina, but you can have up to 300 HP. That's awesome. One thing that 
 disappointed me was the fact that you only started out with 150 HP in Melee, and that was all you 
 could do. I'm really glad they changed this. Special battles have never been better.
  
  Rotation & Tourney: I decided to put these two together because there's nothing really groundbreaking 
 about them. Tourney wasn't so great in Melee, but it wasn't bad, and rotation is just something 
 for those who like to be a little more organized in their rotations when more than 4 people do 
 play. While the makers did perfect these aspects, there's nothing special about them. They're just 
 there incase you need them or just if you want to use them.
  
  There's really not much more to say here. The level editor is awesome. Taking short videos and 
 snapshots is fun if you're into that sort of thing. The coin launcher is a great way to get trophies. 
 That's really about it.
  
  By the way, if you're wondering why I gave gameplay a 30/30 even with all of Brawl's flaws, then 
 I'll tell you. It's because Brawl kept all of the stuff that made Melee awesome and just added 
 more to it. Sure, the Brawls may be slower than they were in Melee, but that doesn't really take 
 away the fundoes it?
  
  Graphics: 13.5/15 While the visuals are vastly improved over Melee, I don't think the smoothness 
 is ever going to be perfected. It's very difficult in a game like Brawl. There are still the merging 
 issues (see my Melee review) among other things, but the visuals are definitely among the best 
 the Wii has to offer.
  
  Sound: 10/10 BEST SOUNDTRACK EVER!!!!! I know this makes me sound like a maniac fanboy, but I kid 
 you not, this has some of the greatest songs and remixes of classic Nintendo songs. You do also 
 get some of the original songs like the DKC Stage Selection theme and the Green Hill Zone theme 
 song. I (among many others) was listening to the soundtrack before the game came out, and I just 
 couldn't wait to put these songs into my custom stages. They're awesome.
  
  Value: 15/15 Same story as Melee. The single-player stuff will keep you happy for a good 15-20 
 hours (depending upon whether or not you want to do all the challenges and/or play all of the single 
 player games) . The multiplayer will keep you going for a long time though. With the custom stage 
 builder added, there's so much more you can do as far as Brawling goes. I will say, though, that 
 online play really didn't help that much. The problem was that you couldn't get the same benefits 
 from playing with anyone that you could with friends. If you could play with anyone and either 
 not have to use FCs to make them friends or get the same benefits as playing with friends, then 
 online play would've been so much better. But again, maybe that's something to look forward to 
 for the next SSB.
  
  Tilt: 27/30 One thing I've been hearing recently is that Brawl is just like Melee and that other 
 than the Stage Editor and online play, nothing much has changed and that it's best to not waste 
 your money. While I can understand that point of view, what I will say is that Brawl is definitely 
 better than Melee. But the fact that it was more revolutionary than Melee is indeed questionable.
 
  
  Overall: 95.5/100 = 9.55/10 = 9.5/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pupbarker
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2008 5:21 am PT
Review:  People had to wait quite a while for this great game and now its out. Now Super Smash Bros. Has 
 improved itself without ruining the classic style. With multiple and amazing modes, characters, 
 stages, graphics, unlockables, and story mode, there is no reason why not to buy if you have a 
 Wii.
  
  This simple yet amazing controles make it so that anyone new, old, young, or veteran, can play 
 this game with no problem except strategy. Smash bros has always been the simple two button attack, 
 one for standard and one for special. the multiplayer has never been changed from the simple bash 
 them off the screen style. with the 2d fight style of a 3d game.
  
  One player mode was never perfect for when your alone until now. Now you have the timeless classic 
 fight till the master hand comes, or event mode where you or even a partner work on specialized 
 matches to fill a kill quota, survive for how long, beat this guy, or only can harm with such standards.
 
  
  Now the story mode is the biggest highlight of the game for most people, along with online mutiplayer, 
 because of big and well made it is. The story will start you out pretty baisic but with some challenge. 
 Whats interesting about the levels in this compared to most fighting game story modes is the stray 
 away from fight after fight is the fact that its more of a platformer. I wont tell you what happens 
 in the story but you may be suprized.
  
  while you may get tired of playing the same ruled matches and stages all the time for the vs. mode 
 two new features have made their way in, customized brawl where you alter sizes, equipment, and 
 more there is also a create a stage with unlockable parts to make possablities nearly endless.
 
  
  Overall this game is worth every penny you pay and you'll be playing it even when the sequal comes. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcanine_88
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 25, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Well, this review has spoilers. So if you've played the game or don't care about spoilers then 
 this review is safe for your eyes.
  
  
  Gameplay:
  The Gameplay in Brawl is as we all know and love from the past Super Smash Bros games. But the 
 speed of Brawl is just a tad slower then what you can find in Melee. But if you're like me then 
 you've played the series since the first Super Smash Bros and you'll know that SSB is really slow. 
 So what you'll find in Brawl is in the middle of the two games (closer to Melee then it is SSB) . 
 Personally, I like the feel of Brawl the best. The speed is just right, not too fast, not too slow.
 
  I can't really say much on the gameplay because if you've played any other SSB game you'll know 
 what's going on in the game. If you haven't well it'll take 5 minutes to get used to the controls 
 and you'll be ready to get online. But just don't think it takes 5 minutes to get good at the game, 
 because there is some depth to the gameplay and you can get really good at the game (no different 
 then any other fighter) . So it's not a button masher as some people might say.
  
  
  Subspace Emissary:
  I just got to ask one question about the Subspace Emissary (SSE) Why do 
 people hate it? I know, it's all about taste and such. But this game mode is so much better then 
 Adventure Mode on Melee, and this mode brings back so many old memories of days when I played Super 
 Mario World, or Donkey Kong Country, or other games like it. Ok, so it's not the best thing since 
 sliced bread, and I'm sure they could have made it better (maybe) but what's there to hate? It's 
 a nice single player (or co-op) story mode that makes the game better. I personally like it and 
 really glad they added it. I had lots of fun finding all the paths, watching the great (and a lot 
 of times funny) cutscenes, playing all the different characters, and so on and so on. I think it's 
 a great addition to the game and glad they spiced up Adventure Mode.
  The SSE is around 7-10 hours (longer if you play it on one of the harder modes) , and is lots and 
 lots of fun if you play it in co-op mode (that's what I did) .
  
  
  Characters:
  As you may or may not know, the game does have 35 characters (some from Melee aren't returning) . 
 Some of them are great, and some (IMO) aren't all that good.
  I know some places have said that the game has clones, but for me the characters are different 
 enough where I don't see any clones. I think the closest two clone characters would be Falco, and 
 Toon Link. And even then you can tell a difference in the character and it's main (Fox, and Link) .
 
  My main gripe with the character list is I wish it had 40 characters, I wish it didn't have ROB 
 (IMO he's a waste of space) , I wish they had Krystal (with her staff) and not Wolf (even if I can 
 understand the reasoning behind having Wolf) , I wish Olimar was better (he should be there, but 
 IMO he's underpowered) and I wish they had one more third-party character. Other then that I like 
 the list of the new characters we got in Brawl. I thought Lucario was going to be bad because the 
 removal of Mewtwo, but I come to find out Lucario is my second best. So who knows what characters 
 are good and bad until we try them out and see for ourselves.
  And I think everyone will be able to find someone they're good with, someone just right for they're 
 playing style. May it be one of speed (like Sonic) , or one of power (maybe King Dedede) , or maybe 
 just a character in the middle of both and is an all around character (might be Mario for you) . 
 The game has 35 characters, it rivals some of the biggest arcade fighters out there (like Dead 
 or Alive, Tekken, Soul Calibur and others) . So not finding a character to fit your style would 
 be kind of hard.
  
  
  Online:
  Ok, I'm going to say what's bad about the online up front. Sometimes it can just be a tad laggy 
 (due to the connection of some people. On XBL if someone is laggy that person is laggy and it doesn't 
 effect thee whole room) . And it takes a little too much time to connect. And then there's only 
 2 minute matches on random.
  Now, on to the good parts (and they do outweigh the bad) .
  You can now battle with your friends online. Come on, how many of you had Melee and wished you 
 could battle one of your friends but couldn't because they lived to far away or just couldn't invite 
 them over every single night? Well, now with Brawl if both of you have Wi-Fi you can battle every 
 night. And not only Brawl, but do the Home Run Contest, or Multi-Man Brawl, or Break the Target. 
 Pretty much anything you can do offline you can do online with your friends. You can have an item 
 switch, you can have 4 friends, you can set stock, coin, or time. Just like what you can do offline. 
 Sure, when it comes to random online all you're limited to is a 2 minute match. But that's random 
 matches. I wanted Brawl online to play with friends and I got it. The lag isn't that bad if they 
 got a good connection (I've got one friend in Canada and the matches with her is pretty much lag 
 free. I've got another friend on the other side of the world and the matches with him are more 
 laggy due to connection. So it depends on how strong the connection is) , and I get to battle them 
 and kick back and have fun. And having fun with friends is what's most important in games like 
 Brawl.
  
  
  Graphics:
  I'm running the Wii on a 37" HDTV. And you'd think that Brawl would look really bad on it. But 
 it doesn't, the graphics are amazing for a Wii game (sure, it's not on par with the 360 or PS3, 
 but it still looks good none the less) .
  It's got beautiful cutscenes in the Subspace Emissary, and in game (the battle mode) is also very 
 very stunning. Makes you wonder how the Wii can look so good, and how Nintendo pushed the whole 
 "Graphics are meaningless" movement (even if I'll take gameplay over graphics) . Brawl is one of 
 the best looking games on the Wii, and I'm glad that they didn't cut any corners on the game when 
 it comes to graphics.
  
  
  Sound:
  The sound on Brawl is great. But that's not why I listed "sound" here. The reason why I listed 
 it was because of the "soundtrack". Brawl has 258 songs on it, that's right it has a mind blowing 
 number of songs. Just to give a number out there the Kingdom Hearts Original Soundtrack Complete 
 has 229 songs (this is the large version, it has the all the Kingdom Hearts, Kingdom Hearts 2, 
 and Kingdom Hearts RE: CoM songs on it) , that is 3 games worth right there. That's a lot of songs 
 packed into one game. Songs from 17 different series (more if you split them up just a little more) , 
 and plus you got 7 that's not from any one series (one of them 7 is songs from the NES games) . 
 So you got a lot of songs to pick from on Brawl.
  
  
  Other modes:
  What else can you do in Brawl?
  ~ Stage Builder: Getting just a little bored with the normal 
 stages? Well, go build your own. Sure it might just be a little limited. But you can make all sorts 
 of crazy things with the stage builder. And once you're done send them to your friends and let 
 them battle on it.
  ~ Break the Target: It has returned. But this time it's just 5 levels of difficulty. I personally 
 liked the old way better (where each character had their own level) but I guess this might be best 
 for co-op.
  ~ Special Brawl: What you can find in this mode is some strange ways to make matches. You can have 
 stamina mode, but at the same time you can have faster speed, and you can be metal mode. All in 
 the same thing. Special Brawl is something everyone should play with, come up with all sorts of 
 strange ways to play Brawl.
  ~ Challenges: If you own a XBox 360 you'll know about achievements. Well this is sort of the same 
 thing on Brawl. Once you meet the requirements for the challenge you'll unlock it. But this time 
 you get something in the game, like a song, or a sticker, or a trophy.
  ~ My Music: Remember me talking about all the songs in Brawl? Well, you can use them in the game. 
 If it's a Donkey Kong level you'll be able to play Donkey Kong songs. And not just that, but you'll 
 be able to pick which songs you want to be more common and which ones you want to be more rare. 
 So one match you might be playing to Donkey Kong, the next you might be playing to the DK Rap.
 
  
  
  Destructible Environments:
  I just wanted to toss this little part in. But I am really happy that some levels on Brawl have 
 destructible environments. When I saw a picture of a battle on Temple on Melee I thought I saw 
 Link firing his bow and one of the columns was broke. So I put two and two together and thought 
 you could break things in Melee. But what I found out when I got the game was you can't break 
 things. But in Brawl there are some parts on some levels that you can attack, and break up. And 
 I'm very happy about that. It was something I wanted in Melee, but I hate to wait and get it in 
 Brawl.
  
  
  Small gripes:
  These are the small pickings I have with Brawl, nothing to effect the score, just things I would 
 have liked (some of them have been listed above) .
  ~ I wish you could play custom stages online with friends. If they got the stage and you got the 
 stage why not be able to play them online?
  ~ Krystal over Wolf. I was really hoping to have Krystal in the game, but I ended up with Wolf 
 and was let down.
  ~ Another third-party character. I was hoping that Nintendo would give a 3rd, third-party character, 
 but I guess I was wrong.
  ~ I wish you could play more then just 2 minutes on random battles. Maybe have modes, like a 5 
 stock mode, a 10 stock mode, 2 minute mode, etc.
  ~ I wish you could record matches over 2 minutes. 5 minutes would have been better, sure it's because 
 of space on the Wii, but still
  ~ The main theme. I love the main theme, it was done by none other then the legendary composer, 
 Nobuo Uematsu (he did the work on games like Final Fantasy, X, VII, VIII, and other games) . But 
 I think they over killed the theme too much. It's the main theme, the menu theme, the online searching 
 theme, the stage builder theme, it's the Final Destination theme, and so on and so on. I think 
 it's just a little overkill.
  
  
  Ending thoughts:
  Is any game perfect? No. Not even Ocarina of Time (the highest rated game out there) was a "flawless" 
 game. But does that mean no game should get a perfect score? If you have a game come as close to 
 perfect as it can then why shouldn't it get a perfect score? Brawl is a game where most will be 
 playing years and years from now. Many will be playing it until the next Super Smash Bros game 
 comes out (if one does in fact come out) . With so much to do on the game, and so much replay value 
 the game will be up there on people's list, up there along with Ocarina of Time, Super Mario Galaxy, 
 and Halo 2/3 (take your pick) . Will the game withstand the test of time? I believe it will, I believe 
 this game will be one that's not soon forgotten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiitsme02209
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  The third generation of smash brings us to the Wii, after numerous delays and angry nerds there 
 were still no shootings (take that PS3) . The main single player changes were the addition of 12 
 new characters and the new adventure mode. You can unlock all the characters through the story 
 mode but where's the fun in that? Finally we have some Wi-Fi support, being able to kick ass and 
 take names would be much sweeter if you could get the person's name or place of residence online 
 but that's nit-picking. The super happy fun-time kicks in when you get near the end of the Subspace 
 Emessary, if you are truly harcore you will have nerdgasm after nerdgasm seeing your 35 favorite 
 characters meet up, kick some ass and blow up stuff Enemies will turn friends and friends will 
 turn enemies turned friends to the enemy and back ot friends of the friends after some massive 
 destruction, death and betrayel. Overall a few things could have been done better, but at least 
 they tried to do em. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegaManAX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Brawl has hit the shores of North America. After 7 long years, the sequel to the bestseller "Super 
 Smash Bros. Melee" is here to reinvigorate your Smash Bros. life.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics, for the most part, are good. The character models are all an improvement from Melee, 
 and stages themselves are also fairly detailed. However, the backgrounds for these stages, with 
 the exception of perhaps Lylat Cruise, are all fairly boring. However, lag is non-existent, even 
 with 4 players, and the CG cutscenes look amazing; they're top-class, and they'll make you forget 
 you're playing the most underpowered system on the market.
  
  Sound and Music
  Ah, now this is where you can commence your trip down nostalgia lane... Brawl is cram-packed with 
 music. If there's a Nintendo game, and the music is good (or even not-so-good) , it'll be in Brawl. 
 From the Gyromite theme to the Ocarina of Time Medley, to the Wii Shop Channel Theme, and even 
 Golden Sun's Final Boss/Battle theme. It also includes music from the 3rd party characters as well; 
 Snake has a full selection of music from his post-SNES days, and Sonic has an incredibly diverse 
 selection. Favorites like Sonic Boom and Angel Island Zone really take you back to the good ol' 
 days.
  
  Gameplay
  It can't be a Smash Bros. game without good gameplay, and on that note, Brawl delivers quite well. 
 New characters, items, game mechanics (such as the removal of wave-dashing, pivot grabs, fox-trotting, 
 and gliding) , boss battles, and a re-tuned single player adventure are what most people are going 
 to be looking for. However, the bigger nitpickers, such as myself, might notice that Brawl has 
 it's own version of the Havoc physics engine (used in games such as Halo) . This was the first major 
 thing I noticed when I played my first VS match, and many items seem to exist just to show off 
 the power of Havoc. Items like springs and bumpers can send you careening off screen, and more 
 subtle tactics such as wind and water jets are also push you around. And don't forget the online 
 play option, which lets you either play with strangers in a standard 2 minute match, or play with 
 friends in a custom setting match. Sadly though, Nintendo is still pushing the Friend Code system, 
 so be sure to jot yours down somewhere, as they're tedious to input, and you'll probably have a 
 bunch of 'em. Not to mention that lag can strike frequently if you have a busy wireless network, 
 so be sure to avoid that. Nobody likes a lagger.
  
  And I haven't even touched on some of the other additions. However, I'm only reviewing the primary 
 aspects of the game; the things I've missed, such as Masterpieces and the Chronicle mode, are only 
 going to be visited by nostalgia junkies (like me) . With great gameplay, truly amazing music, and 
 improved graphics, I give Brawl a 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  It may not seem like it but it has been quite a while since the first game on the Super Smash Bros 
 series was released, nine years precisely. It is quite strange to know that at first the game was 
 not even a main project by Nintendo and that Satoru Iwata and Masashiro Sakurai were only playing 
 with gameplay features and messing with a few faceless characters, in order to create an interesting 
 fighting game. Still, they didn't even know if the title would be released back then. 
  
  
  It looked like a pretty average fighter and probably just another Nintendo 64 project that 
 wouldn't be so praised by reviewers and played by gamers, but Sakurai had a brilliant idea that 
 would forever change the way we would look at this game. "Why don't we replace the character models 
 with famous Nintendo mascots, and give them movesets based on their games?" 
  
  
  I'm sure many people frowned on this idea, since most Nintendo remarkable mascots don't look ready 
 to fight fiercely, fortunately for all of us the idea was eventually accepted and the game started 
 to show its many qualities. The roster of twelve characters was built and a few crazy stages were 
 added. However, Nintendo was still skeptical that the formula would work and if a game featuring 
 a bunch of its main characters battling and throwing items at each other would be accepted by the 
 major audience. 
  
  
  The skepticism led to a Japanese-only release, but the game was massively successful and soon many 
 American players started begging for the game to be released on the West. Nintendo heard our pleas 
 and a low budget game that generated really low expectation had suddenly become one of its main 
 franchises. 
  
  
  With the release of a new console it was obvious that fans would go crazy wondering what the developers 
 would do with the series. Melee was later announced and with a huge amount of characters and stages 
 representing all of the available fighters players were able to enjoy endless hours of frantic 
 battles with friends and a whopping amount of single-player modes, even as new systems and more 
 impressive games were released players were still playing the game and improving their skills. 
 
  
  
  The cycle would repeat itself when the Nintendo Wii was unveiled. But the hype quickly reached 
 unimaginable proportions since we all had to go through two painful years of rumors, speculations, 
 announcements and delays. People wanted to know who would make it to the roster, which stages would 
 be created and how the game would play compared to its amazing predecessors, the answers can be 
 found below. 
  
  
  If by any chance you are not familiar with the series yet; Welcome to the world of Smash Bros a 
 place where the worlds of different Nintendo games collide and famous characters of the company's 
 history brawl on unique stages where the main goal is to knock out your foe by sending him flying 
 off of the screen. But before doing so you will need to build up the damage by using creative attacks 
 that will add to a percentage display that appears on the bottom of the screen, the higher the 
 percentage the easier it is to KO your enemy. 
  
  
  The main difference between traditional fighters and Smash Bros  besides its original formula 
 and famous icons  is that instead of having to press a big sequence of buttons in order to perform 
 a special attack, the blows on this game are dealt by simply pressing a combination of one or two 
 buttons. Many people misjudge the game and quickly bash it by saying that Smash Bros doesn't have 
 the deepness that other fighters do. But this statement is awfully inadequate. 
  
  
  Despite being casual friendly the game has a long learning curve because it takes a lot of practice 
 and patient to master a single character and learn all of its weaknesses and prowess, and eventually 
 manage to use them in highly competitive battles that are usually filled with melee. In other words, 
 the game can be easily enjoyed by people who are not familiar with games and can provide lots of 
 challenges to more skilled players that are willing to learn about some specific characters. 
 
  
  
  The game features thirty-nine characters, some of them are known worldwide such as Mario, Link, 
 Kirby, Pikachu, Bowser and Donkey Kong while others are from obscure Nintendo titles of the past 
 that were quite popular such as Ice Climbers, Pit, Mr. Game and Watch and R. O. B. Each one of the 
 brawlers has its own moveset  with a few exceptions  and its own characteristics that will be 
 extremely important to consider when you are choosing them. A nice addition is the inclusion of 
 two third-party characters: Sonic and Snake  something done for the first time in the series  
 and that will sure please lots of fans. 
  
  
  In the first two installments of the series there were a few fighters that were clearly better 
 than others, this time around the Smash team has worked really hard in order to achieve a really 
 good balance. There are probably a few characters that will prove to be more powerful the more 
 we play the game, but the overall balance is way better and there is not a single character that 
 will absolutely guarantee you a victory. 
  
  
  The Brawling takes place in forty-one different stages representing most characters of the game. 
 Some of the stages are simple battlefields where nothing special happens and are more suited for 
 competitive players, while there are other stages that are sure to bring a lot of havoc into the 
 battle. All stages are unique and have interesting mechanics, a few of them are brought straight 
 from the previous game of the series. Some people may say that some franchises are underrepresented 
 and deserved more stages, but that's all a matter of opinion. 
  
  
  But if you are still not happy about the amount of stages you can also create yours on the Stage 
 Builder which isn't the deepest building tool that I have ever seen but it will sure make lots 
 of players happy, and if you use your creativity when assembling all the pieces  blocks, spikes, 
 conveyor belts and other items - and choosing the background you are bound to create some really 
 interesting stages. 
  
  
  There are three different types of fight that can be selected. On Time matches your goal is to 
 knockout as many foes as possible, one knockout will award you with one point but if you get knocked 
 out you will lose one point, y the end of the match the player with the most points will be victorious. 
 Stock matches are surviving battles where the last character standing will be the winner and on 
 coin battles you have to beat your foes and get the coins they will drop. 
  
  
  There is also Special Brawl where you can mess with the game's speed, gravity and items before 
 entering a battle. 
  
  
  Skilled players that found Melee's AI to be extremely dumb and too easy will be happy to know that 
 in Brawl the tougher CPUs are much more precise and use a bunch of abilities that only human players 
 performed on the other titles. However it seems that once you are facing more than one CPU that 
 is set to a level higher than six they will team up to beat you which is unfair, some may look 
 at it as a more challenging gameplay while others may get extremely frustrated by the fact that 
 once you are sent flying of the stage the CPUs will simply wander around and wait for you to return 
 in order to recommence the fight. 
  
  
  But fortunately by making use of the Wi-Fi connection you can now Brawl with people online. You 
 can either fight your friends, after putting a twelve-digit code on your Wii, or play with random 
 people. When trying the latter you are bound to encounter some issues since it will take a long 
 time for the game to find more challenges, and once the battle starts there is a chance the match 
 will be extremely laggy or that you will be suddenly disconnected. 
  
  
  When online brawling with friends is by far the best option especially because there are no online 
 leaderboards and the game doesn't keep track of your stats, which is a shame since Smash Bros is 
 such a competitive series. A nice option is that you can add four comments and set them to the 
 D-Pad of your controller so that when your character taunts your foe will receive your message. 
 But another drawback is that when playing random matches you won't see your enemy's nicknames and 
 any kind of messaging will be blocked. 
  
  
  Once again you can use items during the battles. But in this game one new item is entitled to its 
 own paragraphs. 
  
  
  The Smash Balls appear randomly during the battles, once they start hovering over the stage make 
 sure you hit it as many times as possible in order to break it, if you are the one who hit it with 
 the final blow you will be able to strike your opponents with a mighty attack that has a great 
 chance of hitting all of them and completely improving your position on the battle. Each character 
 has its own Final Smash and mastering it is an important key to win battles. There is not a previously 
 determined amount of hits to break the Smash Ball, thereby a few players may feel bothered by it 
 since it may eventually be destroyed by an unskilled player, but if you are not satisfied with 
 this new mechanic there is always the option of turning it off on the options menu. 
  
  
  Speaking of options Brawl has a bundle of them. The one that I found to be the most interesting 
 is the "My Music" feature. This feature allows you to choose the songs that will play on each one 
 of the stages and set the probability with which they will play. In total the game has more than 
 two hundred and fifty songs, some of them need to be unlocked or found during battles or the single 
 player mode. 
  
  
  With this outstanding array of songs you may think that the development team didn't give special 
 attention to some of them, but they are all actually amazingly good. They are all reorchestrated 
 versions of their original scores and help to set the mood during the battle. You will encounter 
 some songs that really marked you a long time ago while playing a special game and some more modern 
 tunes that appear on the latest Nintendo titles. The selection is unbelievable, and varies from 
 slower and sad tunes to speedy remixes. It is impossible to find a game with such a moving soundtrack. 
 
  
  
  The game has four different types of control schemes for you to choose. If you are already used 
 to Melee the best choice is the Gamecube controller or the classic one, but if you don't have any 
 make sure to use the Wiimote + Nunchuck combo since it is much more responsive than the awful scheme 
 where you only use the Wiimote that lacks buttons. 
  
  
  Smash Bros is vastly known due to its immense replay value and its incredible multiplayer mode 
 and it has been criticized for not having a nice mode for someone to enjoy while all the friends 
 are away, but Brawl changes it completely with the addition of an eight-hour long adventure mode 
 that will keep you busy for quite a while. 
  
  
  "The Subspace Emissary" contains a plot that will somehow eventually join all the characters of 
 the game in an epic fight against an evil entity that wants to destroy their world. If this mode 
 had to be defined by one genre I would say that it is a beat 'em up platformer because you will 
 advance on side-scrolling levels, avoiding pits and traps, while fighting an horde of enemies and 
 a few bosses. 
  
  
  Through the thirty-two stages of this adventure you can collect lots of trophies and stickers  
 more on those later  and unlock most characters. The levels within the adventure are clear references 
 to past Nintendo titles but there are also some original scenarios that will show you how creative 
 the team of developers behind this game is. 
  
  
  The gameplay will be constantly interrupted by gorgeous cutscenes that will simply blow you away. 
 It is impossible not to feel happy when you see all the heroes you have cherished during all your 
 gaming life join all their forces and finally meet in the same adventure. Pairs like Pikachu and 
 Samus or Mario and Pit are epic. This mode can also be enjoyed by up to two players which will 
 probably add a lot to the replay value of the adventure. 
  
  
  However the lengthy adventure may bore players from time to time due to the huge number of loading 
 screens  which is due to the fact that the cutscenes proceeded by gameplay are too much for the 
 Wii to handle  and the extremely linear and repetitive gameplay of the mode, that will have you 
 running and defeating enemies through the all the levels without any significant change. 
  
  
  Other two main single-player modes are present. The Classic Mode  that you are already 
 familiar with if you played the previous games  where you have to beat twelve stages before reaching 
 the final boss in a classic arcade mode and the All-Star where you will fight all characters of 
 the game in a certain order with only one life available and being able to recover your energy 
 three times during the long stretch of battles. 
  
  
  Besides those you can also try the Event Mode where you will fight special battles with distinct 
 goals such as an epic Dark Link Vs Link combat on the Bridge of Eldin. Some Stadium mini-games 
 such as a home-run contest and break the targets will keep you busy for a few hours when you get 
 tired of playing on all the other modes. If you think there are already enough modes than you should 
 know that there are a few more such as Multi-Man Brawl where you need to kill a lot of strange 
 alloys in different modes. 
  
  
  Super Smash Bros Brawl is in fact a Nintendo encyclopedia, a game that displays all the amazing 
 years of gaming history of the company. The pages of this encyclopedia are the trophies, stickers, 
 masterpieces and chronicles within the game. All of them are collectibles and unlocked during gameplay. 
 Trophies contain information about famous characters of many Nintendo titles and stickers form 
 a nice collection of famous figures. 
  
  
  The masterpieces are a collection of old Nintendo games  most of them featuring the characters 
 of Brawl. The game lets you play them for a certain amount of time and after that the game automatically 
 turns off is a smart way that Nintendo found to advertise its most popular Virtual Console titles 
 and show young players where many old-school characters came from. 
  
  
  To unlock most of those items you will have to perform different challenges that are organized 
 on a glass wall. As you perform them the small windows in the wall will become transparent and 
 you will become aware of the challenge that you need to surpass in order to unlock a certain item. 
 The quantity of challenges is absurd and you will feel compelled to finish them all. Some of them 
 are extremely tough and they will take a lot of commitment and practice to be beaten, while others 
 only require patience. 
  
  
  Finally, Super Smash Bros. Brawl improves on every single aspect of the series. The fighting has 
 been slightly changed due to characters being slower now and gravity being less intense, but it 
 doesn't mean that the game has lost all its frantic battles, it actually remains as crazy as it 
 ever was. The game is an endless source of content and will keep you busy for a long while, perhaps 
 until the next installment of the series is released. 
  
  
  Brawl is a Nintendo homage to itself and its amazing history, and a homage to the biggest gaming 
 company of all time, a company that brought us games like Super Mario Bros and The Legend of Zelda 
 that saved gaming from death and completely changed the way we played games, couldn't be nothing 
 less than a true masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inferno636
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  The first thing I'd like to say about Smash Bros. Brawl is that Nintendo has definetely made a 
 game that will last many years and keep us playing until the possible next one (like they'd need 
 it) . 
  The main thing here is the gameplay. The game creates a nice mixture of chaos, fun, humor, epic 
 fighting, and endless possibility together to make one of the most replayable and fun games I've 
 seen in years. I feel like I've only scratched the surface with all the chalenges, trophies, stickers, 
 music, stages, and so forth, to get. Nintendo has added some subtle changes but creating a much 
 different feel from the last game. The 4 different controls allows you to have the game be played 
 just as you want to. Putting all these subtle changes has made the game much better and keeps you 
 playing for hours. 
  The graphics, to say the least, are defenitely the best on the Wii so far and showing that it's 
 has much better capabilities than said before (too bad only Nintendo can make it look good) . The 
 game gives a nice visual look mixing the different styles from each game without basing it off 
 of one game. Best of all it runs smoothly and the load times aren't terribly long. 
  The music in this game is definetely PEFECT. The ability to collect songs from litterally TONS 
 of games is very fun and makes the game much more replayable. None of the songs are paticularly 
 bad either. They all are great and each have their own unique style from each game. It's definetely 
 good enough were you will probably find your self turning the game on or playing a certain level 
 just to hear a song you love. 
  The story from the Subspace Emissary is quite good and obviously had some deep thought given to 
 it. The story unfolds in a way where you do want to see the rest of the story and keeps you interested 
 till the end. The story also adds some nice characters beyond the oh so famous Master Hand and 
 Crazy Hand. Though this I find is the only problem that stands out to me in the entire game (besides 
 no custom levels online) . The ending cinematic itself was not very satifying in that it ended without 
 showing any characters celebrating or excitement which is one of the things I liked about the cinematics 
 in the first place, the large character interaction we've always wanted to see. But this doesn't 
 bring it down much. I would rate it a 9.7 but the rating system won't allow me. 
  Along with all the goodies like secret stages and characters, Wifi play, collectables, and so much 
 more makes a great game that will be lasting all of us Wii owners a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crzza
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2008 4:44 am PT
Review:  This is the first Mario related game for the Wii taht I bought and really liked. Unlike all the 
 other Mario games for the Wii, it wasn't a complete let down. This is an awsome game. Whoever thought 
 of it should be given a metal for best video game of the century (well, I guess that cant be done 
 until 2100 but you get my point) its just really awsome. My favorite character to play with is 
 Pokemon trainer and Snake. Sonci rules too but I dislike Kirby, he always wins in Wii Fi matches. 
 I love the Wii Fi in the game too. It really sorta makes te game for me. I can never win in the 
 Classic or Adventure modes so I really just stick to wi fi. Its the BEST game in my collection. 
 Above Guitar Hero, Call of Duty, Burnout, all of that other stuff ive completey forgotten about 
 sicne I bought this game a week or two ago. Bets game for the Wii in history of makind. Buy it! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkraush
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  I'm still not entirely sure why it took so long to release, but SSBB is well worth the wait. The 
 graphics look great, once again we see stylized graphics done near perfectly, which I always say 
 is a must for the Wii. The fighting is as fun as ever, and there is a high amount of customization 
 in the game modes. It's also cool being able to create your own stages, I know you can't use them 
 online but I think most people will be playing local multiplayer anyways so that's not much of 
 a negative. I think it's also great that they brought back stages from Melee, theres really no 
 reason to not have every SSB stage ever, it just adds to the replay value and makes the game become 
 even better cumulatively. I also more or less like the new characters. Meta Knight is my personal 
 favorite, I like that theres more obscure characters and games getting into the action, a trend 
 that definately needs to continue. Also of note of course is the addition of Solid Snake and Sonic, 
 the inclusion of non-nintendo characters is another thing we need more of, (Master Chief? The Emo 
 kid from Devil May Cry?) . The online is a cool addition too, although to date I have had not much 
 success finding games unless it's through friend codes.
  
  As always theres a few negatives. The biggest one for me is that there's a less favorable trend 
 of making "new" characters who are basically very slight modifications of existing characters. 
 For example, Wolf is Fox/Falco, Lucas is Ness, Ike is Marth, etc. I don't have any problem with 
 doing things like this, but it's the easy way out. The reason I bring this up is because I think 
 it shows how easy it is to make a new character in a relatively simple fighter like this, and theres 
 no reason to not make 100 new characters. I think it would be badass to have some kind of feature 
 where other Wii games have a character you can import to SSBB, like bring in Travis Touchdown from 
 No More Heroes for example. My other minor gripes is that the SSE story mode isn't too much fun 
 overall, you kinda just do it so it's done; and I also think Zero Suit Samus is a pointless addition, 
 bad character with unimaginative abilities.
  
  Bottom line of course, SSBB rules, is probably the best fighter ever made and is probably the best 
 game for Wii. Next game though, pump out the characters! I know there's probably some issues with 
 copyright or whatever, but we want Optimus Prime! Bomberman! Iron Man! Leonidas! Vincent Vega! 
 Beatrix Kiddo! Alien and Predator! Tony Hawk! Micheal Vick! Gengar!... I could go on forever, I 
 think you get the point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leonidas55
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  For about ten years now, Nintendo has entertained us with excellent party games such as Super Smash 
 Bros, Super Smash Bros Melee, and now, the newest addition to this revolutionary series, Super 
 Smash Bros Brawl. Now, I'm not going to talk about this marvelous game too much (I actually want 
 to be getting back to play it some more, lol) , but I would like to touch on some key points with 
 you all.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 10/10
  With only two exceptions, this is most definitely the best Nintendo game I have ever played. It 
 has a much bigger roster than it's predecessors, less clones, better maps, and an excellent storyline 
 (which is quite an accomplishment since there is practically no dialoge at all between the characters) . 
 Apart from that, I have only one thing to say to you: buying this game will significantly improve 
 your quality of life. Period.
  
  GRAPHICS: 10/10
  Super Smash Brothers Brawl took the image of 40 (yes, counting Zero-Suit Samus, Sheik, and the 
 Pokemon, that makes 40) Nintendo characters from previous games and significantly improved them. 
 The same holds true for the stages, assist characters, pokemon, and all other aspects of this game. 
 And it's infinitely more atmospheric than any of it's forefathers were. Graphics may not make or 
 break a game, but they sure help!
  
  SOUND: 10/10
  Due to the fact that SSBB has an entire library of the best video-game songs that Nintendo has 
 come up with, that automatically makes this the indisputably best sounding game of Nintendo, no 
 questions asked.
  
  OVERALL: 10/10
  There are only three games ever created that I would consider a Perfect Ten: Legend of Zelda: Ocarina 
 of Time; Final Fantasy 7; and Super Smash Brothers Brawls. I AM NOT some pushover who gives perfect 
 tens to every game that can entertain me for five minutes. This game TRULY deserves the title of 
 perfect.
  
  As human beings, we spend our entire lives working in hopes of a better tomorrow, in our Pursuit 
 of Happiness. The release of Super Smash Brothers Brawl will give me that happiness that I have 
 been seeking, for several years to come. Of course, If you want to find a lifelong happiness and 
 peace that will never leave you for the rest of eternity, I would strongly suggest accepting the 
 Lord Jesus Christ as your Personal Savior. I did when I was only twelve years old, and I've not 
 gone a day without thanking God for that wondrous occasion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleTauren
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  Ahh, Super Smash Brothers Brawl. Now, if you don't know what it is, its just a crossover fighter 
 with Nintendo Characters (And in Brawl, several Third Party ones as well) . In Brawl, chaos is abundant, 
 but in a good way..... most of the time. You really just have to be hit out of the ring and go off-screen 
 for you to lose a life which goes into scoring and stuff. 
  
  The Local Multiplayer (fighting with and against your friends) works very well in this game, and 
 if you have 2 or more friends around that can play it with you on a regular basis its a must-buy. 
 
  
  On the other hand, Single player isn't too abundant. The game's main one-man attraction is the 
 Subspace Emissary, which can be played with two people, however the two player elements feel very 
 sloppy and being a platformer with two different people, the camera only follows the first player, 
 making you have to magically teleport up to them a lot of the time. Also, just picking up the controller 
 to play with your friend for have a stage is also poor as well, because from what I tried you can't 
 go on through the rest of the level without that second person, unless you wanna save and restart 
 the game. The Subspace Emissary is about 10 hours long and plays very much like the Kirby Franchise 
 and features cameos galore and tells an 'Alright' story. There is no voice acting, but it isn't 
 really needed. The main problem with the Subspace Emissary is that some levels (Especially the 
 last one) can be remarkably painful, and follows the same route of many other fighters: "MUST SURVIVE 
 IN ORDER TO UNLOCK..... CHARACTERS!!!!". After playing through the Subspace Emissary, there's about 
 another 5 or so hours of fun to be had Solo, what with the 41 events and unlockables and such.
 
  
  After this, however, the game really expires unless you have more people locally. Online play is 
 a MAJOR letdown without friend codes. I am yet to join an Online match, and I must've spent at 
 least an hour in the waiting room. 
  
  If you want wacky combat or just Nintendo fan-service and you have other friends you can fight 
 on a regular basis, Brawl is a must-buy, however, would you buy a console just for this? Nope, 
 unless you're one of the people who's clocked in 500+ hours of melee and still somehow has the 
 money to waste.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledime
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  Now let me say this first, I am definitely not a Nintendo fanboy, but this game is epic. The graphics 
 are superb, the sound, ah yes, I cannot get over how amazing the soundtrack to this game is. The 
 gameplay is perfect. This game is perfect for anyone.
  
  There are 35 characters for you to choose from (well, 37 if you're picky) . They all have a very 
 balanced move set and there is a character for everyone in this game. This game is greatly appealing 
 to newcomers and veterans as you can just basically pick it up and play. This game is amazing.
 
  
  Better yet, we now have online play! YES! THANK YOU! This is the key thing that Melee was missing, 
 but now that it is here, this game is perfect. I highly reccomend this game to anyone who owns 
 a Wii as your collection is not complete without this instant classic game. Trust me, you will 
 never regret it. Happy Gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D-low1095
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  The game Super Smash Bros. Brawl has been on my wish list ever since I read about it. I was bummed 
 when it was delayed, and then again. Since it was delayed so much, I expected amazing graphics, 
 solid gameplay, and a great adventure mode. The graphics turned out awesome and the gameplay was 
 solid, but the adventure was disappointing. After playing "Sub Space Emenisty" for a few hours, 
 I had already unlocked most of the characters. This did make multiplayer beter, but single player 
 seemed a bit small since the game was delayed over a year. I was glad to see so many Nintendo trademark 
 characters on the cast list, and all of the characters for the original Super Smash Bros. . After 
 unlocking all of the characters, finishing "Sub Space Emenisty", and completing all event matches, 
 I say that Super Smash Bros. Brawl a game that could use a little improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leatherface_19
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is such an awsome sequel to Melee but one thing the story lacks the fun 
 factor and really boring at times. But at other times its very cool and interesting but just doesn't 
 have really any fun to it. Now on to the characters you got everybody from Melee including some 
 new ones like Solid Snake and Sonic and other new ones. You also for the first time have Zero Suit 
 Samus which is Samus before she finds the Metroid Prime Suit. The classic mode is basically the 
 same nothing has changed about that also you can do challenges by yourself or multiplayer with 
 a friend. Brawl also has a wide vareity of stages as well as some new ones along with the old ones. 
 Also what i don't understand is how come Masterhand isn't one of the bosses no yes i know hand 
 got killed but at the time i did not know. I think you cannot have a super smash bros. without 
 master hand. All in all Brawl is a great way to end the SUPER SMASH BROS.  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reyveign
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 27, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Being a veteran player of the previous Smash Bros. games, I easily found this a game to get immediately.
 
  
  Of course after playing the other two games to death, and becoming seriously skilled.. I didn't 
 find anything much different or appealing in Smash Bros. Brawl. The appearance of one of my favorite 
 characters of all-time (Solid Snake) greatly encouraged me to unlock him, but his moves were somewhat 
 disappointing.
  
  Several of the other characters have been tweaked, and if you're a veteran and fan like I am, chances 
 are you're all ready going to rent/buy it, so I don't need to explain the tweaks in it.
  
  There are many new stages, but even with them being different none of them actually FEEL different. 
 Some of them are virtually the same as others, with different backgrounds etc. which makes them 
 somewhat boring.
  
  In general there's only one new feature brought into the game, and I like to call them 'super moves'. 
 A small floating orb enters the battle (considered an item and can be turned off in custom matches) 
 that players can scramble for and attack - causing it to bounce off in the opposite direction. 
 Careful though... other people can break that thing before you do, so plan your attacks carefully.
 
  
  It takes a fair amount of damage to break that ball, and when it does the character that receives 
 the bonus will glow with a rainbow-colored aura. With a simple press of a button - and careful 
 timing - that player will initiate an ultimate attack, normally catching multiple players inside 
 of the blast and instantly K. O. ing them.
  
  At any rate, SSBB has some custom features such as stage creation and online multiplayer, some 
 features that can seriously make playing much more enjoyable.
  
  A great game for sure, but newcomers to the game may have a little more fun than those of us that 
 have been playing SSB since the first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NahtanoJNosliW
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Intro: First of all, let me say that like you, I bought a Wii in anticipation of this game. You 
 will be happy to note that this game was well worth the wait.
  
  Gameplay: 
  Super Smash Brothers Brawl doesn't take many chances with their tried-and-true formula. There are 
 a few minor changes, however. First of all, you can air-dodge more than once, and doing so does 
 not stop all of your other actions. Second, you can no longer pick a direction to dodge in, thus 
 eliminating wavedashing. Third, all characters move slightly slower, and are significantly weaker, 
 meaning your opponent must have a higher % to kill them with the same move that would have killed 
 them in Melee.
  
  Much hype was made about the Subspace Emmisary, but I was somewhat dissappointed. In the beginning 
 of SE, you switch between groups of characters who are all on their own unique paths, which eventually 
 merge. 
  However, once you've met all the characters, the game basically plays out like Adventure mode from 
 Melee, in which you select which character you want to play as and complete levels. There's nothing 
 wrong with being able to select your character, but it meant missing out on all the cutscenes, 
 and took away from the feeling that you were playing a unique story. Also, some of the levels will 
 have you wandering mindlessly in these strange mazes aided only by a less-than-helpful map.
  In the end, SSBB has a below average story mode, but the excellent multiplayer makes up for it.
 
  
  A note about online: hopefully one day Nintendo will realize that their friend code system DOES 
 NOT WORK. It's a pointless waste of time and no one likes it. That said, if you just want to jump 
 in and play a quick match, the only mode available is a 2 minute brawl or a 2 minute team brawl. 
 You don't get to customize anything, and the lack of voice chat makes you feel like you're playing 
 against smart computers. Also, you can't take a buddy into the quickmatches.
  
  Graphics: Some of the best you can find on the Wii, but I don't care about graphics that much, 
 so 
  
  Sound: Each level has unique music, and you can unlock dozens of songs. They all sound great. Unfortunately, 
 none of the characters in story mode talk, which would have been ok, but there's no text either...
 
  
  Replay Value: Infinite
  
  Conclusion: Only a slightly repetitive single player campaign and a bad online experience keep 
 this game from getting a 10. However, this is still the best game you could possibly play if you 
 have four people at your house and a must-have for the Wii.
  
  Update: I felt the need to also mention that the characters still aren't all balanced.
  Also, 
 if someone complains aoubt the lack of wave dashing, please, remind them that wave dashing was 
 a glitch. Nintendo never meant to put it in, and the result was that certain characters could wave 
 dash so much better than other characters, it greatly accentuated the difference in usefulness 
 between the fast characters and the slow characters. Thankfully, the slow characters aren't totally 
 useless in Brawl, such as Ike, who is one of the best characters in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioLinkGenofa
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2009 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Smash bros started as a low budget fighter for the N64 look how far it went. Brawl hopes to surpass 
 melees success. Can it do it. We;; if you aren't annoying brat and can't do well without washdash! 
 And ignore the more balanced character roster then chances are you rely on it too much!!!
  
  GAmeplay- In my opinion melee was too fast. Maybe thats just me but still... Brawl goes back 
 to the original speed with all the great pro moves in melee! It is something that will applause 
 to people who prefer both games. 10/10
  
  Balance- One of the most balanced fighters ever. They made useless moves in melee better, they 
 made stats of characters better of worse. For EX- Kirby s stronger and fox is weaker to make it 
 a fair fight. Also ness PSI thunder is faster and easier to control making him better while Captain 
 falcon has more delay leaving him a bit more open. These are just a few example on how this is 
 hands down the most balanced fighter of the three.
  
  Music- 250 remixed or the same songs thoughout nintendos histroy nuff said.
  
  Controls- Even 
 better then melee too fast ruins controls somewhat and the original just was inpherior. 
  
  Graphics- With a impressive frame rate incredibly detailed characters and courses you may be awed 
 by the graphics and get distracted if your bad at the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: classicgameR4
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  I prefer Melee I think the only thing better in this game mainly is the roster and the new items. 
 I liked on Melee you got that thing showing how many points at the end of the battle. I really 
 like the idea of the adventure mode on this one, but Melee was better I think. the Subspace Emissary 
 is good, but it gets kinda boring. The idea of playing as all the characters was a good idea, but 
 it didn'y come out as good as it could of. Don't get me wrong this is a great game its very good. 
 The Smash Ball and the Smart Bomb (to me B Bomb) are the greatest new items. I think it would have 
 been better if they just took Melee and added items and characters. 
  I know I sound like I'm only saying bad stuff, but do you really need me to say any good stuff. 
 You have all heard how awesome it is you don't need another person saying it. so don't think I 
 hate this game I love it. But like I said do you really need me to say how good it is it needs 
 someone to point out a few of the very few flaws it has.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: evrynitewithyou
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 12:19 am PT
Review:  When the original Super Smash bros. came out for the N64 it was really awesome. A fighting game 
 with the characters in the Nintendo Universe dueling it out. 
  
  With Super Smash Bros. Brawl. They have added so many characters there is really no one else to 
 think of to add to it. Solid Snake from the Metal Gear Solid Series has made a debut to this game 
 and so has Sega's character. Sonic The Hedgehog. With so many characters there are so many different 
 battles to have and find your true character.
  
  Nintendo has also added Online Play which has been growing since Brawl's Launch. Finding someone 
 to fight online takes a while due to a low amount of servers at the moment, but Nintendo is working 
 on fixing that and it's been gettting a little better. You can play with friend codes or with anyone 
 in the world.
  
  The thing that was improved from Melee, was the story mode. The Subspace Emissionary is a great 
 story. It's amazing how no voice acting or text is displayed through out the whole story and yet 
 you can easily follow the whole story through. It has some hilarious moments that will just have 
 you cracking up! I know I couldn't stop laughing. Nintendo has done something right with Brawl. 
 The delay was worth the wait. 
  
  If you have a Wii there is no excuse not to have this game. This is a must have for any Wii owner. 
 Big or small. It does great at get togethers or at parties. Go pick this game up as soon as you 
 can! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sasukefan666
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  The game is amazing I can play forever and still not be bored of it. The multiplayer is where the 
 game shines that is for sure but the other modes are still great. I've found myself stopping to 
 play coin launcher I love how they got rid of the lottery feature and also you can get stickers 
 the only flaw is that there are quite a few clones when it comes to the characters but it is still 
 fun to have a clone fight between ness and lucas. One of the things that I love about this game 
 is the sub space emissary mode it is time consuming and it helps you get bettter with all characters. 
 If you are looking for a game to play with friends than this is the perfect game to play. And also 
 the kids will love this game to but it is kind of annoying to play with them cause they tend to 
 spam the buttons. That is what i think of the game you will have to buy it to see what you think 
 about it. I give this game a 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheeseball444
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  Unlike the older version of this game (SSBM) the story mode in this game wasn't just battling one 
 character at a time... it was a lot deeper but still had its up's and down's. Online is amazing 
 with virtually no lag ( unless you have slow internet) and it gives you the choice of team battle 
 or free for all. Also you can spectate and bet coins on who you think is going to win. Over all 
 this game is what it has said to be, a great game. I think then graphics are pretty good, like 
 donkey kong has individual hairs now :) . I really enjoy this game.
  
  The multi-player is really cool as well. With all these new characters and items the multi-player 
 is very fun. You can customize the rules which gives it a really cool twist. Now you can take pictures 
 whenever you want, i found that really handy when you pause and something funny is going on:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExtremeGamer11
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing. There's 35 characters, 41 stages, bonus features, wi-fi, and more! 
 There's way too many modes in this game for me to write in a single review, so I'll name a few.
 
  In wi-fi, there's friend battle, and there's solo battle. In friend battle, you can do a co-op 
 multi man brawl, you can fight friends, and a few more. In solo battle, you can spectate matches, 
 and you can do a wi-fi team battle and free for all battle.
  
  In adventure mode, the subspace emissary, you fight through 31 side-scrolling stages to save the 
 world from subspace. This is the main way to unlock the characters. 
  
  In Stage Creator, You can make stages from scratch. Fist, you pick one of three sizes, one of three 
 backgrounds, and the music. Each background has different parts. There aren't many pieces to build 
 it with, but when used correctly, you can make a great stage.
  
  In brawl, you can fight a CPU or another player. First, you each pick a character, and then pick 
 a stage. After that, The brawl starts. With every character and stage, you can do 1435 different 
 brawls!
  
  There's a TON more to this game, but you can figure that out. :P 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay is great. You can use 4 different controllers, The Gamecube controller, 
 The classic controller, the Wii remote. and the Wii remote and nunchuck. I personally like the 
 Gamecube controller better because it's fitting and feels like Melee.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound is incredible. It's a lot better than it's predecessor. In melee, a few sounds were muffled, 
 but in this game, They're practically perfect.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics seem perfect, too. They have everything down to the last detail.
  
  Fun Factor:
 
  
  The game is very fun. there's many different kinds of modes, from Subspace Emissary to Target smash.
 
  
  Overall:
  
  You'll be playing Brawl for years to come. A gathering of many very great game creators to make 
 a game doesn't come often. If you have the chance to get this game, GET IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: payne6705
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2008 9:10 pm PT
Review:  now before you rate me a zero on this game let me explain some things i LOVED about this game ok 
 let me explain some things i liked
  
  PROS
  
  interesting cast of characters 
  
  some stickers from old Nintendo games make u have good memories
  
  the adventure mode was long
 
  
  the graphics and load times are decent (not too long or short just right trust me don't listen 
 to people when they saw the graphics they suck or the load times suck cause they are lying) 
  
  
  great music
  
  can customize music for all stages
  
  it has both new stages and 
 some original melee stages that you can unlock 
  
  action is very smooth there is absolutely no slowing down from the action even when there is 4 
 players on the screen 
  
  the assist trophys kick ass
  
  there is a ton of content on that one disc to keep anyone happy 
  
  the online mode is fun
 
  
  custom levels are awesome
  
  i could go on and on but im not now time for the cons
  
  
  
  CONS
  
  sonic and snake are a very cool addition but don't bring much to the game
 
  
  some missing characters are heavily missed
  
  some original characters don't play the same as they did in the past
  
  
  some levels really 
 don't stand out... like there isn't one that someone really wants to play every round
  
  unlocking all content takes days not months idk but i played melee allot to unlock the characters 
 and stages well i unlocked all the characters and stages very easily and that really disappointed 
 me allot (u unlock characters via adventure mode and they join your team automatically and thats 
 it..... ya kinda disappointing)
  
  the lag in SOME online matches are horrible i can play any online game without lag but in this 
 game its horrible and i don't understand why 
  
  
  
  and ya thats it i loved the game just wish it wasn't so easy to unlock everything and that SOME 
 levels feel bland and don't really bring much to the game 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Schwartz55
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  After Playing the game i was wow on the amount of content that this game had for the all the different 
 modes to all the trophies and stickers that u had to get.
  The sound quality in this game is some of the best that is one the if not the best. Now to the 
 Graphics far the best graphics that u will see on the wii. Now that controls of the game are good 
 with the GameCube and classic controller the Wii remote sideway is a joke. With a game this great 
 could there possibly be complaints well i have a some. First the online it is a cool feature that 
 they added to that game but it takes so long if you use that vs anyone that online mode of the 
 game is not worth it. You are better off playing with your friends that have friends code. Now 
 to the Friend Code they are such a joke. The other complaint that i have is that Break the Targets 
 why only give us 5 or 6 different stages to play with. What happened to the characters specific 
 ones and the last complate that i have with game is the stage builder my only complete with that 
 is that they should have given you more pices to us to make your stages. Overall this is a must 
 get if your have a wii and with all the content in the game you will being playing this game for 
 years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hexph33r
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  If you thought super smash bros. for the N64 was good, and you loved Super smash bros. melee for 
 the Gamecube, this game is definetly worth dying for. So many new improvements have been made to 
 the game. Such as the Solo mode "Subspace Emissary" is a drastic improvement to the 30 min. long 
 adventure mode in melee. 15+ hours of gameplay are completely dedicated to this mode. Finding all 
 new friends, and some new foes all along the way. For those of you wanting to kick it old school 
 with classic mode, help yourself! The graphics aren't fantastic, but they are greatly improved 
 since Gamecube. You can choose controll options from the following: Wiimote, Wiimote and nun-chuk, 
 Classic Controller, or the confortable favorite, your Gamecube controller. Customizable controllers 
 are their for the picky ones out there. The most amazing improvement is the online play, which 
 is amazing! Even now, when not many people own the game, it's still an amzing experience. While 
 you wait for your onlin brawl to begin, you'll practise on your old friend the sandbag until there 
 is a sufficient amount of players. Fantastic, incredible, amazing, astounding... words just simply 
 cannot describe the magnitude of this game greatness! So, If you own a Wii and like to have fun, 
 go out and buy super smash bros. brawl TODAY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hawkman21
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  I'll try to keep it all simple for those out there not wanting to read for over five minutes. 
 
  
  Pros: Incredibly addicting gameplay can keep one drawn for hours; simple yet effective controls 
 ensure that anyone can pick up and play; deep character list represents some of the best in gaming 
 (Mario, Samus, Solid Snake, etc...) ; the final smash really adds a new level of strategy to the 
 gameplay; good sound effects; many different game modes; online play is fun; multiplayer is a blast 
 (seriously, i was up until 5 the other night and i had class at 9:30)
  
  Cons: Some of the characters are incredibly similar (Ness and Lucas) ; some events are just tedious
 
  
  Overall: this game is phenomenal. from the moment you start your very first match or use your first 
 Final Smash and send your opponents sailing, you know you've found something special. i simply 
 cannot say enough about how great this is. any game that allows you to finally determine who wins 
 between Mario and Luigi or between Solid Snake and Pikachu is one worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kjam68
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is SOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO the game of 2008! The Smash Dojo site lived up to its meaning: TO 
 ROCK THE FREAKING U. S. A!!! (sorry i'm crazy for this awesome game) Ever since my friend got it, 
 i've been calling him asking him if I could come over to his house. So far i've only got to go 
 over twice, but he brought it over to my house twice too. Every time I do a match like Mario vs. 
 Sonic, I get the feeling to play as Sonic and anyone AGAINST ME as Mario. Probably the only crappy 
 part is the fact that you cant play custom stages against people on wi-fi. Hold on.*plays SSBB 
 for two hours* Anyway, the character selection is huge (btw the time u start the game u get a WAAAAAAAY 
 better selection of characters than Melee) and also basically all the characters are unique and 
 u just gotta love the stages u can fight on. (though some of them Brawl could do without) And for 
 the finale, FINAL SMASHES WERE AN AWESOME ADDITION!!! Thank Nintendo for those things. Exept one 
 person's video faked Zero Suit Samus's final smash. Anyway, I don't understand why this isn't a 
 10. BUT U JUST GOTTA HAVE THIS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bran91095
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the very few games on the Wii that are actually worth buying. It has a great multiplayer, 
 and singleplayer mode. If your just getting your Wii, this would be one of the first games to buy.
 
  
  Some may say this game was exaggerated by all the hype, but it isn't - this is the best game released 
 on Wii. The graphics, gameplay, and characters are all much better than Super Smash Brothers Melee. 
 With a great cast of over 30 characters, including Sonic the Hedgehog from the Sonic games, and 
 Solid Snake from Metal Gear Solid, and many more newcomers.
  
  There are also custom brawls to specify what kind of Brawl you will have. The game also includes 
 a game mode which could be sold on its own called "The Subspace Emissary".
  
  This game should be at the top of your "To Buy" lists - this game is certainly a treasure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Hyper-Kid
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  I just got Super Smash Bros Brawl, and I was all excited and oculdnt wait to play it. 3-4 days 
 later, here I am, feeling like I've finished it. I just finished off unlocking all the characters. 
 Now theres one problem. In Melee, it took a couple of months to get them all, unless you played 
 nonstop. In Brawl, it takes less than a week.
  
  There are a bunch of things in brawl that are great, but it still feels lacking. The new Subspace 
 emissary mode is entertaining, and does take a LITTLE while to complete, though I'd hardly call 
 it "long". However, I still wish they had kept some facimile of the adventure mode from melee, 
 and put it in brawl. The adventure mod in melee, you could through with each character seperatly, 
 and try and get a highscore with each character. The one in Brawl uses EVERY character, and the 
 premise of each stage is not quite as imaginative. Mostly you run around a side scrolling area, 
 killing wandering baddies that never seem to stop coming, and go through doors.
  The Classic mode alone does not fell like enough, probably partly due to the fact that every time 
 you do it, you fight moslty the same people in the same places.
  I've yet to try all-star mode, but I'm not getting my hopes up.
  The level creator is an interesting 
 idea, and that is one of the things i like about this game. Dont get me wrong I DO like the game... it's 
 just not quite what us dedicated smash fans were hoping for. The Graphics could easily have been 
 better too.
  One thing I need to stress, is that if you are a big fan of the previous gams in the series, particularly 
 Melee, you may be in for a dissapointment when you see how much from Melee is different, or non-existent 
 in Brawl. Particularly the stages. There are less stages in Brawl than in Melee, i think, and even 
 if there are more, none of them are all that good. Most of the new characters are really interesting 
 ( I particularly like Pit, Ike, and Snake) But characters from previous installments are either 
 different enough to fell like different characters (I'm looking at YOU Ganondorf) Or have been 
 removed completely (Now I'm looking at where YOU should be Roy) .
  All in all, if you like the series, it is worth getting this game, but be warned, it will more 
 likely than not fall quite a bit below your expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foggycow
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  for a fighting game this game is for you. The online play can get a little laggy but its not nothing 
 to worry about. I think the new characters are very good but the two characters i could not get 
 into was sonic and squrtal. they moved a little too fast for my own good but i enjoyed the rest. 
 The story line was a little bit reppetitive but its okay. I love the final smashs were auesome. 
 anyways if you love cartoon fighting this game is for you and i hope you enjoy playing it as much 
 as i did. I deffinantly dont have a problem with saying this is the best wii game by far. I give 
 it 5 stars and a defiante 10 out of 10. one thing i do have to warn you guys about though is that 
 taboo is by far the most annoying boss i have ever fought in my life. even on normal that guy will 
 kick you butt. so bye bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whitwaitwhuut
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Now, lets begin by me saying that i have always loved Super Smash Brothers series ever since it 
 first came on the N64. It was one of the first fighting games that i would play for countless hours 
 on end. I would always try to beat all the characters in SSB on very hard difficulty as a kid. 
 But, now that we have gotten that out of the way, lets move on to brawl
  
  First off, we'll start on the story (Sub Space Emissary) . You start off as either Mario or Kirby, 
 and they seem to be in a tournament of some sort. After Mario and Kirby are finished fighting, 
 you can see meta-knights ship in the background, following it a radish-black cloud. You fight off 
 the enemies and then fight off against Petty Pirana, who is holding peach and Zelda captive. You 
 save them, but without warning, you can see 2 R. O. B's opening a strange machine. The machine goes 
 off and the stadium is engulf by a huge dark sphere.
  
  As for the gameplay in SSE, it reminds me of Kirby Super Star, which was and still is an awesome 
 game. You basically go from point A to point B, beating up baddies, opening doors and whatnot. 
 There is also an "RPG" element in SSE in which characters equip stickers to enhance their attack, 
 defense, charged attacks, etc. I, for one, felt that this was un-needed and out of place, especially 
 in a fighting-side scrolling game. I also feel that the developers dragged out the story way too 
 much. Sure, i like my games to be more than 1 hours long, but after awhile, You'll start getting 
 a "Will this ever end?" feeling in your stomach.
  
  Next is the Multi-player aspect of the game. This is where brawl shines the most. You can either 
 play with your family/friends offline, or you could battle people all over the world online (about 
 time, amirite?) . You can edit your item selection, damage ratio, stock, time and things of the 
 like. I prefer online more due to the fact that i can play with friends who don't live very close 
 to me. But with every good thing that comes, there are problems that come along with it. Lag is 
 a very big issue online and i hope that Nintendo will fix it soon.
  
  Extras
  Now when you are playing a game like brawl, wouldn't you want to show off your achievements to 
 friends? This is where the Challenges section comes in. It displays your current achievements and 
 achievement in which you have not completed yet. The achievement could range from beating classic 
 mode on easy to beating boss battle mode on intense difficulty. There are also trophies that you 
 can either unlock via challenges, or completing the game with characters in either classic or all-star 
 mode. You can also pick up trophies in SSE or the coin launcher mini-game, and you can get stickers 
 in SSE, the coin launcher mini game, or doing regular brawl.
  
  There isnt really much to talk about afterwords, besides the music, which i think that Nintendo 
 did a really good job at. Oh, did i mention that you can get CD"s too?
  
  If your already a fan of the SSB series, you will definitely enjoy this latest installment in the 
 series. This is one of those games that anyone can play, whether it be a video game veteran or 
 a first-time player.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoxOfPocky
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Always been a fan of the Super Smash Bros. games since it's so fun to play, specially when friends 
 are over. I expected this one to just be minor improvements from the previous game, but I got to 
 say, I'm shocked at all the new goodies they provided in this sequel.
  
  The Goods
  + More characters to play with and my favorite being Snake from Metal Gear! 
  + There's a lot 
 of stages to battle it out with the NPCs or your buttons; however, just in case that is not enough 
 for you, there's an editor for you to make your own stage.
  + LOTS AND LOTS OF UNLOCKABLES. Little trophies, musics, and etc.
  + There's a lot of new modes 
 to keep you going for hours.
  + Can't forget the improved graphics.
  + New innovation to the combats. There's a rainbow orb which spawns occasionally, and whoever destroys 
 it get their special. If you use it, it performs a little flashy attack. Might not seem to be a 
 big deal, but it keeps the game quite entertaining.
  + Fun. Addictive. Great to play with your family and friends. Easy to pick up and play, for a few 
 minutes or for hours (your choice) .
  
  The Bad
  - My old real issue against the game is the Wii nunchuck remotes. It takes some getting use to, 
 but it's nothing that can't be fixed with a controller from your GC. 
  - Can I say that I want more as a bad thing? lol. I just can't get enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RhysGamma
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Good soundtrack, a few interesting and creative stages, online play, and that's about it.
 
  
  Cons: No L-canceling, no wavedashing, all of the characters were nerfed, not all of the characters 
 returned, a lot of really bad stages, slow gameplay, slow loading times, slow everything, sub-par 
 graphics, nothing like Melee, nothing like Melee, and NOTHING like Melee.
  
  I have been playing Smash since the day it came out, way back when in 1999. It was the whole reason 
 I got a Nintendo 64. The same is true for Melee, it is the *SOLE* reason I got a gamecube. So, 
 guess why I got a Wii? Brawl...
  
  I have been playing competitive Smash for close to 9 years. Melee is my game of choice. Why? BECAUSE 
 MELEE IS ACTUALLY A *GOOD* GAME!!! I have actually tried to give Brawl a chance, but the more I 
 play it, the more disappointed I become. I beat that "long" single-player mode, unlocked the characters, 
 and still was sorry I bought the game. 
  
  Gameplay: 
  
  SSSSSLLLLOOOOOWWWWW..... Why are game such as Halo, Gears of War, Call of Duty, Virtua Fighter, 
 Marvel vs. Capcom, and *Melee* so successful? I'll tell you why: Fast-paced, edge-of-your-seat 
 gameplay. Knowing that if you are shot just once, you're dead. Knowing that if you are hit once 
 more, it will lead to a combo with your death at the end. THAT is what makes those games great. 
 Brawl lacks that. I often find myself wondering when the match is going to end and contemplate 
 running off of the edge just to get the match over with. I try to execute a smash attack and I 
 find myself thinking, "Geez, I could go get a drink and be back in time to see the move finish." 
 Combos are almost non-existent. The few that there are are either really hard to pull off and suck 
 or take no skill to pull off and suck. In order to pull off said "combos" you would have to face 
 a total idiot who has no concept of DI. (DI stands for directional infuence for the brawl fanboys 
 and n00bs.) Tech skill is totally out, meaning that you can't L-cancel and you can't wavedash. 
 L-canceling is what made Melee so fast-paced. Also, what was once a some-what difficult task to 
 do, sweetspotting the edge, has now become so easy, even a toddler could do it. 
  
  Graphics:
  
  Easily a step back in time. Melee has better graphics, way better graphics. When 
 I turned on the game, I thought I had turned on my PS2 by accident. I rubbed my eyes and shook 
 my head. Yet, it was my Wii that was on. I'm not too big on the graphics department, so it doesn't 
 really matter to me. I judge a game on its gameplay, and we all know how I feel about that. But 
 since this game has has such slow and horrid gameplay, I then focused my attention on the other 
 aspects on the game, including the graphics. This game could have looked better on the PS2.
  
  Sound: 
  
  The high-point of the game, if you could call it that. I loved the music and 
 the sound effects. It turned out that I spent fifty dollars for a game that I will only listen 
 to! Even with the great sound, Nintendo still managed to screw it up, What is up with the english 
 voice dubs? Since when has Captain Falcon had a Brooklyn accent? Since has Falco sounded like a 
 nine year old girl? Basically, the only good use for this game is hearing its opening theme song, 
 which you could get for free somewhere else.
  
  In order to come to my conclusion, I had to evaluate the game as a whole. This was my thought process: 
 "OK, the gameplay sucks, may be other other aspects are good. Graphics? No. Sound? Yeah, but then 
 no. Is this even fun? No." After that, I realized that this game BLOWS! This game sucks like Oprah 
 Winfery eats. 
  
  From the auto-sweetspotting to the lack of returning characters, this game has has proven to me 
 that it is a disappointment through and through. All they had to do was take Melee, dress it up 
 with more characters, more stages, and slightly better graphics, and it would have been a smashing 
 (see the screw you pun?) success in my book. But NoOoOoO... Instead, they took Melee, stripped 
 it down, crapped out it, laughed at it (along with the rest of us) , and released it. OH! but it 
 has online play! Whoopie! Too little too late! Online play + bad game = bad online play. After 
 years of development and many months of delays, THIS is what they came out with? 
  
  What is Melee exactly? I'll tell you. It's the original Super Smash Bros. dressed up with more 
 characters, more stages, and better graphics. They didn't take out any characters, but they did 
 take out some stages. Guess what?! They replaced those stages with better ones! In Brawl, this 
 is not the case. Battlefield is the only good stage in Brawl when playing competitively. 
  
  Melee, *to this day*, is forty dollars when it is used! Umm, for the Brawl fanboys: that's 
 only ten dollars less than Brawl. Why is Melee so high in price even though it has been out for 
 over *seven years*? Oh, I don't know, maybe because it's a good game? Perhaps? My prediction: two 
 years from now Melee will be around sixty dollars (kinda like a Marvel vs. Capcom 2 thing) and 
 Brawl will be in your local bargain bin.
  
  Let me break this down for you: Gamespot rated Marvel vs. Capcom 2 a 7.0 out of ten. Gamespot rated 
 Super smash Bros. Melee a 8.9 out of ten. Marvel vs. Capcom 2 goes for eighty dollars and Melee 
 goes for forty dollars. How much is Halo? Ten bucks. This proves that GameSpot has no clue what 
 they are talking about. To rate a game as sorry as Brawl higher than Melee should be a crime.
 
  
  The loading times, OMG the loading times. Hey, Nintendo! Welcome to 2008! When the PSP has faster 
 loading times than a "next-gen" console, you know there's a problem. When I have the occasional 
 impulse to give this game another chance and turn it on, I feel like I am on a dial-up connection. 
 It takes FOREVER to get started playing. So much for "pick-up-and-play" that this series has boasted 
 about. 
  
  Who will enjoy this game? Not me, and that's all that matters. But for the sake of answering the 
 question: n00bz, n00blets, n00biez, and more n00bz. I have yet to meet a non-n00b, who played Melee 
 and said that he or she liked this game. I can't say that hardcore fans of the series will like 
 it, because I am a hardcore smash player and I hate this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SMR-Venom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  Now where to begin? This is perhaps the game that every Wii owner has been anticipating for quite 
 some time now. I'll start with the basic aspects of a game that make the game great.
  
  GAME-PLAY
  
  Game-play is what makes the game what it is. The uniqueness in a game lies mostly 
 within its game-play. Now, the game-play in Super Smash Bros Brawl (SSBB) has left my jaw on the 
 floor as soon as I started playing SSBB for the first time.
  The control schemes offered work very well. There are 4 control schemes, Sideways Wii Remote, Wii 
 Remote & Nunchuk, Classic Controller and GameCube Controller. All work very well, I myself use 
 the Wii Remote & Nunchuk scheme but its up to you how you play. If you still wish to use the old 
 GameCube Melee style, be my guest.
  Playing SSBB is very fun. The control schemes work for old veterans of the series and also for 
 newcomers playing for the first time. There are the basic attacks, and the special attacks. Normally 
 these attacks are executed by moving the analog stick or D-Pad in a direction and pressing a button. 
 The final smash is also very simple to execute, break the smash ball and press, in my case, the 
 'B' Button.
  All in all, SSBB is very fun to play. The game-play is action packed while maintaining a good pace 
 and feel.
  
  VISUAL STYLE
  
  SSBB is up there with top Wii games, just behind Super Mario Galaxy, I would say it is the second 
 best looking Wii game to date while still playing smoothly. The character models are amazingly 
 detailed for the Wii and the stages are packed with details and ever changing effects. 
  
  SOUND & MUSIC
  
  SSBB offers a huge amount of audio elements which make the game experience 
 ever more fruitful. There are over hundreds of songs from all over the Nintendo World and beyond. 
 An example would be while playing in the stage "Shadow Moses Island", you would hear the music 
 from all over the Metal Gear Solid games and once the spotlight lands on you, there will be an 
 '!' and the sound effect of excitement will pop up.
  You can also unlock more songs while you play through the abundant amount of modes and events offered 
 in the game.
  
  MULTI-PLAYER
  
  SSBB gives you the option to play locally and through Nintendo Wifi Connection. Local mode is a 
 blast to play and increases the overall fun factor of the game. You can Co-op during the Subspace 
 Emissary (Cinematic Adventure Mode) and have tons of fun with a friend.
  The online mode is also good however I will say again the friend code element is a bit tedious, 
 however you can play with anyone who is online. You may experience lag if the servers are packed 
 or you have a bad connection but overall the online mode is good and provides much more replay 
 ability. 
  
  LASTING APPEAL
  
  SSBB provides endless amounts of replay ability. Multi-Player is a great factor that increases 
 the lasting appeal. The other modes offered in the game are also very fun. There is the classic 
 mode which has been included in all the editions of the game. There is also the Subspace Emissary 
 (SSE) which is an adventure mode collecting character from all over the Nintendo World and beyond.
 
  You can also unlock other events and trophies which you might want to play the SSE to unlock them 
 all. Mini-games include the games such as the homerun hitting contest and boss mode. More events 
 are the 100 man brawl and such. There are over hundreds of trophies to collect and many stages 
 to unlock. There are 21 characters provided at the start of the game and in total there are 35 
 so you must unlock the rest. There are also many stages to unlock, including melee stages and custom 
 stages you can create.
  All in all, Super Smash Bros Brawl is an amazing game that every single Wii owner should own whether 
 they are veterans to the game or newcomers. SSBB provides great fun with friends or alone and I 
 definitely recommend purchasing it. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin3085
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  Intro: in 1999, there was Super Smash Bros for the N64. It was one of the N64's best game and stared 
 12 playable nintendo characters. It also was praised for its addictive multiplayer and became a 
 bestseller. In 2001, there was Super Smash Bros Melee for the Gamecube. it added more to the table 
 with vastly improved graphics, even more addictive multiplayer a new adventure mode, and a vast 
 set of trophies that seemed endless. I became the Gamecube's best selling game easily with over 
 6 million copies sold. Now seven years later, the is Super Smash Bros Brawl. 
  
  
  Gameplay: Before I even metion modes, I'm just going to say the basics.
  You choose from a veriety 
 of characters to battle eachother in a match. The goal is to knock an opponent off the screen far 
 enough so they lose a life.
  It is easier to knock an opponent when they have a higher damage percentage. Even so, a very skilled 
 player could knock out an opponent with 50% damage even with 500% damage if they weren't knocked 
 out. Remember, the damage effects how far you are knocked back, not how strong your attacks are. 
 There also are items to help you such as a bat of smash ball. Smash ball let you use your final 
 smash when it is busted open. A final smash a very powerful move, each unique to every character.
 
  
  There are A LOT of things to do in Brawl, so I'm going to split them into groups in the form of 
 paragraphs.
  
  First I'm going to talk about the single player. This includes Subspace Emissary, Event Matches, 
 Stadium, Classic, and training.
  
  The main draw to single player the going to attract first time brawlers is the Subspace Emissary. 
 It has you going from stage to stage beating each level with the occasional boss at the end. It 
 is pretty straightforward and linear except in the beginning, where you have to chose whether to 
 play as Mario or Kirby, also which princess to save from Petey Pirana. It only changes which characters 
 you use first. In the end though, you will have all the character together. The SSE is alot like 
 adventure mode from Melee, exept that you don't have to play it with each character. The layout 
 to SSE is very similar to a platformer, exept with enemies. You could say it almost feels like 
 a game from a beat-em up genre. There are also golden boxes (usually hidden) that hold trophies, 
 CD's, and other secrets. There is also a regular blue box the will just hold regular items like 
 a beam sword and sometimes stickers. Stickers are used as collectibles and can enhance a characters 
 stats in SSE. SSE can also get pretty repetetive. The whole SSE will take you about 8 hours to 
 complete, and you are going to have to if you want to unlock everything.
  
  Next up is the Event Mode. The event mode has a total of 41 events (most of which will have to 
 be unlocked) that put under certain condition such as using a final smash, surviving a match, just 
 battling with 8 characters, and many others. The matches seem to be at a very good difficulty if 
 you play it on normal. in Melee, certain events seemed impossible (to me at least) even on easy. 
 Though from time to time, you will get frustrated at a certain event.
  
  The Stadium mode has everything from Melee, target smash, home-run contest, and multi-man brawl. 
 There is also another one, but it's a secret mode so I won't spoil it for you. Target test differs 
 from Melee's slightly, because in Melee, every character had there own target test. Besides that, 
 it is just going arounds a stage trying to hit all the targets. In Brawl, there are just 5 general 
 target teat levels the go into 5 levels. Home run contest just has try to damage a sandbag and 
 then hit with a bat to knock it far. The difference is that now, there is a wall around the area 
 so that you won't accidently knock it out with low damage. The wall isn't unbreakable however. 
 Multi-man brawl has you try to knock out opponents.
  
  Classic mode is simple. it has you going from one stage to another until you reach the end boss, 
 Master Hand. All together, there are 12 stages and 2 target tests.
  
  Training is even more simple. It lets you train with a character and you can control is the A. I. 
 moves, stands, attacks, runs, etc. Also what items appear. The mode it just to help you master 
 techniques.
  
  The Group mode is for multiplayer and has a Brawl mode, a tourney mode, and a special brawl.
 
  
  Brawl mode has just do a basic battle. It has many options such letting you set how long it goes, 
 if it is a stock, coin, or timed brawl, which items appear, etc. This is probably one of the best 
 parts of the game. It is just really addictive play a 4 player brawl with your friends.
  
  Tourney is just a basic tournament. It is easy to set up and can have up to 32 entries. There is 
 also a rotation option that you could use if you have more than 4 players. It is also usable in 
 Brawl mode.
  
  Special Brawl is jut a brawl mode with added effects. It can let you start a match giant, metal, 
 tiny, with curry, invisiable, with bunny ears, etc. Not much else to say.
  
  The vault is more like a collection of misc things, such as challenges, stickers and trophies, 
 the chronicle, masterpeices, stage builder, the album, and replays.
  
  The challenges are just hint for unlocking special stickers, CD's, and trophies that have to be 
 unlocked by completeing a task.
  
  Stickers and trophies lets you look at all your stickers and trophies. It also lets you arrange 
 them and take a picture of them. There is also something called coin launcher which lets you use 
 the coins you have collected (not the ones in coin matches) as ammos to shoot trophies to keep 
 them and shoot ships for bonuses such as stickers.
  
  The chronicle is a list of nintendo released game for all consoles (even the Game and Watch) as 
 of December 31,2007.
  
  Masterpieces allows you to play virtual console game demos for a limited amount of time.
  
 
  The stage builder lets you build your own stage (obviously) . It also allows you to send the stage 
 to friends or Nintendo (they look over it and if they like it they will send it to all wii systems 
 that accepted the smash service) . I will talk more about WiFi later.
  
  The album is the collection of snapshots you take and the replays are just plain replays you replayed 
 (again, obviously) . They can also be sent to friends or Nintendo.
  
  Misc things are the options, data, and WiFi.
  
  Options are self-explanitory, there options 
 to change the controls, music, when songs play on stages, etc.
  
  Data is just collection of notices, brawl records, and group records.
  
  Wifi allows you to 
 battle friends online, do multi-man brawls with them, and do the home-run contest together. There 
 also the option to battle anyone randomly online, but the options will always 2-minute brawl with 
 all items on. Also the brawl controls seem to be delayed. For example, if you press A for standard 
 attack, it will attack about around half-a-second later. 
  it can get pretty annoying. Also you can spectate other people's battles and bet your coins on 
 who is going to win. There is really no way of knowing, so i guess it's luck. The last thing for 
 WiFi is its Smash Service. Everyday a new photo, replay, and stage is taken from user submissions 
 and given to every one who accept the smash service.
  
  
  Graphics: It looks like a great enhancement from Melee. Everything runs in 480p, 16:9 and at 60 
 frames. Alot of places have detail, such as the stage Spear Pilliar. If you pause it and look under 
 the platforms, you can see markings. Also in Green Hill Zone, if you pause the game and look past 
 where the screen ends in the gameplay, you can see the rest of the Green Hill Zone. I'm also pretty 
 sure that is an exact replica of the original. Even so, there are also alot of other places that 
 are very under detailed and some places almost seem worse than Melee graphics.
  
  
  Sound: This might be the best soundtrack EVER! There are around 200 song (i'm pretty sure) and 
 there are alot of songs from all different games, including remixes, and even original soundtracks 
 from older games, even from the NES era. For the new songs, they usually required around 40 musicians! 
 The songs for the stages perfectly match the mood the stage is try to set and just improves the 
 brawls. The sound effects are just just perfect with each move, jump, puch, everything.
  
  
  Value: This is going to be played for years and years with it addictive multiplayer. Also with 
 a seemingly endless supply of stickers, CD's, and trophies to collect, it is going to take a while 
 to get them all. Plus add alot of secrets, challenges, and of course, WiFI, this is probably going 
 to be the best value for $50.00 you are ever going to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Royal_Fire
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  This is probably the best game on the wii so far. Super Smash Bros. Brawl is very very additive. 
 dont even bother renting this game before you buy it "JUST BUY THE GAME AND YOU'LL SEE" this game 
 will make you come back and back for some more cool solo or multiplayer action. if you had melee 
 this is better, packing with more characters, more stages (some previous stage included too) , you 
 can take snapshot, watch and save replay, plus another new thing is the Wi-Fi connection. Wi-Fi 
 makes it even better which is almost lag free online play. You can play with friends or with anyone. 
 By the way if you have your friend registered in you wii system and on brawl, u can trade snapshots, 
 replay, and custom stages (this game is getting better and better) When playing solo u can play 
 the classic or story mode ( the subspace emissary) when playing story mode you will progress thourgh 
 out different types of levels. and at some points you will have to fight with a boss character. 
 the boss fight are very cool! at sometimes there are challenging and there are some that are not, 
 but the boss fights are probably the best in the game if playing by yourself. If you have lotz 
 of friend, invite them to play brawl multiplayer with u and customize the match however you want 
 to play. For example with items or no items, survivor mode, or time limit its up to you. So do 
 your self a favor if you don't have this game, stop watching video of Super Smash Bros. Brawl and 
 buy it and then you can experience it for your self and you will see what i was talking about.. 
 Royal_Fire out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XXMadManVII
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  I have to admit, I was skeptical when my friend brought this game over. We played it all night. 
 My wife and sister got involved and the 4 player battles raged into the wee hours of the morning. 
 The only reason I stopped playing that first night was because I had to get a few hours of sleep 
 before I went to work. 
  Let start out with graphics and sound. Like you can imagine, the graphics are not gonna hold a 
 candle to the PS3 or 360, but it doesn't really matter. They are literally good enough. As is the 
 sound. Neither will win awards cross platform, but against other Wii games they are top notch. 
 
  Where this game really shines is game play and controls. I was a typical older brother growing 
 up. So as a result my sis is not such a good gamer, lol. She had no trouble picking up the controller 
 (she was using a Game Cube pad) and getting right into it. Nintendo did a awesome job making the 
 controls as simple as possible. You use two attack buttons, and a jump button along with a single 
 stick for movement... thats it. There is no half circle towards + strong punch to throw a fire ball 
 or X, X, Y, up, down, A, A crap to deal with. Its a easy game to get good at, but a tough one to master. 
 Anyone can button mash there way to victory, but a finesse win is much more satisfying. 
  With a roster of over 30 playable character, it definitely has the most of any fighter to date. 
 Each one has his/her own set of attacks that can be mastered. Different attacks have different 
 ranges and damages, so becoming familiar with each can take some time. But you will not mind playing 
 the dozens of throw backs that populate Smash Bros. I would have to say Ike is my favorite. Each 
 character also has different strengths and weaknesses, to master as well.
  In conclusion, the vast roster and the ease of play make this Super Smash Bros a must have for 
 ant Wii owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhazonJunkie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 8:07 am PT
Review:  Brawl is easily the best of the of the series, but its not quite perfect. Brawl has it all, from 
 new characters, a revamped story mode, and tons of collectibles and stages. This will easily last 
 fans a couple of years.
  
  The gameplay is almost exactly like Melee, which may turn off some. However, its still fun as hell 
 and it rarely gets old. The stages are alot more dynamic this time, so the action becomes alot 
 more intense. In addition to these new stages, you can create your own stage, which means in theory 
 you can play this game forever. However, the custom stage editor is too shallow, and I mostly spend 
 my time playing on the normal stages.
  
  The graphics are amazing for the wii, but it still isn't on par with the other consoles. But you 
 shouldn't be surprised about this, and I wasn't disappointed at all.
  
  Though online play is available, its kind of lacking. When you playing with random people, you 
 don't see their names, you can't talk to them, and your always stuck playing the 2-minute KO-fest. 
 You can also play with friends, after you take the time and effort to exchange friend codes. There 
 you can set taunts to say custom messages, which is pretty much pointless to me. 
  
  Another flaw in this game is that there are so many clones! Half of the un lockable characters 
 have the same moveset as another character just with slight power and speed tweaks.
  
  Even with these flaws, the good definitely outweighs the bad. And though it won't convince nintendo 
 haters to try this out, its certainly a must have for wii-owners everywhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyasian2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  Wow... Super Smash Bros. Brawl is fantastic, with the stage editor, unlock able music, tons of new 
 characters, stickers to collect that give you bonuses, the highly addictive coin launcher game, 
 challenges to complete, snapshots that you can do in game, and the exciting new adventure mode: 
 subspace emissary. Seriously if you own a wii and you don't have this game go out and buy it, this 
 is basically why the wii came out and this is why some people bought a wii... go buy this game it's 
 freakin tight and worth every cent. Another reason to buy the game is the new Wi-Fi feature that 
 works so well, it's virtually lag free, so you can play with kids in Japan without lag. Matches 
 can also be customized to your liking so you can take off the new smash balls if you hate them 
 (i personally love them cause they can turn the tables in a second resulting in very fast game 
 play) I also gave it a just right in difficulty cause you can choose your difficulty for everything. 
 So trust everyone that gave this game a 9.5 or better and go buy this game, it's easily best in 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nik_893
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  This game definitely met all of my expectations. It has a near perfect combination of characters, 
 stages, game modes, options etc..
  The variety of fighter choices allows for almost any playing style, and the new fighters definitely 
 add to this. The new modes such as rotation and the subspace emissary add to the possibilities.
 
  The Subspace Emissary is a vast improvement from the adventure mode in SSBM. At times the story 
 can be quite shallow, but overall it's a success. The Great Maze which is faced at the end of the 
 SSE seems daunting in the beginning, but is fairly easy once you understand it.
  The addition of stickers is very innovative, since they allow for powering up characters. The greatest 
 addition is definitely that of the smash ball, as all the players rush to get it, and it may prove 
 fatal for the fighters who didn't. Each fighter has a very unique smash attack, some are instant 
 KO's, some require preparation, some are useless on large stages and so the list goes on. 
  Overall Super Smash Bros. Brawl is an amazing video game, it revolutionizes fighting games, and 
 is an Instant Classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diddyj
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2008 6:23 am PT
Review:  Well, its been about seven years since SSBM has been released, so this game should be fresh and 
 ready to go..
  
  Graphics: to me, the graphics on this title are some of the best graphics the nintendo wii has 
 to offer.. so how can you go wrong on this game graphic wise?? Graphics get a 5-5 for me.
  
  Gameplay: gameplay is the most important part to video games.. Its quite similar to melee's gameplay, 
 but thats not a bad thing.. Melee's gameplay got a perfect 5-5 from me, so brawl's has even upgraded 
 more from melee which gives a perfect 5-5 as well from me..
  
  Difficulty: this game is not hard, but also not all that easy... sure you can beat up on nasty level 
 9's in brawl.. but if you think thats the same as human competitors, then your wrong.. each character 
 has their own unique ways to use them, its important that you master your fav. brawlers, so you 
 can compete with other human players.. so, it is quite easy against the computer, but against human 
 players, this might take some time...
  
  that about wraps up my review on this game... i can't find any flaws in this game accept for the 
 fact you can't do tag team tourneys... but, thats not enough to hold it back from a perfect 10-10...
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shenoly
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 1:38 am PT
Review:  I love to play this game, spend hours ... It has amazing graphics. Brilliant colors and very good 
 on even dark scenes. Sound is also very good. I love this game. It will be my favorite game. Can't 
 wait to see the next level It has amazing graphics. Brilliant colors and very good on even dark 
 scenes. Sound is also very good. I love this game. It will be my favorite game. Can't wait to see 
 the next levelIt has amazing graphics. Brilliant colors and very good on even dark scenes. Sound 
 is also very good. I love this game. It will be my favorite game. Can't wait to see the next level 
 It has amazing graphics. Brilliant colors and very good on even dark scenes. Sound is also very 
 good. I love this game. It will be my favorite game. Can't wait to see the next level It has amazing 
 graphics. Brilliant colors and very good on even dark scenes. Sound is also very good. I love this 
 game. It will be my favorite game. Can't wait to see the next level 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lovemenow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  Now you say "lovemenow??? what do you mean by glitch forks???" simple young domble dorf, this game 
 is almost glitch free.. its like Nintendo knew of the past Glitches that fans took advantage of 
 in the series to become 733t, and did their best to take them out to make the game even for all.. now 
 this doesn't make the game bad at all, but for hardcore fans this is sort of disappointing, the reason 
 the first 2 smash bros. were great even years after their releases was due to the fact that you 
 could become extremely good at the game from practicing those glitches and adding your own strategy 
 to it. im sure their will be some that find new glitches but, the "wavedash, L Cancelling, Dash Dancing 
 just to name a few will be missed..
  
  
  now with that said.. this game will still appeal to those new to the series, old to the series, and 
 really hardcore to the series like me.. its very simple to pick up the controls to the game, and 
 if the button scheme or just simply the control you play with don't suit your needs you have the 
 option to switch. but in my opinion the Game Cube controller is the best second is the classic, 
 third nun chuck, and may God have mercy on your soul the wii remote side ways should be your last 
 option.
  
  there are two attack buttons one for basic attacks and another for special. the other 2 are the 
 triggers which are for rolling blocking and air dodging. and z which is for a quick grab. you can 
 perform a grab by holding R or L then pressing A but i recommend using that for grabs after blocking 
 opponents attacks..
  
  you also have many options for the way you fight, coin matches which requires you to collect the 
 most coins to win the match, time matches, which require you to get the most kills in a match before 
 the times up.. and there standard stock matches which gives you a certain amount of lives in a battle.. you 
 can customize the matches further through special brawl, but you'll mostly find your self fighting 
 with a bunny hood or speed on high rather than anything else..
  
  multiplayer online is the new attraction to the series, and is the reason this game has basically 
 forced hard core players like me from melee.. imo of course.. you can now pit your skills against 
 anyone in the world who gives you their friend code. the rules are still the same an nothing changes 
 from the normal play.. yet when you play against anyone you have no say over anything in the match 
 all matches are 2 minutes in length and you cant use your custom taunts or even communicate with 
 anyone you play with.. and while im on the subject i must mention the lag issue that plagues soo 
 many online games.. with brawl this doesn't change.. unless your playing people in your city or nearby 
 in your state your gonna experience either low lag which really isnt bad.. or the worst extreme 
 lag which is unbearable.. which is why i recommend to all players to BUY A LAN ADAPTER its only 
 $32 US dollars so its much less than WiFi and cause relatively less lag.. i have one so i have no 
 lag with my two friends who live in my city and low lag with most people i play.
  
  and finally there's the single player aspect, which really isnt why anyone buys smash bros but i 
 must speak of it.. there is classic mode which is the same in the series you fight your way through 
 characters in the game until you reach MASTER HAND.. sorry about caps but WTF is with that hand 
 LOL.. then there's all star which is like classic but you have no lives and you fight every character 
 in the game with only 3 hearts at rest points.. event matches are the same from melee, you beat each 
 event by fulfilling special requirements until you finish them all and the stadium which has the 
 all too classic target test and the bring backs from melee the home run contest and the multiman 
 matches. and the main event to the single player the SUB SPACE EMISSARY!! is basically a full length 
 story which is new for the series, where you play through different characters stories until they 
 all end up at one point to fight the same enemy.. and it good to note that you can co-op with a 
 friend on pretty much most if not all single player aspects of the game now..
  
  now to wrap this up there are many unlockables and 35 characters 39 if you count each pokemon from 
 the pokemon trainer differently and count zero suit samus and sheik as separate characters. in short 
 this game will keep you busy for months and keep you coming back for years until they make another... 
 plus you can make your fighting style your own through years of honing.. this game requires skill 
 regardless of how simple it is and when you play against someone who has practiced and made their 
 own fighting style you'll see what i mean.. so practice become skilled.. and kick i say kick much 
 ass.. and i must state that there is a stage builder, and its a cool new addition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZidanneIX
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2008 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Ever since Nintendo exposed Super Smash Bros Brawl at E3, 
  thousands of gamers were anxious for the game's release.
  
  The game got postponed over three 
 times.
  Some gamers were upset over this.
  But what we got out of these extra months of waiting, 
  was more than we ever bargained for.
 
  
  This game is truly amazing.
  I have not seem a game like this for such a long time.
  But the main question is, is it really worth it?
  
  I for one say yes it is.
  For one the 
 graphics have improved since Melee.
  Everything is so detailed, crisp and clean looking.
  The frame rate never drops at all, unless via Wi-fi sometimes.
  Now for the sound, oh the sound. 
 
  I think this is one of the best soundtracks Nintendo ever put into a game.
  We have so many classic songs from memorable characters.
  I seriously think they should release 
 them onto a CD.
  
  Now onto the gameplay.
  For one, they have improved on the gameplay from Melee.
  It is now more easier to move around.
 
  Attacks and different movements are now easier to do.
  You also have a list of four different control schemes to use.
  You can use the Wii Remote with 
 the Nunchuck.
  Also you can use the Wii Remote on it's own.
  The Classic controller, and the Gamecube controller.
  A new technique that they put into Brawl 
 is the Final Smash.
  The Final Smash is an item where each player has to attack each other just to get the ball which 
 will make their character perform an awesome attack.
  Brawl also features an adventure mode called the Subspace Emissary.
  
  This Adventure Mode 
 is far better than the one featured in Melee.
  The cutscenes in this are just phenomenal.
  One of the best that I have ever seen on a Nintendo game.
  Everything moves so smoothly, it just 
 looks great.
  The story on the Subspace is not to die for, but it is still fun.
  Especially playing it with two players.
  You'll complete the Adventure mode in about eight or 
 so hours.
  It's a short time, but there is still so much else to do in Brawl.
  
  The trophies also make a return in Brawl.
  But this time instead of just your standard lottery, 
 it's a fun minigame.
  There are also stickers which you can collect, which are similar to trophies.
  Except, you can 
 use them to level up your characters in the Subspace.
  For the game you use a shooter to get different objects with collected coins.
  There are over 
 hundreds of trophies and stickers that you can collect.
  
  Events such as break the targets and homerun contest also appear.
  They are pretty similar to 
 Melee, but still rack up a lot of fun.
  You can also take snapshots in Brawl, just like in Melee.
  But now you can store your pictures 
 in the Wii or on an SD card.
  Also you can record your matches and send them to the Wii or SD as well.
  There are so many different 
 things that you can do in Brawl.
  
  Now for online play, via Wi-fi connection.
  This is one of the first games that you will actually get to experience a full out online Nintendo 
 game, which is fairly impressive in fact.
  The only thing that is a bit disappointing about online is that it can lag when you are in matches 
 from time to time.
  Also if you don't have any friend codes, you are limited to choosing how long you want your matches 
 or other options.
  
  Despite some minor flaws of the game, I still gave it a ten.
  This is in fact, one of the best games that I have ever played before.
  It's fun alone, but it's 
 a party with two or more people with you.
  The graphics are really impressive for a Wii game.
  The gameplay is great, because you get to 
 use different control schemes.
  Whatever you feel most comfortable using while playing the game.
  The music is phenomenal, it's 
 one of Nintendo's best for sure.
  You will relive many different memories with each song.
  The online play is a neat addition, but lags from time to time.
  Still, overall the Wi-fi is 
 very fun, especially when you have friends with you.
  The Adventure Mode is a fun little treat that is included with the game.
  The CG cutscenes in 
 it are absolutely incredible.
  The gameplay is short, but never the less fun.
  
  The wrap things up, you should definitely give this game a try.
  It has everything that a Nintendo 
 fan would want and more.
  I would really recommend this to anyone who owns a Wii.
  So what are you waiting for?
  Go out and buy Brawl, I am sure you won't regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuprSmshTaylor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  My Super Smash Bros. Brawl Game Review
  
  Please Note: Extreme spoilers. I have unlocked everything and I am sharing it all.
  
  Let me 
 tell you that this is a review, (duh) but I am also stating every aspect of the game. I thought 
 I should be thorough.
  
  Well, the wait is finally over, and Brawl is finally here. Is it all that it's hyped up to be? 
 Well, here's what I think about it. I'll cover the game in a few categories. (Be prepared, it's 
 a fairly long read. I'm covering about EVERYTHING in the game.)
  
  Presentation
  
  The presentation of SSBB (as I will refer to it throughout the review) is absolutely amazing. When 
 you pop in your dual-layered disc, you might find a new character to be unlocked! The 'Cannot read 
 disc' character! Too bad, I didn't unlock him. In all seriousness, this has been a slight and highly 
 upsetting problem for a few Wii users. However, you can send it into Nintendo, wait a few weeks, 
 and get it back good as new. (I wouldn't be surprised if they sent a brand new Wii home to you!) 
 Anyways, the game starts off with a brilliantly designed computer generated introduction movie. 
 It introduces each character in it's own unique 'habitat' and shows off a little of their moves. 
 Entering the main menu, you find yourself in one of the coolest game menus on Wii. It would have 
 been nice if they hadn't been cheap and made you navigate through the screens with the analog stick 
 and the 'A' button, and taken the time to make a nice cursor for the Wii remote. Here you see standard 
 Brawl and Solo modes (funny that they put multi player first and solo second; I know that it's 
 really made for multi player, but I thought that that's still funny.)
  
  Game play
  
  BRAWL~
  Without the slightest doubt, the multilayer content in SSBB is the reason it's one of 
 the most anticipated games in world history. You still have the classic, ever better game play 
 developed back in the 90's with the release of the  
 type of thing, Super Smash Bros. 64. The wonderful addition of the new items such as the gooey 
 bomb, the pitfall, and the team-healer really boosted the game play. Oh, and don't forget the Golden 
 Hammer. The lovely addition of stages like Battlefield and the resurrection of the ever-so-popular 
 Corneria and Hyrule Temple were needed also. In my opinion, I think that the backgrounds of the 
 stages could have been better, but that's getting a little picky. 
  Now, onto the most anticipated new part of SSBB - the new characters. Thank god that the big N 
 cut the useless clones like Roy (although the fan boys will kill you for saying it) even though 
 they were reimbursed in the form of another pathetic retard that has a sword with a weird point 
 and goes HIIIYAAAAAAAAAAHHH! every button you push. *COUGH*Ike*COUGH*. Pichu, and Dr. Mario were 
 also wiped away. A surprise cut was of Mewtwo, who was sadly replaced by the loser Pokemon of the 
 new generation; Lucario. Almost EXACTLY the same as Mewtwo, it's like the guy that dressed up for 
 Melee in the Mewtwo costume got a new one! =P I think Mewtwo should have stayed and Lucario should 
 have been forgotten. Myself, being a Luigi fan boy, =] would probably not have bought the game 
 if Luigi hadn't been in it. (Yeah, I'm that crazy about him. But not... like that. Yeah, some people 
 are that sick. Wow, I'm getting off topic.) A cut I think should have been made is the Ice Climbers. 
 Yeah, I know that some people like 'em and all but they're really old. (Literally. REALLY old.) 
 Also cut was Young Link, easily replaced by Toon Link. Another mistake? I think so. Not surprisingly, 
 Mr. Game & Watch is returning. 
  Now. Let's look at the characters entering the battle. First up, we've got Diddy Kong, from The 
 Donkey Kong series. I believe he's and OK character, but takes a little while to get used to get 
 used to. Ike. Ike. Ike. Ike..... Yeah. Can you spell LOSER? God, that's just my opinion. As I said 
 earlier... "Thank god that the big N cut the useless clones like Roy (although the fan boys will 
 kill you for saying it) even though they were reimbursed in the form of another pathetic retard 
 that has a sword with a weird point and goes HIIIYAAAAAAAAAAHHH! every button you push. *COUGH* 
 Ike *COUGH*." Anyways, next we have King Dedede. Really all he's good for is being fat and having 
 fun saying his name. My little brother calls him King Weeweewee. His inhale attack is pointless, 
 unless you count making him fatter and easier to hit, good. Mentioned above, Lucario. Same as Mewtwo. 
 Need I say more? We have Lucas, who is nearly an exact clone of Ness. Pointless much? Not as pointless 
 as Toon Link. After all, they are the same person. One of the better additions, is Meta Knight. 
 I am unaware of the relation to Kirby, as I only own Kirby: The Lost Crystal Shards for the Nintendo 
 64. He's really cool looking, and has some good solid attacks, even if they might be slightly annoying 
 (Especially A button spammers) . We've also got Pikmin & Olimar, AKA Captain Olimar from Pikmin 
 1 & 2. He's rarely used, but can be mastered. He's actually fairly good. Next we have my personal 
 favorite addition; Pit from Kid Icarus. Revived from the old SNES days, he stands proud once again 
 in the Brawl. He's got an absolutely unfair recovery, (I'm sure the fact that he's an angel with 
 wings should help you understand) but can be very annoying when spamming arrows or the left and 
 right B moves. Next we have the Pokemon Trainer. Having possession of Squirtle, Ivysaur, and Charizard, 
 he's pretty formidable. Not exactly appealing to more... 'mature' gamers though. We've got R. O. B. 
 next, or Robotic Operating Buddy from an old NES game where using a plastic robot named R. O. B. 
 was optional. Not exactly well known. He's great once you get the hang of things. Not even native 
 to the Wii console, we have the new non-Nintendo character, Solid Snake from the Metal Gear Solid 
 series. He's the master of guns and explosions, but lacks speed and tactics. If you like explosions, 
 rockets, and grenade launchers, Snake's your man. Probably the most anticipated character in SSBB, 
 we have Sonic the Hedgehog. He's a lean, blue, fightin' machine. (Wow, that was a retarded joke) 
 From our old friends over at SEGA, Sonic is invited to join the Brawl. Sadly, everyone seems to 
 use him and all he does is curl into a ball and run into people. =] We also have Wario, not one 
 of the better additions in my opinion. He farts and rides a motorcycle. Big deal. Last, but certainly 
 not least, we have Wolf from Star Fox. He's a quick cool fighter, and has many attacks. OK, now 
 we're done with the characters. Props if you're still reading, but we've still got a way to go.
 
  
  SOLO~
  Probably what everyone wants to see. First, we've got the subspace emissary. It's really the first 
 fully-fledged single player story in all the SSB games. I love the CG cut scenes, and the subtle 
 humor is priceless. It seems though, that some levels were just tacked on to make it longer. Also 
 some parts such as the great maze; were extremely tedious. The other modes offered such as All-Star 
 (AKA ???? on challenge board before all 35 characters are unlocked) are the same as Melee. Multi-Man-Melee 
 is the same. The home run contest is basically the same, other than the fact that the stage that 
 the bag is beaten on has a shield that can take a certain amount of damage. That certainly makes 
 it a lot easier to get at least 2500 feet. The boss battles mode is pretty self-explanatory, you 
 fight 10 people, 1 life, 3 heart containers. Similar to All-Star, with no continues. Not really 
 that hard. The training mode is exactly the same as Melee.
  
  NINTENDO WI-FI CONNECTION~
  There is a lot of controversy on this subject. There are two basic modes; With Friends and With 
 Anyone. There is also an options category. I will explain the With Friends part now. On the friends 
 screen, there are 4 buttons. Team-Multi-Man Brawl is where you have a friend and play any of the 
 multi man brawls. The same thing goes for the other button, Home Run Contest. Play coop or alternatively 
 here. There's also a standard brawl button and a friends roster button. The with anyone button 
 matches you with 3 others for a quick 2 minute match. It's really straight-forward, and sometimes 
 is annoying that you can't host matches or set match rules. Options menu lets you change the smash 
 service (receiving snapshots, replays, and stages from the big N every day) and turn match spectating 
 on or off. Onto an important aspect; lag. Due to the recent release of the game, the servers are 
 extremely clogged. Lag is horrible, and can EVEN freeze a system. Yes, this happened to me. It 
 sat in one frame for 10 minutes, until I turned my Wii off. I guess it will wear off as time goes 
 on. Voice chat was considered in the making of SSBB. However, because N is a big softie when it 
 comes to user-happiness, they left it out. Nope, not even a text chat. Just 4 preset sayings that 
 can be used with friends only. = [ Talk about mistake. Lag isn't as bad when playing friend matches. 
 Just make sure you've got good wireless internet!
  
  THE VAULT~
  The vault is where all the challenges, snapshots, replays, stickers, and trophies are held and 
 kept track of. Take a look at your trophies, stickers, challenges, snapshots, and replays all from 
 one, convenient menu. Then, there's the music. This is probably the most wonderful game soundtrack 
 in the history of the entire world. No joke. With over 150 music tracks, all the instant classics 
 are reborn, some remade. If it was a CD instead of a game, I'd buy a 200 track CD for 50 bucks. 
 Easy. That's how good it is.
  
  
  Graphics
  If the game play didn't get you, the graphics will. Some of the best on the Wii, among Super Mario 
 Galaxy and Metroid Prime 3: Corruption. The frame rate is better than ever, and you couldn't ask 
 for more. The computer generated cut scenes in the Subspace Emissary and the intro movie are some 
 of the best on the Wii, next to Metroid Prime 3 again. You will be blown away by the detail and 
 carefulness taken to create each character and level.
  
  Controls
  I think that Nintendo could have tried a bit more as far as incorporating the Wii's motion controls 
 into the game. Sure, most people will use the GC remote, but what about people that want a new, 
 innovative way to smash your brothers? (I made a funny! =p) Still, the controls are very responsive. 
 (Except for throwing items in certain directions using the Wii Remote and Nunchuk. For some reason 
 I always throw it up when I want to throw it sideways.)
  
  Lasting Appeal/Replay Value
  This is the ULTIMATE party game. Play with your friends for hours on end. You'll find yourself 
 always coming back to complete the SE 100%, or to complete every challenge.
  
  
  Well, that's it for my review. It wasn't as long as I had thought is was going to be, but It's 
 good anyways. Thanks for reading. (Oh, and kudos again, if you've finished reading this...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game-Master-58
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I played for less than 30 minutes and already I wish I had a wii with this game. I only played 
 multiplayer, but still I wanted to get it so badly. One awesome new feature is the final smashes. 
 They allow you to own opponents killing them, usually even from 0%. They can even kill multipule 
 opponents. One time someone let it off in mid-air and hit all three of us and KOd us all. Even 
 sometimes it will be more powerful with some people, but affecting play after. Example: Samus will 
 lose her super suit, turning into zero-suit samus. It's fast-paced, and fun. A great party game. 
 Even newbies will be able to kick butt atleast once every 3-minute round. New characters add to 
 the fun. Ike replaces roy, the pokemon (expect for pikachu) have been removed and pokemon trainer 
 and lucario has been added. R. O. B is a robot that has been added. This is one game that you HAVE 
 to have if you have a wii. You also can use a gamecube controller, adding fun to newbies.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilmaster72
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  The game that has all your favorite Nintendo characters (+2 others) gearing up to fight it out 
 in all sorts of arenas and matches across their several universes. Now the game has four modes 
 of control with everything updated from the last game. New characters and the ability to use the 
 c-stick whenever are the best additions along with new level and a new story. Only thing with the 
 story is that levels take like 9-12 mins thenu get to the last level and it takes 1-2 hours, what 
 is that about, seriously! Anyway great game, great characters, and GREAT!!! If you have a Wii go 
 out and buy this game right now if you don't already have it and if you don't have a Wii buy that 
 and the game at once! mario, Samus, Zero suit samus, pika, sonic, snake, kirby, zelda, link,  
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  
  Everyone is at your disposal along with new *challenges* to make the game feel like it has acheivments 
 like the Xbox 360 (nice add by Nintendo) .
  
  Buy this Game now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicknees93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  This is the best, most content pumped Super Smash Bros. to date. Not to mention it was probably 
 the most anticipated game of the year! Even if your not particularly good at games, you can pick 
 this right up and start playing. Great for parties, having a friend over, or even by yourself. 
 The Subspace Emmisary is an excellent addition to the already excellent classic mode. With all 
 the unlockable characters, you'll be playing for hours. The online play is exectued nearly perfectly. 
 There are some major hiccups however during online play. This only happens during the times when 
 the servers are overpopulated. Overall this game is an amazing addition to the Super Smash Bros. 
 series. I would reccomend it to ANYONE! So what are you doing still reading?! Go out and buy Super 
 Smash Bros. Brawl right now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ethanpaige
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Everyone remembers the first Super Smash Bros., where we first had the chance to duke it out between 
 our favorite Nintendo mascots. Everyone also remembers the drastic change to the fighting system 
 that occurred in the switch to Melee. While many favored the faster fighting style, many missed 
 the traditional fighting engine. Brawl finds itself between these two games; not too fast, not 
 too slow. Just right.
  
  With 30+ characters from all over the Nintendo universe at your disposal, it will certainly take 
 a while to try them all out and find which works best for you. Fox excels at quick, nimble fighting, 
 while Ike is a slower fighter who hits like a tank and takes enemies out with little effort. And 
 while all the characters fight differently, they are all balanced so no one fighter ever feels 
 unfair or broken. Nintendo has reached into their bag of mascots and pulled a number of new faces 
 for Brawl; Olimar, Ike, R. O. B., Meta Knight, Toon Link, Lucario, and many others. Two third party 
 characters also join the fray; Sonic and Snake. Nintendo promised a great selection of characters, 
 and they delivered.
  
  While all the characters are great, Nintendo didn't stop there. They crammed as much nostalgia 
 into this game as they possibly could, and It's staggering just how much you can unlock. 200+ songs, 
 demos of former masterpieces in all their glory, an astronomical amount of trophies, stickers, 
 and 40+ levels. They also added a custom stage designer, and the ability to save and share replays 
 and screenshots from your brawls. And of course, there's Wi-Fi to battle with your friends.
  
  The Wi-Fi in general works quite well. Well, with friends at least. Games with friends are 
 relatively lag-free, and are just as enjoyable as you'd expect them to be. However, random matches 
 tend to be lag-fests and are sometimes near impossible to fight in. Hopefully Nintendo fixes this 
 in the near future.
  
  And so, there you have it. Easily the best game in the Smash Bros. series, and easily the best 
 game to grace the Wii so far this year. This is a must own for any self respecting Nintendo fan. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thug2Wasteland
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Well the Smash Era Has return with a bigger Roaster and better concpet of gameplay this game has 
 offically become the best yet!
  
  Well The Fun mutiplayer brawling has return and new charcters too.
  People like Pit, Meta Knight, and 
 Zero Suit Samus are in this game
  
  Promo Charcters like Solid snake from the metal gear solid sereis, and sonic the hedgehog are apearing 
 in brawls
  
  Graphic 9/10 
  From the new looks to rich amosphere of the arenas the art, Visuals, and looks better then the 
 predicessor from the rich enviorment to very detailed sencery the game is great to look at.
  
  Sound 10/10
  In my opinion the soundtrack is awesome with new remixes like angel island to 
 the origital songs the soundtrack combines both new and old
  Some i didn't like the "last chance" the bes have found is the song "Shin Onigashima" 
  
  Gameplay 
 10/10
  The Same controls from the predcessor to new variations lof controls like the wii-remote, and the 
 classic controler, the best varitation i found is the wii-remote (horizontally) if feels new and 
 the scheme of the controls give you a fresh new start.
  
  Control 9.0/10
  
  Brawl is a very a amzing game and i hope you like it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceking003
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  I think i can only name about 3 bad things about Super Smash Bros newest game, and i want to get 
 them out of the way fast. 1st off on the online multipayer it takes forever to add freinds, and 
 if it wasnt for the special forum here on gamespot, i wouldnt have any right now. 2nd the boss 
 battles mode you get for beating the game is just the same stuff in order, if you beat the story 
 mode, there is no real challenge here, because you have beat them all already. 3rd, they have only 
 supplied 41 events! It took me maybe two hours total to beat them all. Now that I have that out 
 of the way.. time for the good. The online multiplayer works to near perfection if you have freinds 
 or not. The story mode is long and challenging. There is a player suited to every person from this 
 planet and then some. And the final boss is a true final boss, makes you want to throw your controller 
 at him.
  All in all, i didnt need to think twice to give this game a ten.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Da_Azure_Knight
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  I waited patiently for months and months for brawl to come out, over many different delays. When 
 i finally got it, i was astonished at how far the game had come since melee. The graphics were 
 majorly improved, the physics were more realistic and above all, the new stages were incredible. 
 Personally, however, i did not completely like the SSE. Although the cutscenes and story were fantastic, 
 the platforming stages were very dull, with the exception of the great maze. Also, it made the 
 collection of all the characters extremely easy as well. It was enjoyable nontheless, and the other 
 solo modes were all incredibly better than melee's. On the characters, i was impressed with the 
 balancing, except with pit :) . However, i was very sad to see that there were still a huge number 
 of clones, and i was very sad that so many franchises were neglected just to be put in assist trophies, 
 when they could have been excellent real characters... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acein12
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 9, 2009 6:28 am PT
Review:  Welp, I'm gonna say it. Brawl is better than Melee, and I'm going to explain why.
  
  -Concept- Fighting, and there are many variations: competitive, party, team. You can choose if 
 you want items on or off and even if you go more in depth, what items you want on. You can even 
 turn off crates now. And the new final smashs are also control able. Which are new super specials 
 to work to your advantage. 
  
  -Gameplay- with tons of new modes, and MUCH more customization from Melee. You'll always find something 
 to do. There are also 35 unlockable characters. 
  They said that not everyone would be returning, we now know they're Mewtwo (who was crucified by 
 competitve players during the tier wars, but was replaced by someone I think is better) Young Link 
 (replaced by someone of the same nature) Pichu (who was very usless) Roy (replaced by Ike) Dr. Mario 
 (unhelpable clone) and while people may seem like clones in this game, they aren't because everyone 
 needs different strategies to use. Unlike before. It also has some of the more popular stages from 
 Melee.
  
  -Graphics- Very good for a Wii game, probably the best under Mario Galaxy.
  
  Sound- Great! Largest OST, over 300 songs!! All of which sound great! Not too mention 10,00 remixes 
 of one song!
  
  Replay value- extremly low
  
  Nintendo had lots of polls, asking people what they want in this game, and it came out great! Every 
 character is usable, gameplay can be competitve.
  
  br / 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silent-Assasin7
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  So, Super Smash Bros. Brawl is finally here. But did it live up to the hype?
  
  I believe it did for the most part. Once again, Nintendo delivers us a very unique and entertaining 
 fighter/platformer experience. Old characters return, and a massive lineup of brand new ones come 
 join the fight. Most characters have their own original moves and styles, so you won't see too 
 many clones, which is always a good thing. Multiplayer is still as fun as ever. I don't think you'll 
 be able to find a better four player fighting game (heck, I'm not even sure if there are any other 
 four player fighting games) out there. 
  
  Brawl does everything that Melee did.... and not too much else. Other than the added characters 
 and new maps, nothing has really changed. I've heard many people refer to it as a Melee expansion, 
 but I wouldn't go so far as to say that. With Smash Bros., changes to the game are a double edged 
 sword. You make changes, everyone likes the originality, but you change too much and you lose the 
 core feel of the game that everyone loves.
  
  So while it may feel very familiar to veteran Melee players, it sure doesn't take away from any 
 of the good fun that is offered. The single player adventure game isn't so good, majority of the 
 levels are tedious and some are just flat our frustrating, but who really cares right? No one in 
 their right mind is going out to buy Super Smash bros. for the campaign, they're going to buy it 
 to spend endless hours playing multiplayer with their buddies and the AI.
  
  So, overall, I'd say this game is definitely worth playing, especially considering the dismal Wii 
 lineup so far. I don't think it's a dead on perfect 10/10 like a lot of people are saying, but 
 it's definitely a very nice way to start off the gaming year of 08 (March is pretty early) , and 
 should keep players more than happy until the next installment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steel_Rain777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Smash Brothers, every Nintendo fan boys dream of being able to pick one of their favorite mascots 
 from the big N, and beat the ever-loving stuffing out of each other. Playing the original on the 
 N64 was great, and once the Gamecube hit, and we promised a sequel, i can seriously say I was ecstatic. 
 Super Smash Brothers Melee is one of my favorite games of all time (and it still is to this day) . 
 Melee improved on so many mechanics of the original as well as having many new aspects that worked 
 great. It was one hell of a sequel.
  
  Now with Brawl, I was to believe we would receive that kind of sequel, but sadly it is a mixed 
 bag for me. Don't get me wrong, Brawl is still one great game, soem of the best multiplayer action 
 you get on one console (or online) . But the fact of the matter is, Nintendo didn't shy away to heavily 
 on the Melee formula, making Brawl feel somewhat of a clone to it's predecessor.
  
  Although The smash series was never intended to be a single-player romp, it's nice that their are 
 a few single-player features in this entry. Stadium mode and Classic are brought back, but the 
 new Subspace Emissary is introduced in this title. Nintendo's take on a whole new adventure mode 
 for the Smash universe. It's a nice addition, but unfortunately it feels tacked on. It's fun at 
 first but the repetition, lack of voice-overs whatsoever, and boring enemies will probably turn 
 many off. the mode seems to be naturally 7-9 hours long, so it can tick off those who just want 
 it to end.
  
  the Smash series always shined in it's multiplayer component, and in Brawl it is no different. 
 For some reason, however, it just doesn't seem as fun as Melee. I would find myself playing Melee 
 for hours on end, but Brawl i can only play for a max of 2 hours or less (with 4-players mind you, 
 not the single-player modes) , thereafter having to play somethign else. This can due to the fact 
 that it feels like a clone at many times, besides Final Smashes or cause it seems slower-paced 
 than Melee. To me it's these two reasons as well as the axing of certain sound effects. I'm sorry, 
 but these style of games (fighters, beat-em up, button mashers) have to have good sound effects. 
 Brawl took away many of the whacks and thumps i used to love in Melee, like the sound of the bat 
 when it hits someone's head after being thrown (it sounds really stupid now) or the loud smack from 
 Luigi's chop. Music on the other hand is really great in this title, offering up classics from 
 the Mario, Zelda, and Metal Gear series. Graphics on the other hand is a pure mixed bag of confusion. 
 The game does not look as good as Super Mario Galaxy or Metroid Prime 3, but at times can look 
 real great. But many times it can look blocky and blurry and can tend to look as good as Melee, 
 sometimes worse. I'm playing on a 1080p Sony Bravia LCD, it could be Wii games just don't look 
 goood on LCD's only DLP monitors.... I don't know.
  
  Now on the Wii, we can take multiplayer online through Wi-fi Connection. Here is one of the features 
 I was must looking forward to in Brawl, but feel like we all received the shaft. Being able to 
 play friends is fun, but the fact that Nintendo is still using it's hokey friend-code system is 
 stupid and unnecessary. Friend matches allow, just about as much customization as if you were playing 
 in the same room, but "Anyone Matches" allow for only a 2-minute romp with no customization to 
 be found anywhere. I don't who's idea that was, but it was a stupid one. Plus the fact you can 
 only have four-preset 20 character phrases as a means of communicating is uber-lame. WFC in this 
 game is a sure miss, which I hope is impoved upon greatly.
  
  The game offers up a total of 35 playable characters this time around. May seem a lot, but there 
 are many clones to be seen, far to resembling of other characters in the game or past entries. 
 Solid Snake, Metaknight, Olimar, Sonic, and Pit are great additions, but characters like Toon Link, 
 Wolf, Falco, Ness, Lucario, Marth, were not needed for being to similar to other characters. the 
 roster is good, but I was hoping for more varied cast.
  
  Brawl is a solid title, but I wouldn't go as far as saying it's the true sequel to Smash Brothers 
 Melee. It's more of an updated Melee with somewhat better graphics (at times) , a handful of new 
 stages and characters, and final smashes. I still have my copy of Melee, I would suggest others 
 to keep it as well. It's still a classic to this day, and I cansee myself going back to it, even 
 though I have Brawl. Nintendo did many things right with this entry, but it didn't do enough significant 
 changes to make Brawl stand out on its own. Hopefully the sequel will have less clone characters, 
 vastly improved online mechanics, as well as true sequel feel. Fans of the series, I recommend 
 purchase, no doubt about that. But, do not expect it to be a big change over Melee, or you will 
 be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamEs4eVr
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Okay it took a long time for this game to finally come out and it was definately worth the wait. 
 First off the multiplayer is better than melee because of the added final smashes and a few other 
 added items, otherwise it actually was pretty much the same. I can't say anything about the online 
 multiplayer but I've heard from plenty of sources, including gamespot that it is virtually lag-free. 
 The thing that actually really amazed was its single player campaign. It actually had somewhat 
 of a story to it unlike its predeccesor. Okay the maze was kind of annoying but once you found 
 out where to go it wasn't that bad. Also all the same minigames are back and they have been upgraded 
 so now the sandbag won't fall of the stupid platform when I'm weakening it. One thing that did 
 bother me though was that most of the returning characters had the same attacks; some of them I 
 would have hoped would get new attacks but its alright anyway. One last thing, you might want to 
 get a wii classic controller or at least use an old gamecube controller if you had one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stephano_Chelio
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  the smash bros games got good with melee, i didnt care for the first one very much. brawl is everything 
 that we wanted in melee and more especially the whole pick ur music thing, thats pretty hot. the 
 only problems i would say were that although there are like 35 characters i only end up using like 
 3 and some of them like olimar and lucario are worthless. the stage editor had a lot of potential 
 but doesnt have enough space or selection for the parts u add. The subspace emissary was like super 
 fun for the first part then it got a little boring as the levels got so repetitive and i really 
 didnt like the whole last level... although it was about as close as it got to a real adventure 
 game. on the plus side i really like the new levels and the new co-op features except for the events 
 which are no challenge at all unless u play on hard. I liked how all the target smashes are all 
 the same for every character, cuz i hate that stuff. The final smashes are really cool to look 
 and i like how they arent just instant finishers but instead more like just strong attacks. online 
 was alright but i still think nintendo should grow up past friend codes. awesome game and like 
 hte best wii game probably ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sheeprcute
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Improvements-
  -You can use the c-stick in everything now instead of just the multiplayer matches. 
  -There 
 is a nice sum of gameplay added due to the story mode that brawl has. I find this the biggest improvement.
 
  -There are a load of new charecters and courses.
  -The graphics are so much better than the earlier versions.
  -A lot of new items.
  -There are 
 so many new features its hard to list them all.
  
  
  Controls-
  -There are five different control schemes but most people find the classic controller or the gamecube 
 controller to be the best choice.
  -The controls are fine generally there is one slight problem. The c-stick smash is less responsive 
 than it should. Besides that the controls work fine
  
  Gameplay-
  -The gameplay is what you would expect from a Super Smash Bros game.
  -The non gamecube controlls 
 seem awkward to people who played the other games.
  
  Things that make the game awesome-
  -The game boosts so much game time it is insane. Ive probably played it for 30 hours and I have 
 only scratched the surface.
  -The charecter list rocks. Nintendo hit it right on the spot. They added almost all of the right 
 charecters. 
  -Its a button mashy and it require skill and strategy at the same time. This is a hard task to 
 pull off. 
  
  Charecters
  -They added a hoard of new charecters thate everyone loves. Such as Solid snake, sonic, olimar, 
 diddy kong, and even meta knight.
  -However I also said why when I first started playing this game.\
  -For instance why did NIntendo 
 add Pitt from Kid Icarus. He has been in one game ONE game from like 11years ago. I personally 
 never played this game and I had no idea who Pitt was until SSBB came out.
  -Also no matter how awesome it is that they added Olimar (from pikmin) he kinda stinks. He is completely 
 hands down the worst charecter. His attacks stink. His whistle is pointless. You cant throw your 
 pikmin very far while they are easy to lose in the first place. He is even worse when he does lose 
 his pkmin.
  - Despite all these bad things he is still my favorite charecter because Pikmin was the best game 
 I ever played.
  -Instead of Pitt I think Mr. Working Online Play would have been a better edition
  
  After 
 all of this the biggest problem with this game is the "Online Play "
  -As of right now it simply does not work. It lags. It freezes. The server is unreliable and it 
 disconects easily.
  -It is near to impossible to find a working match unless you arrange a private match using friend 
 codes : ( 
  
  
  All in all SSBB rocks it is a must buy for any one who is slightly interested in the earlier versions
 
  
  It does a good job of fixing problems while creating new problems as well.
  One of the best games of the year so far.
  I highly recommend it for anyone.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coltscardfan
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  SSBB is the best game ever. There is so many things to do during the game. Anyone can easliy spend 
 months playing this game. Ane with so many chacters there is someone for everyone in this game. 
 You can play the adventure mode The Subspace Epissay which can easily take a couple hours or play 
 the classic mode alot Or you can play vs each other which is great . I mean whats not fun kicking 
 someones but with Mario or pichacu or Pit. And with all the other features like home runs its great 
 .Where you chose a player and then get a bat and see how far you can hit it .You can also do different 
 challages like defeatind Browser and Dedede. there is something for everyone in this game. There 
 is also All-Star mode where you take on different people in the game at the same time. You can 
 make a special braw where your man can be matel or invisable or pretty mich anything you want 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suspeko0o
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  ok so i never owned the previous smash brothers games. ive only played it at my buddies place so 
 im not gonna pretend like im an expert on the franchise. that came to be evidently true the first 
 time i played my new copy of brawl versus a veteran 1 on 1. i was thoroughly stomped, beat down, 
 hacked slashed and repeatedly launched off the stage. ( i still have yet to get my revenge) this 
 shows that the game is easy to pick up on but not the type of fighter where a rookie can just button 
 mash theyre way to a lucky victory. infact, the game takes a while to learn the individual moves 
 of each character wich makes it fun. its a blast to play with 4 people or against the computer. 
 Brawl also has a sidescrolling game in it wich is very addictive. you'll keep wanting to play to 
 the next level in hopes of seeing the next cut scene or character available. this is further complicated 
 by collecting stickers which are used to upgrade your characters earned and can give them special 
 abilities. there are many collectibles such as music scores, classic game demos, and trophies. 
 so as a newcomer to the franchise, ive been impressed by the depth of what the game has to offer. 
 one of the main attactions i had to purchasing this game was the online functions. One of my friends 
 told me he had a copy so i was looking forward to beating his buttocks from the comfort of my own 
 living room. the friend code matches dont have any noticeable lag but the random matches seemed 
 to once in a while or might have had errors starting them. the level creator is fun and easy to 
 pick up. the replays and photo options are also fun and interesting. all in all, the games graphics 
 are good and are set to be displayed on an hd tv. the gameplay is balanced and addictive, the music 
 is robust and the sound effects are authentic. youll want to immitate pikachus battle screams, 
 and recognize classic mario game sound effects and songs. in my opinion this is one of the best 
 wii games, and the more i play it im starting to wonder if this could be on my list of top ten 
 fighting games of all time. definitly a must have for the wii.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoPdude123
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  graphics: 10/10
  
  gameplay: 9.9/10
  
  sound: 10/10
  
  What does this add up to? One of the best games I have played in my life. I was so excited when 
 my dad showed me it. I have been playing it for about 2 weeks now and it is so fun. I have every 
 character in the game and almost every stage. 
  
  What is different about brawl from melee is that it has an all new adventure mode called the subspace 
 emissary. The difficulty is a little challanging at times, buy for the most part it is easy. I 
 could go on for days telling you about all the unlockables, including characters, stages, trophies, 
 stickers, music, new modes, and more. Also, for $50.00 bucks it is a great buy. I would highly 
 recomend this game to any nintendo fan out there. As the video review saysIt is likely to be 
 a game that you will be returning to again and again." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teh-pwns-the
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Lets start with subspace
  I absolutely hated co op with it but thats the great thing you dont have to do coop, the game is 
 actually magnificent on single player and once you beat it you feel the greatest sense of accomplishment 
 ever, no joke.
  
  Classic mode
  This is much longer then in the previous games which makes it more difficult and more fun in my 
 opinion, oh and they got rid of that annoying race to the finish deal YAY
  
  Event matches
  As always I enjoy the event matches a lot and this time they added a whole new 
 set of coop event matches, amazing, yes i think so.
  
  Character Line Up
  Two words, completely epic, however i despise snake with all my heart, yet i hear some people like 
 him so maybe its just me.
  
  Online
  At the moment this is kinda dissapointing but im sure when nintendo has the time to get servers 
 up and running it will be just fine and there will not be so many annoying people whining about 
 it
  
  Normal multiplayer
  As always normal multiplayer is the thrilling strategic slugfest that has made the series what 
 it is
  
  Extras
  This game is so packed full of extras it will take people years to beat it 100 percent and if you 
 did, you would probably just explode with satisfaction
  
  Cut Scenes
  EPIC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardcore_nate
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  About a couple days ago, I got o my friends house. There it was, SSBB. I picked it up, heavens 
 light was shining down on it. Just joking, we put it in, and played it. I wasnt impressed at all! 
 Here is more depth in my review.
  -Graphics
  * At times very glitchy and blocky.
  * They have a great look too them also. Very quirky.
  
  -Gameplay
  *Basic. Is it a good thing? 
 You tell me.
  * Fun, kinda. Repetitive? YES!
  
  -Sound
  * Good, but not great.
  
  -Extra Content
  * Very cool level building.
  * Replay videos that you have made.
  I know 
 the Wii doesnt have great graphics, and I'm not expecting that, but I was looking for some effort. 
 Now some might and will argue with me about this fact and I dont blame them, but it feels to me 
 like this is an unfinished game. The hype was enormous and I think that could make a game worse.
 
  Now, my friend loves it, but I think it wasnt fun, and very simple and easy! 
  Hey! Sometimes I want a challenge and this game didn't give it to me!
  
  -Rent: Yes
  -Buy: 
 No ( Doesnt matter if you are a 'fan' ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmboy1960
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  After the long wait super smash bros brawl is finally here! You probably thinking is this a dream? 
 No it isn't! Its here and he comes out with a bang! Where can i start. Well the variety of characters 
 is GREAT. Some do more damage then others like DonkeyKong but is slower while less damage Like 
 diddy kong but alot faster. You start out with about 15-20 Characters (At an estimate) , but you 
 wont have snake in the begging, sorry to dissapoint. Theres about 10 more characters to unlock. 
 You can unlock most of them through story mode, but three more wont be unlocked, youll have to 
 figure out how to get them another way. The Story mode is great but some stages where a bit tedious. 
 Some weren't needed. There was a great ending, which i cant tell you =P. Its a great story, it'll 
 last you about 10 hours and i didn't get much replay factor though. Also has about 30 maps or so. 
 Theres also a stage builder which is great, theres tons more about this game but just buy the game, 
 its a MUST BUY. Now to the PROS and CONS
  
  Pros: Great sequal, character variety, long story mode, great graphics for Wii, One of the best 
 games for Wii, MUST BUY, for all ages even though its rated T but its not exactly THAT violent, 
 adults can even play it, its not too hard too learn too,
  
  Mixed emotions: Map maker cant be uploaded online, But i was thinking what happened if someone 
 built a REAL cruddy map and so then when you join you basically fall instantly.
  
  CONS: Sometimes camera can be a bit dumb, but it doesn't happen too much were its THAT much of 
 a problem. Some characters are reapeats and only have like 1 skills changed. (For example character 
 1 and character 2. Character 2 is the same as 1 but has one change in skill) 
  
  Not too many Cons though as i said, MUST BUY GAME
  
  Time Line Of BRAWL
  
  Play through 
 story mode: 10 hours
  Unlock other characters: 20 Minutes
  Play Brawl with all unlocked characters (With computers) : 5 hours
  Whatch all the videos from 
 the story mode: 1 hours
  Play events: 2 hours
  Play mini-games: 1 hour
  Mess with map maker: 1hour and 40 minutes
  Online: TONS OF HOURS
  Which comes to about a total 
 of 21 hours + TONS OF HOURS
  ~^REVOLUTIONARY GAME^~
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: george_is_link6
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  I got this game midnight the time it came out, and I havn't stopped playing it except for writing 
 this review. This game is huge, like a pit where u cant ever reach the bottom. So I'm gonna do 
 this in parts
  
  Multiplayer: Everyone knows this is what smash is about, and they brought it back more than ever. 
 The multiplayer is flawless. Fight and fight, and you'll never get tired of it. Great items to 
 use, like blast box, all kinds of bombs, boxes, bats, assist trophies and anything u can think 
 of. And the greatest item of all, the...
  
  Smash Ball: Grab this and you've almost got a surefire kill (or 3) . Once this comes on screen, its 
 going to be a mad dash for it, whether you want to use it, or you just don't want the other guys 
 to use it. This also may leave you open for a kill, though, so if you see anyone with at least 
 100% chasing a smash ball, it's a perfect chance to finish them off
  
  Learning Curve: Litterally a pick up and play game, anyone can just play it. I have been playing 
 this game nonstop, and a kid who hadnt ever played smash before beat me as snake! Just pick up 
 a controller and you'll find yourself having the time of your life.
  
  Caracters: Finally! No copy charaters! Though characters such as Toon Link and Link, or Fox with 
 Falco and Wolf may seem similar, they all have unique attacks and skill. Every character has different 
 talents and skills, and you won't ever find yourself complaining about one character being insanely 
 better than another
  
  Vault: The vault is great, and includes awesome things such as stage builder, pictures and films. 
 The stage builder doesn't have as much items as i wished, and unfortunately has a very unreasonable 
 cap limit, but it is enjoyable to make stages the way you want them. Unlike melee, where you have 
 to go to a special mode to take photos, you can take photos in the middle of a brawl, and have 
 it angled any way you want it. You can also film any match or taget test you want to, so if you 
 dominate a match, record it! Also, you can send pictures, stages and videos over to your friends 
 online. There is also a masterpiece section, but it feels like you're only playing the game for 
 a few seconds, so you can pass on that section. Finally...
  
  Online!: An amazing addition to this game, online has joined the brawl. You can play against friends 
 with words set to our taunts to make fun of them as you knocked them off the edge, completely lag 
 free, or just playing random people, with the occasional lag match, is amazingly fun. The spectator 
 mode is enjoyable too, with you yalling at the tv wondering why the guy you voted for just stands 
 there while another guy gets the smash ball.
  
  So all in all, Smash bros is easily in the top three greatest games of all time, and is enough 
 reason to buy a wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Auroni
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Before going into this review I just want to state a couple things. Melee is one of my favourite 
 games of all time, I do not own a Wii but I have played Brawl at my friends house for hours and 
 I have played almost every single mode and have had a full Brawl experience.
  
  Let's start with the single player campaign. The Subspace missionary is entertaining but gets far 
 too repetitive by the end of it. It's nice to see all the Nintendo characters getting together 
 to fight an unknown 'Big Bad' who is terrorizing all the Nintendo worlds. However, the story takes 
 7 hours and after one or two theres really no point to continue playing it because the gameplay 
 just gets way too repetitive. And at the end of the game you have to go through a maze which is 
 basically the entire game again and takes roughly two hours. And the storyline just comes to an 
 end with some random moments which includes Sega mascot Sonic. While the single player experience 
 has always been a big meh in the Smash series, Brawl actually takes very good steps to improve 
 it. I just wish that the characters would talk because the cutscenes, while entertaining, are also 
 boring because there is no dialogue in the game.
  
  Now I always believe that a game either has to have a gripping storyline or an amazing multiplayer 
 experience. (or both ) What Smash lacks in its single player campaign it shines in its multiplayer. 
 Melee's multiplayer was amazing. The problem is that Melee is now 6 years old and most people want 
 a unique experience. Brawl adds only adds one major thing to the multiplayer experience - Smash 
 Attacks. Smash Attacks are fun for awhile but you'll turn them off eventually. These attacks change 
 the gameplay for the worse. Hardcore Brawlers will most likely take off items anyway. 
  
  Brawl also adds a dozen or so new characters to the franchise. While some of them are unique (Snake, 
 Olimar, Ike) , most of them are just clones of other people (Toon Link, Wolf, Lucario) . 
  
  Melee was almost perfect because it improved the original game in many ways. Brawl is basically 
 Melee except they forgot to improve the mistakes that Melee made. The characters are still clones 
 and that was a huge complaint that most people had with the original game. 
  
  The other big complaint was that online was nonexistant in Melee. Unfortunately, my Brawl online 
 experience was horrible. It took me 15 minutes to finally get in a game and of course the only 
 type of match you can play is a 2 minute brawl which is horrible. No one in their right mind wants 
 to play timed, they want to play stock. Also, I really despise how you can only play with 1 player 
 through searching for games. Now I know most people say Friend Codes is where its at but the only 
 people you'll really be playing with are people who own a Wii near your house. I'd rather have 
 people come over and play if I'm playing with people I know in real life. And I just want to state 
 that I played one game with my friend who lived a couple blocks away and there was lag. My PERSONAL 
 online experience with this game was broken and for such a multiplayer game thats just not acceptable.
 
  
  Besides the online, Brawl has a huge lifespan that's definitely worth checking out. Collecting 
 the trophies, unlocking the stages and people, and accomplishing all the challenges and events 
 are worth it. I especially enjoyed the Boss Battle modes. The music in the game is amazing. Every 
 classic Nintendo, Sonic, and Metal Gear song are includes in the game. Gerudo Valley theme definitely 
 brings back memories. Also, the build your own stage editor is a very nice addition that unfortunately 
 again could be further utilized in future games in the franchise if there are more. 
  
  
  Overall, Smash Bros Brawl feels more like Melee. Nintendo decided to play it safe instead of expanding 
 the experience and making a huge leap like Melee did from the original. The game is still a definite 
 purchase for Wii owners and has a great multiplayer experience even though the online is broken. 
 My only suggestions is that (if there is another Smash game) the online play is done right, more 
 characters are added that are actually unique, and there are bigger flat stages that don't really 
 have alot going on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grognard
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2008 7:38 am PT
Review:  SSBB represents the latest example of the Nintendo-generation of journalists over-rating a solid, 
 but hardly spectacular game. The game offers good graphics and sound for a Wii game as well as 
 solid controls. There are a plethora of levels and characters and the game is definitely targeted 
 to revival-tent Nintendophiles with a wealth of fan-service offerings.
  
  However, if you take away the Nintendo skins you are left with a fairly basic brawler that simply 
 rehashes what the industry has been offering for well over a decade. Nintendo's aversion to online 
 gaming is in full evidence with the lack of voicechat and other features which have long been standard 
 in the gaming community and actually getting into and completing a match has been hit or miss shortly 
 after release.
  
  While the levels are amusingly themed there is a heavy does of random luck involved with the dropped 
 items/placement which does help level the playing field but discourages skill in favor of luck. 
 SSBB offers many hours of nostalgic fun for fans of Nintendo franchises but hardly deserves the 
 ridiculously high scores it has been receiving as is quite common with major Nintendo titles (Zelda, 
 Mario, etc.) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: havik0666
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2008 6:38 am PT
Review:  I think everyone was waiting for this game. The game concept is the same has the others smash bros 
 (snap your ennemy the most harder you can to make it fly like a little bird) . We can see in this 
 one a lot of classic characters of others smash and some newcomers very interresing. In all game 
 mode, you can play in co-op with your friend in story mode, event mode, all star, boss battle and all 
 the rest, that was one of the famous thing that I really like! You have a lot of nice characters 
 with there own special attack and own potential. The versus mode is very nice, It's a great game 
 for a party or for kids, the gameplay isn't easy with the Wii mode and that's very *******!!!! But 
 well, you can plog a game cube controller and that will be more easy for everyone. For the Wii, the 
 game graphics and music are just too good (never see a so beautifull game on the Wii..... Exept 
 No more Heroes) . Well, here is my technical list:
  
  Graphics: 9/10 
  -The most beautifull graphics for the Wii!!!!
  
  Gameplay: 8.5/10
  -the same has the others, but 
 classic never die
  
  Story line: 9/10
  -good story for a smash bros with a average of 10 hours only for this mode!
  
  Positive of 
 this game: 9.5/10
  -You can create your own stage, this is soooooooooo cool!!!
  -the music is always nice.
  -They set a arrival like in the one of the N64 (Captain Falco arrive 
 in his car, like this what...)
  -Fair challenge when you play with friends
  
  Negative of this game: 8.5/10
  -The smash button to make combo make some fight non equal
  -Your 
 characters hit the floor when yours start running too quick
  -the game have a end (TAN TAN TAN!!!!!)
  
  My final score will be 9/10, I think it's a good 
 mark for this very nice game.
  Buy it now if you have a Wii, It's the game that you can't miss on Wii!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljlrj
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2008 5:11 am PT
Review:  We've waited a long time for this, gamers; seven long years and sixty-seven days to be exact. Since 
 its release in December of 2001, we've all anticipated the sequel to the GameCube's best selling 
 title of all time, Super Smash Bros. Melee. From the fiery threads of suggestions, to polls, rumor, 
 speculation, and finally confirmation, we're at last upon the next generation of the beloved fighter's 
 sequel, Super Smash Bros. Brawl. 
  
  Now while I could provide you with a bits and pieces review, I prefer to flesh out a game that 
 any reader may be on the fence about (though if you're on that side of things with this title, 
 you really must be new!) . So settle down for a moment and I'll provide you with step by step coverage 
 of the multitude of features in Brawl. 
  
  What it's all about 
  
  If you're at all familiar with the Smash Bros. namesake, you know it's all about one thing: fighting. 
 What separates Smash Bros. from the typical Street Fighter and Soul Calibur genres, however, is 
 the amount of liberation and simple, but deep gameplay it provides in its controls and expansive 
 environments. While classic 2D beat-em-up games like Street Fighter inhibited free movement over 
 any considerable amount of space, and fighters such as Soul Calibur persistently make you circle 
 around and face your opponent in a true, dynamic 3D environment, Smash Bros. takes some of the 
 best elements of both types and delivers a truly unique and addictive experience. 
  
  Paradox: Elaborate simplicity 
  
  No matter how great a game's soundtrack or graphics are, 
 its success always boils down to the single most important question of any game: Is it fun to play? 
 Unlike most traditional fighters that have flourished in archaic, or "tried and true" 2D gameplay, 
 Smash Bros. returns with the franchise's same refreshingly simple control scheme. 
  
  Where, for example, in traditional 2D fighters where any newcomer can feasibly mash buttons and 
 pull off some of the most powerful attacks a game has to offer (a la Street Fighter; Guilty Gear) , 
 Smash Bros. presents straight-forward and accessible move sets for each character in its roster, 
 which means that everything you do in Smash is both easy to pull off and deliberate. Couple this 
 accessibility with over a dozen different (and *mostly* unique) attacks per character, and different 
 attributes as well, by the time you begin to master the basics you already know ahead of time what 
 attack you want to pull and you know just how to do it at any given moment; all without having 
 to memorize a dictionary of different button combinations. 
  
  Brawl delivers in every way what its predecessors did and then some in this department. The game 
 is every bit as accessible as Melee, and veteran characters control largely like they always have. 
 There are, however, some tweaks in the way players will encounter each other in their many bouts. 
 
  
  First, players familiar with the franchise will notice that they stay in the air longer than they 
 did before, making aerial combat a larger factor than in the previous two games. Characters also 
 seem to have been slowed down slightly, so that those of you accustomed to using fast characters 
 in the previous installments will notice a difference. The last great difference that appears is 
 that characters seem to last much longer than they did. You and your opponent will often find each 
 other going into the 200 percentile damage range and recovering back to the fight without too much 
 strain. So, in short, if you're one who likes their combat short and sweet, prepare to sweat a 
 little longer in your matches. 
  
  Count'em: Four Methods of Control 
  
  Perhaps you're a seasoned vet with Smash, ready to get your game on with your trusty Gamecube controller. 
 Then again, you may be a newcomer to the series ready to get in on the action with your Wii remote 
 and/or Nunchuck to account for. In truth, you can use just about any controller out there that's 
 Wii compatible to play Brawl. When playing Brawl, you're presented with the choice of fighting 
 with the Wii-mote, Wii-mote/Nunchuck combo, Classic Controller, or the Gamecube controller, all 
 of which work equally well in Brawl. 
  
  Wii-mote & Nunchuck Combo 
  
  Taking control of characters in Brawl with the Wii-remote and Nunchuck will likely feel awkward 
 for seasoned vets and newcomers alike at first. With the D-pad and A button right next to one another 
 in one hand and the B-trigger underneath, Brawl's control scheme at first feels convoluted. However, 
 the more you play Brawl with this controller combination the more and more comfortable it feels 
 until you reach a point where the controls feel natural and liberating with the Wii-mote in one 
 hand and the Nunchuck in the other. 
  
  Jumping, smashing, and maneuvering your character eventually feels as natural as it ever did, and 
 perhaps even more so for some. For those of you worried that this combination would be too awkward, 
 you can put your fears aside. In time you'll probably learn to play with this combo as if it's 
 second nature. 
  
  Standalone Wii-mote 
  
  Playing Brawl with the Wii-mote alone is as solid a control scheme as any. In a way, this controller 
 makes playing Brawl a bit reminiscent of the original NES, which should make the game less intimidating 
 to newcomers. With the D-pad on the left and the 1 and 2 buttons on the right for special, basic 
 and Smash attacks, one can effectively imagine what Brawl might have felt like on the NES. This 
 is by no means a bad thing, though. Get over the aesthetics of the horizontal Wii-mote and playing 
 Brawl with it feels natural right away. 
  
  Dodging, smashing, and jumping has a very quick learning curve compared to the Wii-mote/Nunchuck 
 combo. That said, the buttons mapped to the grab ability for characters are in the least convenient 
 of places in the center of the Wii-mote, just out of the reach of a player's thumb. However, even 
 that can be changed by customizing your controls in the game's options. There's not much negative 
 to be said about a control scheme that is pick-up and play for most gamers. This, like combo before, 
 is a control scheme that must be tried sooner or later. It doesn't disappoint. 
  
  Classic Controller 
  
  Of the four methods of playing Brawl, the Classic Controller is without 
 a doubt the closest resemblance to the Gamecube in terms of controls. In many ways it directly 
 mimics the controls of the Gamecube right from the get-go. Its jump, shield/dodge, special, and 
 basic attack button are almost all in the same general areas as they are on the Gamecube controller. 
 In fact the only real differences are the locations of the joystick and D-pad (which switch places) , 
 as well as the Z-buttons (which are between the shoulder buttons rather than parallel to the right 
 shoulder trigger) . That said, the Classic Controller only has a couple of minor differences when 
 compared to the Gamecube controller. The Z/grab buttons are located a bit out of reach of the index 
 finger between the Classic Controller's shoulder buttons. 
  
  Also, the Classic Controller feels incredibly small in average sized hands and a bit awkward in 
 the sense that it never entirely feels like one has a complete grip on the pad. Unlike the Gamecube 
 Controller, which provides solid handles for gripping the controller on each side, the Classic 
 Controller is rounded unlike any Nintendo pad before it. That's not to say that it isn't a great 
 choice given you may be a Wii owner with this controller but without a Gamecube controller. The 
 Classic Controller is a definitely a solid alternative to its Gamecube counterpart for anyone without 
 a Gamecube pad. 
  
  Gamecube Controller 
  
  Last on the list is the trusty Gamecube controller. For veterans this is likely the weapon of choice 
 from the start. Why? Well that's because absolutely nothing has changed in terms of how it controls 
 characters from Smash Bros. Melee, save for the added taunts on the D-pad (if that counts as a 
 change) . 
  
  Playing Brawl doesn't get any more familiar than with the Gamecube controller. It provides straight-forward 
 pick up and play button placement that can be deduced in a matter of minutes, a comfortable grip, 
 and a way for veterans to begin tearing through the game's content unhindered by new control schemes. 
 In fact, the Gamecube pad is even a little better than it previously was assuming that as a player 
 you customize your controls to best suit you. 
  
  If you don't already have a Gamecube controller or haven't played a Smash game before, it's in 
 your best interest to pick one up at your local electronics retailer. This is how Brawl was meant 
 to be played. 
  
  Game Modes Extravaganza 
  
  From the beginning, Brawl provides more game modes than most fighting games slapped together. From 
 the new side-scrolling story mode, classic fighting mode, multi-man brawl, cruel brawl, break the 
 targets, home-run contest, and event matches (to name some) , Brawl has nigh-unlimited hours of 
 replay ability in its modes. That is also to say a few of the game's modes are even hidden. You'll 
 likely find yourself finagling with Brawl's many modes for years to come. But how do some of them 
 add up in quality? 
  
  Subspace Emissary 
  
  For the first time, Smash Bros. has something of a story with it. In the Subspace Emissary you'll 
 duke it out with new and familiar foes out to turn you into trophies in order to absorb the world 
 into the mysterious subspace. In this mode, you'll venture through a lengthy side-scrolling adventure 
 which you can play alone or co-op with a friend. However you decide to play it, you'll quickly 
 discover the nostalgic tedium presented within, which may be a treat to seasoned gamers who miss 
 truly punishing old-school platforming. 
  
  Subspace Emissary actually plays out very similarly to old-school Kirby games, and that's not surprising 
 considering the man behind Smash was also behind Kirby. With the doors at point A that lead to 
 point B, which was the basic design between exploring past Kirby games, if you are a fan of older, 
 though more punishing, Kirby platforming then Subspace should be a treat. Its cut-scenes alone 
 are beautiful enough on their own to merit the frustration of the Subspace Emissary, not to mention 
 that the game's entire character roster can alternatively be unlocked through this mode. 
  
  In truth, the only bone to pick with Subspace Emissary is that its story seems to have been 
 pieced together by a 9-year-old gamer with spur-of-the-moment ideas for what might be cool. In 
 fact at one point, you will actually be able to watch what is happening and randomly say "And-and 
 then Sonic was there! Yeah!", and it will make perfect sense like nothing has even made sense before. 
 That's minor nit-picking for a game that would sell millions without a story-mode at all though. 
 One can even use the stickers they find throughout their adventure to augment their attributes 
 in story-mode if they so please. When it comes down to it, Subspace Emissary is a great addition 
 to an already celebrated game and is really a blast when played with a friend. 
  
  Classic Mode 
  
  Classic fighting mode plays as it always has. It begins with a random battle 
 and takes you through encounters with randomly chosen opponents (and allies in some cases) with 
 sometimes different attributes. You'll play break the targets and other familiar game modes within 
 just like in past Smash titles as well. In the end players will encounter Master Hand (and Crazy 
 Hand if you're so inclined) for the final battle. Not much as changed here, and that's a great 
 thing! Classic fighting mode is as solid as ever and was an expected return. This is great a great 
 mode for earning new trophies, stickers, and music. Some characters can be unlocked through this 
 mode as well. Fight here if you'd like to sharpen your skills. 
  
  Event Mode 
  
  Event matches are also a welcomed return to Smash. These many mini-brawls provide you with pre-set 
 conditions for winning. So, for example, you may need to defeat different colored Yoshis in a particular 
 order to win. This mode, like Subspace and Classic, also has different difficulty settings. By 
 going through the event matches you'll unlock different trophies, music, stickers, and even stages! 
 They also make for a great and entertaining romp with which any player can kill time. 
  
  Unlockables? Hundreds! 
  
  Characters and stages aren't the only things to unlock in Brawl. 
 Aside for those many extras alone, there are hundreds of trophies, stickers, and songs to unlock. 
 Not to mention a hidden game mode or two to keep you busy. There's even a menu in the game itself 
 to help you keep up with some unlockables, while providing hints on how to unlock them as well! 
 If you're the type that's a completist, one that gets a kick out of boasting about how much you've 
 unlocked, or even if you need a goal for an hour or so, Brawl will keep you occupied for months 
 or years to come. 
  
  A Feast For Your Ears 
  
  If you're a fan of quality music in your games, then Brawl is out to shock and amaze. The scores 
 and remixes of classic Nintendo themes are unprecedented for any game. For the sheer quantity of 
 the soundtracks in Brawl (which is over 300) the quality of them all is just astonishing. Brawl's 
 soundtrack could easily be marketed on its own merit and meet massive success on store shelves. 
 The game even provides you the ability to increase or decrease the likelihood of certain songs 
 to play on the game's many stages, which means you get to fight to your favorite tune for a specific 
 setting. It doesn't make fighting your buddy any more satisfying than having your song play on 
 your stage as you whoop some tail, now does it? 
  
  Visuals Don't Disappoint 
  
  The only Wii game to have come close to the graphical impressiveness of its competitors is by and 
 large Super Mario Galaxy (for the sake of an example) . For what the Wii is capable of, though, 
 Brawl provides some satisfying visuals, most of which have been noticeably updated since the last 
 game in the franchise. With component cables, the game looks even better as well. 
  
  In this department, Brawl doesn't come short, but it can never provide the "wow" in terms of visuals 
 that games like Metal Gear Solid 4, or Gears of War provide from Nintendo's competitors. That said, 
 the Wii has a single great one-up on Sony and Microsoft by providing its wide-screen feature in 
 Brawl, which is a nice addition to an already amazing game. Brawl is nevertheless still a real 
 treat to watch as you knock the sense out of your opponents. 
  
  Internet Isn't Such a Smash 
  
  Save for battles with your friends, Brawl's Wi-fi option has 
 failed to satisfy. Given that the proximity of one's close friends is more often than not hundreds 
 of miles, depending on your connection speed, or your type of connection altogether, the quality 
 of your internet experience with Brawl may not be the best. 
  
  In fact, many players joining random matches are experiencing a plethora of errors and disconnections 
 from Brawl's Wi-fi. It's a shame too, but at least we get to play with our friends online, right? 
 Hopefully Nintendo is working on improving its connectivity with Brawl's online. Friend codes and 
 lack of voice communication is the least of concerns to a quality gameplay experience in the end, 
 considering Brawl is no different than any other online-enabled Nintendo game. Until connectivity 
 is improved, though, this critic isn't overly impressed. 
  
  Closing Comments 
  
  Brawl is an amazing gameplay experience. As a balanced fighter with tons of secrets and unlockables, 
 it's unmatched in quality. Its soundtrack is superb, and is a treat to just sit down and listen 
 to at times. With a great many game modes to participate in, stage builder, and wi-fi to boot, 
 its replayability is so far through the roof that some deity above must be wondering what's poking 
 them in the butt. Brawl is one of those once-a-generation titles that can't be missed, and it's 
 been an experience seven years in the making. Was is worth the wait? Hell smashing yes. 
  
  Final Verdict=9.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RMANPOWER
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 2:59 am PT
Review:  Well, I finally rebought my Nintendo Wii mainly for this game and BOY! Was this game something 
 else or what. This game is so much fun when you have the homies over, I mean I don't know where 
 to start at.
  
  Graphics: Almost looks like the one from Gamecube, but just a tad bit sharper. It looks really 
 nice and I'm having so much fun with Link.
  
  Sounds: BEST EVER!! Sound effects along with the classic music, It can't be beat. Not to mention, 
 Sonic's song ROCKS!!
  
  Gameplay: Like I said, If you have the right people playing, then it makes this game non-stop action. 
 
  
  I must say that this game is solid hands down, I have nothing wrong with this game except one thing 
 and that is the online mode.
  
  I hope they get a patch on it because it's running really slow for me and I have good signal on 
 my internet. I play PS3 games all the time and nothing is wrong, but I tried it out a few times 
 and I thought it wasn't bad.
  
  Overall: This game rocks, I'm having a blast getting all the items. It's going to take awhile, 
 but in the end it's worth all my time.
  
  SUPER SMASH BROS BRAWL ROCKS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dentyne
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is a great addition to a very popular franchise. Its gameplay mechanics 
 has been revolutionized and the character selection has been greatly expanded
  
  The gameplay is very similar to its previous release of Melee. Everyone has all the same moves 
 and same technique as before. But each character has its own "finishing Attack" I found this addition 
 to the game to be very fun and intriguing. The controls for this game can be tough if you are using 
 the Wii remote, but in time you will get use to it the more you play. Its also great that you get 
 to choose between using the old gamecube controllers and the classic controllers, nonetheless, 
 controls in not a big problem at all
  
  The music is great. Nintendo has brought back all the old songs from all the Nintendo franchises. 
 From Ness to Link to Star Fox to Mario, the music brings back the good old days of SNES. 
  
  The Cast of the game is very impressive. They've added characters such as Pit, Diddy, Olimar... etc. 
 and who can forget the the most anticipated characters, Solid Snake and Sonic the HedgeHog. 
  
  Overall, this game is incredible. I recommend this game to all Smash Bros Fan or Nintendo fans. 
 This game will have many more versions to come in the future. BUY NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stap23
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Alright where to start, the brawl system still the same but the new items and smash ball give it 
 more spice in it. Great level section to start with. Playing melee then playing brawl, the speed 
 felt slower. Some of you pro probably notice it. Of course it will take time to adjust. So the 
 brawling system is awesome. Also it is pretty cool to set up your own special brawl, which is pretty 
 fun to play with friends of course. Now to the SSE (Subspace Emissary) , it was long but too easy 
 to unlock characters. The story line was good and how it follow up with everyone in the same world. 
 Having to go back to stages to find those hidden doors and yellow boxes was pretty smart to try 
 to get 100% (which i haven't done yet) . The trophies and stickers are really great memories of 
 all the Nintendo classic games and amazing how there is more then 500 trophies. Brilliant idea 
 in putting the masterpieces in brawl to play the demo so people can download it and actually play 
 the whole thing. Another thing, the two player modes for the SSE, Events, and Stadium events are 
 pretty helpful. Now the online gaming is alright. Playing with friends after getting their code 
 is somewhat less lag. The random battles with strangers is alright too, but there is of course 
 that bad lag, because you don't know the distance from each other. It's understandable why they 
 wouldn't accept online chat for brawl due to some really hardcore gaming and talking. Last is the 
 music to talk about. The is just incredibly amazing. So many versions of the songs to fit the environment 
 and a lot favorite songs. There is no way you can not like the music on brawl due to that there 
 is more than 100 songs. Overall this game is a must have game. Doesn't matter if you're a newcomer 
 you are still gonna have a kick ass time with game and one more thing i forgot the challenges will 
 also keep you busy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl is the third entry in the Super Smash Bros series, which has always focused 
 on sending famous Nintendo characters at each other in entertaining and frantic battles. It's been 
 a winning formula ever since the start- so how does Brawl improve upon Melee's massive success? 
 The answer- Brawl improves upon Melee's foundation in many ways- and it doesn't just add on to 
 things that were already there. All matters considered- Brawl is by far the best entry in the series 
 yet.
  
  Brawl offers basic multiplayer battles- both online and off- along with several single and co-op 
 modes. The multiplayer battles are the main focus here. The biggest change here is that you can 
 now play online- making it even easier to find three other people to duke it out with. These haven't 
 been changed much since the previous entires in the series- but thats a good thing, since this 
 wouldn't be Super Smash Bros without that winning formula.
  
  The most changes that Brawl brings to the series definitely lie with the single and co-op modes. 
 The biggest addition here is the new adventure mode called the Subspace Emissary. The Subspace 
 Emissary basically throws most of the characters on the roster into a quest to save the world from 
 the Subspace army, which is led by some of Nintendo's classic villains such as Bowser and Ganondorf. 
 
  
  Instead of just being a line-up of brawls like the Classic mode however, the Subspace Emissary 
 is much more of a platformer than a fighting game. This comes with its upsides and downsides. On 
 the plus side, the levels are all well-designed, most of them obviously taking tricks from Nintendo's 
 previous platformers. They also bring in a few unique tricks as well. Some sections are surprisingly 
 sadistic- requiring alot of precision jumping and special ability usage, but it never becomes unmanageable, 
 especially since the game's continue/checkpoint system is rather generous.
  
  It's not without a few issues however. While most of the characters handle the platforming surprisingly 
 well, there are a few characters that don't bode well with it at all. This can make a few of the 
 Subspace Emissary's levels more frusterating than they should be. There are also several boss fights, 
 but most of these tend to be a bit on the easy side (At least on the standard difficulty) .
  
  Brawl also offers the classic single player mode, which is just the same as the basic single 
 player mode in the previous two games in the series- in that you fight past a set ammount of random 
 opponents and fight Master Hand at the end. There are also a large ammount of pre-set event matches 
 and stadium modes. These single player modes are all quite fun for a while, but as has already 
 been said, the main attraction is still the multiplayer games.
  
  Brawl improves a bit on the multiplayer matches by offering more options for your games than the 
 previous games in the series offered. The main in-game addition however is each character's unique 
 final smash attack. These attacks are extremely powerful that almost always guarantee a KO or two 
 for anyone who achieves them. As powerful as they are however, they don't feel cheap or overpowered 
 since they generally aren't game deciders.
  
  The character roster is also bigger than ever, sporting 35 characters total. This makes the number 
 of match-ups potentially endless. The only disappointing thing about this new roster is that a 
 few of the characters still share movesets and final smashes and/or are essentially clones of each 
 other. 
  
  Graphically, Super Smash Bros Brawl is only a minor upgrade over Melee, so there are only a few 
 areas where Brawl shows obvious improvement. The character models are more detailed than they were 
 in Melee, and the partical effects also seem slightly sharper. The environments however, don't 
 seem to improved too much from Melee, if at all. Sound wise, Brawl has an amazing soundtrack along 
 with the standard battle sounds you'd expect.
  
  In the end, Super Smash Bros Brawl isn't without its minor disappointments. But this is still unquestionably 
 the best entry in the series yet. If you never liked the series- Brawl ain't gonna change your 
 mind- but if you own a Wii and/or loved the previous games in the series- you owe it to yourself 
 to get Super Smash Bros Brawl.
  
  Pros: Bigger character roster than ever. Online multiplayer. Subspace Emissary mode is a great 
 new single-player addition. More options for multiplayer battles. Improved AI from Melee.
  
  Cons: A few too many characters still share movesets with each other. Subspace Emissary suffers 
 from certain characters' lackluster platforming abilities. Occasionally long load times.
  
  Recommendable for: Anyone with a Wii should buy Super Smash Bros Brawl- unless you've never liked 
 the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamakarmica
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 8:16 pm PT
Review:  After months of hype, in-depth interviews and exhausting coverage from all websites and Nintendo's 
 own Smashbrosdojo, the game finally has arrived in the US. Super Smash Bros. Brawl, the 3rd entry 
 into the fan favorite series since the series was introduced nearly a decade ago on the N64, was 
 released on March 9, 2008.
  
  Since Super Smash Bros. Melee, fans of the series have tirelessly played through the Gamecube classic. 
 So much so, it kept getting strong sales not only during its release in 2001, to this day it still 
 sells copies all over the world. The unique platforming/fighting blend that a Smash Bros. game 
 brings, along with it's simplistic controls and hidden fighting game depth, kept the game inside 
 of Gamecube's until the very end of the console.
  
  That is a hard fight for the Wii version to go through, so is Brawl able to fill in the rather 
 large shoes that Melee created?
  
  There are a bunch of firsts for Brawl on the Wii. The game not only allows you to play with the 
 Wii Remote: It also allows you three different control schemes (Wii-mote/Nunchuk, Classic Controller 
 and Gamecube Controller) to choose from, so you choose which is most comfortable. There is also 
 a simple level editor that you can trade with all of your friends. Finally, there is the online 
 mode, which lets you play against friends and strangers online (no voice chat, unfortunately) .
 
  
  Brawl also introduces a good amount of newcomers, from Captain Olimar from Pikmin to Wario. There 
 are numerous stages and characters to choose from, as well as a various assortment of items to 
 use in fights and stickers and trophies to collect. On top of all of that, there are demos you 
 can play of virtual console games such as Kid Icarus and Donkey Kong.
  
  In fact, Super Smash Bros. Brawl is chock full of more stuff than any game of its kind. The mere 
 fact that you can spend hours going through a mini-game called "Coin Shooter" (which replaces "Lottery" 
 from Melee) that has you shooting coins at trophies in order to collect them. This Galaga/Bust-A-Move 
 hybrid can eat a good hour of your time after amassing tons of coins in the actual gameplay modes.
 
  
  The final new feature in this game is the brand new story mode called "The Subspace Emissary". 
 I'm not exactly sure who asked for it, but this new mode actually creates a story with all the 
 characters of the game being used to destroy a common threat. Or, I guess that's what it is, since 
 there is no semblance of dialogue or plot to really speak of (other than a bomb going off here 
 and a random appearance there) .
  
  The 8-hour story has you playing with every character in the game, going against faceless monsters 
 and random obstacles in order to defeat the main boss in this mode (which isn't Master Hand, surprisingly) .
 
  
  But let's be honest: Story isn't why you're playing this mode. One main reason to drudge (and it 
 feelsl ike a drudge at times) through this mode is because most, if not all, of the characters 
 are easily unlocked through this game mode. Otherwise, you might have to go through dozens or hundreds 
 of multiplayer matches just to unlock most of the characters. 
  
  The Subspace Emissary does two things well: It's offers an imaginative, somewhat whimsical take 
 on the series and it gives you a great training primer for playing each and every character. Originally, 
 I hated Fox McCloud in all version of Smash Bros., but I've come to love his fighting style a lot, 
 as long as I can control him. As well, I found my original favorites from Melee (which were Marth 
 and Captain Falcon) to have slight differences that altered the way I fought with them, but also 
 found new favorites along the way (King Dedede and Lucario are the best fighters in this game, 
 in my opinion) .
  
  The classic mode is back, which allows you to play like a standard single-player fighting game, 
 which is the same as it always has been. It's still fun, however. Mini-games such as Multi-Man 
 Melee, Home Run Contest, Target Smash and Smash Events all make a return as well.
  
  Back to characters, the game does a superb job of balancing not only the characters. Sure, some 
 of the characters are overpowered (FALCON... PUNCH!!!!) while others seem a bit weak (Diddy Kong, 
 ::sigh:: Marth) , but the balance is also off set by the stages. In a brilliant use of balancing 
 that few fighting games actually possess (which includes the vaunted and loved Virtua Fighter) , 
 the stages act like characters themselves at which some characters would be at an advantage, while 
 others in a disadvantage.
  
  Example: A powerful, destructive character like Dedede could absolutely tear house in a level like 
 The Battlefield or Pokemon Stadium 2. However, place him in Mushroomy Kingdom, which is a side-scrolling 
 jump-a-thon that gets faster every minute you are on the stage, and you'll find that fighter at 
 a heavy disadvantage. 
  
  Knowing the strategies of each stage as well as each character is vitally important in being successful, 
 much like a First Person Shooter like Halo 3.
  
  Speaking of multiplayer, local four player brawls are a blast, as always. Allowing differenet skill 
 sets, as well as various stages of play, gives the game a fresh, great feel every time. The non-intimidating 
 nature of Smash Bros. triumphs so well in this game for sheer multiplayer purposes.
  
  Problems? Sure, there are a couple of gripes. As much as I like Subspace Emissary, it has cut most 
 of the replay value tremendously. Part of the reason I loved Melee so much is that it rewarded 
 long-time investors (such as me and my son, Evan, who played the game ALOT) with crazy characters 
 or different levels. The fact that 80% of the good stuff is unlocked through The Subspace Emissary 
 is quite disappointing. Sure, you can collect rare trophies and stickers after the mode is over, 
 but it was highly rewarding in Melee to have Mewtwo and Mr. Game and Watch unlocked after playing 
 the game for over 20 hours.
  
  Also, online gameplay is alarmingly inconsistent. This isn't new with gamers who played Mario Strikers 
 Charged, but the fact that Brawl was hyped to be the premiere game for online play on the Wii, 
 it's disappointing that the game has so many problems getting a good frame rate.
  
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl was primarily made to be a pure multiplayer experience and as long as you 
 stay local, it's an absolute blast to play. As of right now, however, online is a complete mess 
 and the friend codes don't help either. That's why, in the end, Brawl falls slightly short of Melee's 
 greatness. 
  
  It has to be said, however, that the game gives more than enough things to do on the single player 
 that you could be playing for months on end. If you haven't already bought this game and you have 
 a Wii, you should quickly purchase this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowboarder77
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Brawl. All people that own a Wii know what that game is. It was probably the most anticipated game 
 on the any system i know of (please note that is of what i know of) . It was a game i thought would 
 never live up to how well I thought it would be. Then after delay after delay when it finally came 
 out I finally got to see if it would live up to my expectations. It did. That night I wanted to 
 stay up all night just to play it. The Sub Space Emissary (SSE) was a new twist to the Smash Bros. 
 Games I was use to. The multiplayer is way better then melee not just because of new characters 
 and items but that so much more is multiplayer like SSE, All Star, target test, and more. The online 
 mode was one of my favorite changes in the game because in melee i could only go against CPU's 
 and one friend (he is the only other person i know that played the game) so now in brawl i can see 
 how good i am compared to everyone else. This game can be fun for first time player and seasoned 
 vets because of the different difficulty levels. But even some good games have some bad stuff in 
 them. One thing that should eventually straighten out is the random online is not working that 
 well. One thing that got me mad is that some of the people in the game are clones of other people. 
 Even with these I think Brawl is worth of a 10. Even thought my time spent play is probably one 
 around 20 hours I will probably put in way more because this is a game that is hard to get bored 
 at for that long. To all people with a wii i think this is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bannamanag
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Wow super smash is probably one of the best games of all time. Get all the coolest characters of 
 nintendo in cram em into one game. 
  
  The way everything flows in this game is undescribable. I don't know how the managed to make something 
 so awesome but they did. You buy this game you will not be dissapointed. It's so cool trying to 
 master each characters abilities. Everything is perfect about this game. Especially the replay 
 value. 
  
  ..............................
  
  But the one thing that is extremely dissapointing is the online play. nintendo just couldn't get 
 it done once again. Wow nintendo if there was one game you didn't want to mess up it would be this. 
 The servers are are crappy. people are hard to find. it lags a ton. No way of chatting or know 
 who you are playing. I'm tired of this stupid crap where everything has to be nice and safe so 
 nintendo makes everything stupid and you have to have friend codes and all that stupid junk. This 
 game without a single doubt would be this best game of all time if the online would be halfway 
 decent. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coco900
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Super smash brothers brawl is the most anticipated game of 2008. Most people I know bought a Wii 
 just for this game. Super Smash Brothers Brawl has many different modes to play. The best and most 
 fun mode is the multiplayer brawl mode. Also the single player isnt that bad either. The single player 
 mode has the adventure mode also known as the Subspace Emisarry. The Subspace Emisarry is made up 
 of side-scrolling levels, amazing bosses, and incredible cutscenes. Also you can do event matches, tournament, stadium, all 
 star mode, boss battle mode, classic, and the game has 41 stages, and 35 characters to choose from. Including 
 Sonic and Solid Snake. Who are the first non Nintendo characters in the Super Smash Brothers series. In 
 my opinion Super Smash Brothers Brawl is the best game ever made. Go and get it right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yxopjatenzc
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 23, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Last Sunday I rented SSBB at my local video joint. It took me about a 1/2 in hour to realize that 
 I could use the wii nun-chuck (which makes it extremely easier.) I played a few brawles but I mainly 
 played the story mode which was very impressive. (though unfortunalely I never got to beat it) The 
 final level is  I also did the 100 man Brawl and some more stuff 
 in the colliseum. 
  
  The items that I picked up or unlocked were really stupid in my opinion and were there for the 
 sake of making the gamers spend more time playing the game. To think that Nintendo may've delayed 
 this game so they could add useless items such as the ones featured when you play the game for 
 a certain amount of time.
  
  As for just beating up people in te game is great. The fighting is a BRAWL and truly lives up to 
 that hype.
  
  Overall even though SSBB as a few holes it is still very fin and I give it a 8 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amesomeness
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2008 11:49 pm PT
Review:  The best game on the wii. It is also the one of the only major first party games that is online 
 and multiplayer. Is it revolutionary? Yeah it is but it feels like Melee but a better version of 
 it. Now it is actually great to have friends because online is better with friend codes. How is 
 it with anyone? It is okay. Most games are just like local multiplayer, but some games are down 
 right unplayable. The subspace emissary is does not meet expectations. it is short but longer than 
 i thought. Its an okay feature BUT it is just not what most people were expecting. Single Player 
 isnt as good as multiplayer. There is tons of content. Masterpieces where you try a game on the 
 virtual console. Stage Builder. There is over 250 trophies.35 characters and much, much, more. 
 As a single player game it is decent. AS a multi player game it is an amazing game. The best multi 
 player experience you will find on the wii. You will be playing this games for months or years 
 to come. Best game on the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silverninga0
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Intense. Fun. Awesome. Period. 10/10
  Music: Different awesome music for every stage and you can listen to the awesome musics in the 
 vault. 10/10
  Story: Awesome storyline that will keep you interested until the end and also takes about 6-10 
 hours depending on how you play. 10/10
  Online: Sometimes laggy but you still get to play other people that you don't even know about. 
 9.5/10
  Classic/All-Star: Depending on the level, this event is either really easy or REALLY HARD. In intense 
 mode you have to be SUPER DUPER PRO. I only beated Classic in intense up to stage 5 or 6 = [, too 
 hard BUT IT WAS FUN. 10/10
  
  
  
  This game puts you into the character shoes and your emotions flow through it. It is intense because 
 you dont know when the heck you're gonna get KOed. And you can show off if your good :] . I don't 
 really know what other words to describe this game except ITS TOTALLY WHOOP ASS KICKING. BEST GAME 
 IN THE WORLD!!!!!!!!
  
  and....
  
  ZERO SUIT SAMUS FOR THE WIN (my opinion :] )
  
  Overall I would give this a 9.999999 to the infinite (calculating) but since I can't seem to find 
 the 12346789 digits, ill round it to a 10 which most people gave SSBB :]
  
  one more thing
  
  GG. (lol)
  
  YOU CAN PLAY THIS GAME FOREVER BECAUSE ITS FOREVER INTERESTING.
 
  
  WARNING:
  IF YOU GET THIS GAME, YOU'LL BE HIGHLY ADDICTED BECAUSE THIS IS LIKE WEED. YOU WILL EXPERIENCE 
 THE TIME OF YOUR LIFE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kungphooey
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best smash bros to date, and possible the best wii game to date. The characters 
 are much more even this time around, and varied characters like snake and ike stir things up a 
 bit.
  
  THings like the dragoon and the final smash make the game even more random, but it still burns 
 when a compuiter gets the smash ball just because they have a faster character, that gets annoying 
 when it happens.
  
  Subspace is a nice break from brawling, some simple platforming and easy enemies make it a gentle 
 ride through the nentendo world, with some amazing looking cutscenes. Reccomend this game to all, 
 it's perfect for newcomes and vetrens. 
  
  SOme of the things that may bug you, are things like the clone characters, that the third partys 
 dont fit quite right, and the formula has not been tweaked at all, but these are small in comparason 
 to everything the game does right,. 
  
  Solid gold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  This game it absolutly fantastic, but they had about 6 years to make it and it seems like they 
 could have aquired more off charecters, like snake and sonic. (those are the only non-nintendo) 
 charecters to be found.
  
  good: massive roster of charecters.
  wealth of modes.
  Online (with friends) is great.
  Extremely well fine tuned.
  spectating is neat.
  
  bad: not 
 enough third party charecters.
  subspace isn't all it's cracked up to be.
  online with random people is broken.
  you can't do a random 1vs1, it automaticly adds 2 CPU's.
 
  no voice chat? even with friends?!?!
  no special brawls (even with friends) .
  
  It's good outragiously out-weighs it's bad, and it's bads are easily forgotten when your slaughtering 
 a friend online miles away. Although 90% of it's modes you can be beaten in a matter of minutes, but 
 given the ability to play them on 5 dificulties and with each of the charecters seperatly. It realy 
 has tons and tons of longevity. But if you don't have online or any friends then you can beat the 
 game COMPLETELY (except trophys and stickers) in about 40 or 50 hours, but if you have online or 
 friends (as 99% of us do) you will be playing this game for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: horrorboy
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2009 1:35 pm PT
Review:  I bought Brawl on the day it came out for 50 bucks at a GameStop. I came home and played it for 
 a while and noticed how well it was put together. Earlier that day i bought an extra nunchuk and 
 remote. Me and my brother played it and had fun with it. 
  
  The next day I tried out the Subspace Emissary, and oh the fun I had. I may sound like a Brawl 
 Noob here, but the Emissary is quite frustrating, 1. they never tell you were to go. 2. Some of 
 the combat in the S. E. is really difficult even on the easy level. Quite a disappointment. 
  
  I got to the last level of the S. E. named The Great Maze, and what a maze it was. It took me 
 4 hours just trying to find out where to go and another 5 hours replaying ALL of the levels over 
 which was extremely repetitive and really really frustrating.
  
  While I was playing the S. E. I actually cussed at the screen a few times from frustration, *note* 
 that rarely happens. I have not tried out Online but I have heard that it is constantly lagging 
 and I've heard that it never lags. 
  
  The events in the game are ok, sort of fun but are also pretty frustrating if you do not know what 
 to do. There are both good things and flaws about this game and here they are.
  
  Good:
  1. Lots of characters to choose from including some new unlockable ones not seen in the 2 other 
 games.
  2. 2-4 Player is extremely fun.
  3. Interesting how you can use 4 different controllers to use.
  4. TONS and TONS of unlockable 
 stickers, trophies, and good a plently.
  5. Customizable levels and customizable brawl matches are always fun to do.
  
  Flaws:
  1. 
 Sometimes they never tell you where to go.
  2. Combat in S. S. E. is really difficult and the opponents cheat and Brawl matches can be frustrating.
 
  3. Some of the characters from the other 2 games don't show up here.
  3. Later levels of S. S. E. can become repetitive.
  4. Lots of backtracking
  5. Events can be 
 frustrating
  6. Not worth $50
  
  I will give this game a 9.0 because of the pretty fun Good things about it and some of the pretty 
 bad flaws which keep me from giving it a perfect 10 out of 10 but otherwise a 9 out of 10. 
  
  Even though this game is family friendly, it may just get you to throw your remote at the screen 
 or your Wii. Not worth $50, maybe $30 or $40. A great game but the flaws keep it from a 10. A 9.0 
 out of 10.
  -horrorboy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ptflecha
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I know YOU know that I know that EVERYBODY loves brawl. I have a feeling, that this game was 
 already being waited for years before. I'm not talking about the continuation of Melee, but the 
 actual wait inside me.
  
  One thing is, I am dumbstruck with the class of the game. Visually, in overall gameplay and in 
 the feeling of controlling a character with so many moves, specified to the smallest detail. I 
 would never imagine that it would be so good.
  
  There are so many special moves, attacks, and possibilities you have when playing Brawl. When it's 
 time for the match, you get all your focused attention to the screen and can't wait to see the 
 time for your enemies' percent to go up. And, not forgetting to keep your eyes on the prize, you're 
 looking out for the Final Smash Ball, so the Final Smash can be performed.
  
  The new Smash Bros. has millions of new items, in which, one of them is the Smash Ball. If you 
 beat up the Smash Ball enough, you'll be able to get the power of the Final Smash. Like I said, 
 each character has a distinguished Final Smash, and the it can be performed as many times as the 
 Smash Ball appears in the match. And, don't forget about that there are items from Melee like that 
 Pokmon Ball that we could get and use during action, and billions of other ones we can recognize 
 from our old Melee.
  
  Even though Final Smashes are called "Final" that doesn't mean anything. There are infinite possibilities 
 of the way you use it, and it also depends in the way your character's final smash is. There are 
 many types of Final Smashes. There are the ones that help you, and there are others that do damage 
 to your opponents, and other types of ones. There are even some that can be harmful to everyone 
 who is close, so be careful!
  
  About the character controlling, I think it's distributed very well. Your fingers kind of go to 
 that place you would imagine the attack, defense or move would actually be. That is, without counting 
 the four ways of playing Brawl. Wii and Nunchuck together, the Classic Controller, that looks like 
 a Playstation 1 control, the GameCube classic one that you can use, and the Wii Remote that you 
 can use sideways, all alone.
  
  Now, you cannot forget that brawl has about 20 new characters! Some are hidden and some just are 
 there. Imagine! Almost 35 characters, more than 10 in online play, up to four players at home, 
 four different ways of playing with the remotes, and what more do you want? But, what did you expect? 
 It's Nintendo!
  
  Fun challenges are also found in Super Smash Bros. Brawl. There's the 100 Man Brawl, that is when 
 you see in how much time you kill 100 computer enemies, the Infinite Man Brawl, that is, you have 
 a certain amount of time to see how many enemies you can kill, and in between zillions of others 
 mini-challenges.
  
  In Brawl, there are some classic stages they could not leave out of the game. I'm talking about 
 Melee stages and I'm also talking about the classic DK games, or the Mario Bros., and even old 
 Kirby 64. Songs and stages from these games can also be found if you search carefully. Don't forget 
 that there are also characters that were in these old games we played that are in full color and 
 in 3 dimensions, at full command for battle.
  
  And the cool thing is, the game never ends. This is something you can come back again forever and 
 ever and never get tired of it. What I mean is, there are infinite possibilities of what you can 
 do. Story mode is one of them. Classic mode, Online, and much more you can't actually picture in 
 your mind.
  
  But as interesting as it can be, that when I stop playing, I WANT to play more. I just keep imagining 
 what will I do when I come back. Will I play more Brawls? Will I play the SSE? Well, that just 
 is something I wanted to comment and point out.
  
  Now concluding my overall examination of the epic Super Smash Bros. Brawl, I can really say: I 
 have been in the edge of madness for almost 7 months knowing that the arrival was coming. Now that 
 time has come. I say, IT WAS WORTH THE WAIT. But think, one day, someone had the brilliant idea 
 of doing this revolutionary masterpiece. I would like to thank all these brilliant people who had 
 all their time working in this game, and all those who put all their effort in making this the 
 perfect experience. But I learned a lesson with this game. That anything is possible, and that 
 imagination has no limitation. "The important thing is to never stop imagining.", said our old 
 genius, Albert Einstein. I would have said it would be impossible to do a game like this, but here 
 it is. Ending here, I shall say no more.
  
  Thank You,
  
  Paulo Lima Neto 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SLYMAGIC123123
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  This is gotta be the best game ive played in awhile or even ever. Best game of 08 no doubt. All 
 around great game. I have never seen a game this fun. all the new updates are awesome like the 
 new stages and characters and the stage builder. The best update though is the wi-fi its great. 
 A must have for nintendo wii owners. This will be the game of the year. Not alot of games in 08 
 will come close except Infamous and Mario Kart Wii. Best game for the wii so far is this game right 
 here. Any1 who dosent have it go buy it! Get it!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: link779
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  This game is a kid-friendly game and adults love it too!
  There is 35 characters in this game: Mario to Link to Sonic to Solid Snake! There are 14 hidden 
 characters like: Wolf, Toon Link, Marth, Luigi, and Ness (and more hidden characters!) Graphics 
 in this game are Awesome!
  Sound is incredible! Over 50 songs to choose from!
  There are some clones: Toon Link, Wolf, Ganondorf (sorta) an ya wish there was more characters 
 and less were clones!
  Cutted Characters:
  Mewtwo, Dr. Mario, Young Link (replaced by Toon Link) , Roy (replaced by Ike) , Pichu, and a few 
 others you won't see in these game! : (
  New stuff:
  The new stuff is stuff like Subspace Emisarry which is like a choose your own adventure and save 
 the world from Bowser and Ganondorf!
  Sounds fun right!?!?!?!?
  To end it:
  This is a great game your going to play it for years to come! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXxNintendoxXx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  I can't believe it's been seven years since Super Smash Bros. Melee came out for the GameCube. 
 Back then I thought "How could this be any better?" Well, I got my answer. Once I popped Brawl 
 into my Wii, I knew I was in for one of the best gaming experiences of my life. Listening to the 
 beautiful piece of music along with the intro movie really got me into the brawling spirit. After 
 playing a couple of battles, I immediately noticed the change of pace from Melee to now. Hopping 
 around stages, whacking a Pikachu here, a Mario there, although essentially the same as the last 
 two games, somehow feels new and provides a fresh experience. The controls are great, and in my 
 opinion is, if you played Melee, then your choice should most likely be the 'Cube controller. Another 
 thing is that no matter what method you pick, you'll be playing this game for a long time. With 
 objectives ranging from collecting stickers and trophies, to brawling through a long Solo (or co-op) 
 adventure, everything you do feels rewarding. One thing that I found the most rewarding aside from 
 the fighting frenzies and huge challenges is simply the music. Any Nintendo fan, or other gamer 
 at that, should joyfully hum along their favorite tunes, whether it be the Underworld theme from 
 Kid Icarus, or a hardcore metal remix of Kirby. Simply put, if you are deciding to get a Wii, this 
 game should be your first choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svenuce
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 1:04 am PT
Review:  As my first Smash Brother's experience, II was eager to find out what all of the fuss was about. 
 Unfortunately, I came away somewhat disappointed.
  
  It's hard to argue with the kitchen sink feature set of the game, but the very foundation of the 
 game seems built off of very arbitrary conflict resolutions that randomly determines if you "die" 
 or "live".
  
  Also, the online code seems fairly latency intolerant. Slowdowns and disconnects are fairly common, 
 especially in four player games. And don't get me started on "friend codes" versus a real friend's 
 system like PS3 or 360. That system needs to die ASAP.
  
  Obviously, I love all of the characters and the amazing Nintendo references that run through the 
 game but for me, it doesn't overcome the basic flaws in combat mechanics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaelonbass
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2008 11:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is easily the best game yet to enter on the Wii since its release. The game play is the 
 same, so if this style of fighter didn't interest you before there's nothing to change your mind 
 this time around. Brawl is an amazing character with amazing stages and more characters. Seriously, 
 you can just put it on random all day and you'll end up with a great fighter. And everyone is well 
 balanced too. Buy it because theres hours of play time packed in this thing. Also the level design 
 is even better and totally innovative. For instance, the Warioware stage will have you playing 
 microgames while in the middle of the brawl, and if you win you'll be rewarded. Probably the biggest 
 addition is the smash bawl and final smash. This finishing move is unique to each character and 
 is pretty massive. To some people, it might be a little too powerful. So if you feel that they 
 sway the match too greatly; just turn the item off and problem solved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgolden85
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl is the third game in the Super Smash Bros series. Most of my past experience 
 is with Melee, so while I did spend some time with the original years ago, Melee is the game I 
 will compare Brawl to the most. Overall, SSBB is an excellent game. Here is a list of some of the 
 details which I believe are pros and cons. Clearly many people may disagree, but these are things 
 I personally do and do not like about Brawl.
  
  Pros:
  
  - Tons of characters
  - Sub Space Emissary is much longer and more interesting then Adventure mode from Melee
  - Level 
 editor
  - Online play (I haven't played online yet but it's a great option)
  - Great graphics
  - Amazing soundtrack
  - More goodies and collectables than any game I can 
 think of
  
  
  Cons:
  
  - Final Smash
  - Load times
  - Some levels are too interactive
  - Ability to hold down the attack button for ridiculously 
 fast attacks with certain characters
  - Pacing of VS mode has slowed considerably
  - Still no way to save settings (why can't the game default to displaying score so we don't have 
 to manually set it every time we play a versus match???)
  
  
  Let me start by saying the good far outweighs the bad, IMO. Most of the cons listed are things 
 that are nagging issues to me, but they aren't in any way a deal breaker. After all, I am giving 
 the game an 8.5. While I will be focusing more on the bad, I think the game is excellent overall.
 
  
  Super Smash Bros Brawl is massive, and has far more fan service than the (relatively) casual Nintendo 
 fan like myself can appreciate. Characters are generally balanced pretty well, though like Melee, 
 certain characters are significantly better than others. Brawl has a much more complete single 
 player aspect than did Melee. Its graphics, while not easily confused with Crysis, are engaging 
 and colorful in true Nintendo fashion. The soundtrack is incredible, with many unlockable tracks. 
 Most everything about the game is superb. However, there are several things I do not care for in 
 comparison to Melee.
  
  First, am I the only person that doesn't like Final Smash moves? Some characters have extremely 
 powerful final smashes (Bowser) , while others are virtually useless (Ness, anyone?) . I realize 
 Smash Balls can be disabled, and I'll even admit that they can be fun at times, but overall I dont 
 really like them. If you play with computer players, it's extremely frustrating as they seem to 
 get them quite often after you've hit the ball several times. It's also annoying that when they 
 have the ball, you need to hit them many times for them to drop it, but when you have the ball, 
 they hit you once or twice and you lose it. Anyway, just not a great addition IMO.
  
  Second, load times are longer than ideal. They aren't a deal breaker, but they're a far cry from 
 Melee's virtually non existent load times.
  
  Third, many of the levels are far too hazardous. This isn't me being a n00b. This is a complaint 
 against levels randomly inflicting damage on your character. Moving levels can be fun from time 
 to time, but far too many of them prove to be more a struggle with the environment than with your 
 competitors.
  
  Fourth is the ability to hold down A to attack rapidly and cheaply with certain characters (Fox, 
 Captain Falcon, and others) . Not a huge deal, but it seems lame to me.
  
  Fifth is pacing. Melee was a bit faster paced and I found it to be a bit more fun and frantic, 
 without as many random obstacles such as the levels coming into play as much. Brawl is slower and 
 more deliberate - not necessarily a "bad" thing, but a change I don't enjoy as much personally.
 
  
  Sixth is not being able to save settings. This isn't a huge deal, but it's a minor nuisance. For 
 example, I like to play while showing individual score at the bottom. Unfortunately, this setting 
 defaults to "off", and it cannot be changed and saved. This means that every time I play VS, I 
 need to go and change that setting to "on". Admittedly, this isn't the end of the world, but I 
 don't know why Brawl doesn't allow people to save this the way they want.
  
  
  Overall, SSBB is a quality, fun game to play with friends. Though I stressed the negatives, this 
 doesn't mean I dislike the game. There's so much this game does well, I decided to point out the 
 few things I didn't like instead (much faster for me to do :) ) . I personally prefer Melee over 
 Brawl, but SSBB is still a great game that is a worthwhile purchase for every Wii owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amplifystryder
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  This is a magnificent game, with many improvements from the previous installment (which is still 
 one of the best games of all time) , Too many positives about this game
  1. Longer story (Finally)
  2. Vast amount of characters 3. Great online and multiplayer
  4. Provides 
 a challenge
  5. Great for parties, a few people, or by yourself
  6. Creativity
  7. Keeps nintendo alive, brings back memories of the good ol days
  negatives
  1. Why the crap 
 is Olimar in this game? I always hated pikmin, now I hate it even more. Who the crap is R. O. B.? 
 (Reminds me of Wall-E)
  2. Easy to find noobs that use same attacks over and over, imbeciles.
  3. Snake is an entirely 
 noob-ish char.
  
  Thats pretty much it. Rather an amazing game if u ask me. P. S. ignore my Time spent playing to 
 date thing, its incorrect. This is flat-out one of the most magnificent games to ever grace mankind, 
 and probably one of the only things that the Wii has going for it. Except for very few others. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkspineslayer
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Could this be real?!, it can't be, yet it is. Super smash bros brawl is finaly here, and it came 
 out swinging with a vengance. if the legions of diehard fans that were playing the last installment 
 on the gamecube is any clue to you, than you should know that this is a game that is going to keep 
 people busy for literaly years to come. and heres why.
  
  Gameplay:10
  
  the gameplay is exactly what its been since the begining of the seris. 
  the fighing is limited 
 to 2 (count em) two buttons. one for standard attacks that all charecters can preform to some extent, 
 and one for special moves.
  the stages (41 if you were curious) are all unique in there own way. the new stages offer more 
 straight up fighting, throwing melees more gimicky stages out the window for the most part, but 
 also brings back 10 of those stages for good mesure.
  
  
  the melee stages however, after 7 years of play feel slightly old and stale, but throw in the new 
 charecters and items, and they feel fresh enough to offer new match ups in fresh ways. the stage 
 builder offers user created custom stages. these stages, abit a little basic, make sure that you 
 will have a new battleground daily should you have nintendo wifi connection.
  
  charecters:10
  
  ever found yourself argueing with a friend wether fox could take down pikachu, 
 or if samus had the better arsenal over link, than this is the game for you, if only for the satisfaction 
 of beating the crap out of mario as princess peach. with 40 playable charecters in total *counting 
 transformations and such* the matchups are virtualy limitless.
  
  finaly we can prove wether or not mario is better than sonic too.
  
  shattering previous seris 
 rule of "nintendo brawlers only" solid snake of metal gear fame comes into the brawl packing as 
 much heat as ever. and sonic the hedgehog makes his welcome debut into smash teritory at super 
 sonic speed.
  
  Music: 10
  
  with just over 300 songs avalible, makes you wonder just how the hell sakuri could put this all 
 on a single disk. with remixes of classics like the super mario bros ground theme and the legend 
 of zelda theme, each and every song is as memorable and great as the last. just throwing something 
 out here randomly. but gourmet race from the kirby seris was a pure stroke of genius.
  
  grafics: 10
  
  this parts short, promise...
  
  quite simply the greatest on the wii. some 
 may argue that they compeate with the 360s early titles. the only wii game that comes close is 
 galaxy.
  
  controls: 10
  
  another short part...
  
  4 diffrent controlers to use and almost fully customisable controls. for me, customisable is an 
 automatic 10.
  
  i'll put this end part short to. this is simply the greatest game in recent memory. it truely deserves 
 all the AAAA and AAA reviews it's gotten. a must buy if you call yourself a gamer or a wii owner.
 
  
  Peace out gamespot, goodnight!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Last_Saiyan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Brothers Brawl has been super hyped for a long time now, but once it finally came out, 
 I was ultimately disappointed. I suppose that's partly my fault as well.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  This game is gorgeous. For a Wii title, it definitely looks great, all the characters 
 animate nice a smooth, the environments are beautifully detailed and faithfully restore the respectful 
 series artistic feel and direction. the big items and moves like the final smashes also tend to 
 look great.
  
  Audio: 9/10
  The audio is perfect for what this game is, all the moves and explosions sound heavy and powerful, 
 the announcer is great as usual, and the library of music is vast. Staggeringly so. some characters 
 incessantly repeat the names of their moves and that tends to get annoying. That's the only real 
 drawback.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  The game is a little bit slower than Melee, but that is good for me, I like that better. It helps 
 the pacing. This game is chock full of fun stuff to do, from Adventure Mode: The Subspace Emissary, 
 to the tons of collectibles, to the stage builder, the 41 stages and 35 characters, and all the 
 Co-op opportunities in event and many other things, this game will keep you occupied for a long 
 time. the Online mode is as good as it can be considering Nintendo's poor setup. Still, I'd prefer 
 if you had more control over the options there in. Also, with no real voice support, it can often 
 feel like your playing against the AI when playing quick-matches.
  
  Overall: 8/10
  this game is super fun, but the disappointments that lie in Nintendo's choice of characters was 
 pretty big. I could do without Jiggly puff. I'd like, Viewtiful Joe, Knuckles to counter Sonic, 
 Grey fox as a Playable character rather than an assist trophie, Megaman and Zero, Geno, amongst 
 others. Instead, we get R. O. B. and a crappier version of Gannondorf. In the end, the game plays 
 great and is a must have for Wii owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsplayer1010
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Here it is... The most anticipated Wii game has arrived! Does it deliver? Of course! Super Smash 
 Bros. Brawl has it all. Great characters, great levels, great fighting, great fan service and more. 
 Is it perfect? No, but its close. The game trying to do too much that keeps it from perfection.
 
  
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is mainly a fighting game. It is not like other fighting games though. 
 Instead of having a health bar, each character has a percent meter that goes up as you take damage. 
 The higher it gets, the more likely you are to get launched off screen to your death. There is 
 also a very wide of items that you can use. Some include Pokeballs from Pokemon, the Fire Flower 
 from Super Mario Bros, laser guns, the Warp Star from Kirby, and more. There are many different 
 fighting modes. There is cl@$$ic, all-star, training, and more.
  
  Its the game's amazing multi-player that really shines though. The game can be played up to four 
 players split-screen. The rules of these matches can be customized a lot. Like the amount of damage 
 you start with, making everybody giant sized, etc. Brawl can also be played online. And while this 
 had some problems at first, this all seems to have been fixed and works well. Also, online you 
 can watch and bet on matches to win coins.
  
  There is also an adventure mode called the Subspace Emissary. Unfortunately, this is part of the 
 of why I'm giving Brawl an in Game play, (The other part being the awful Wiimote and Wiimote +Nunchuck 
 controls. I recomend using a Gamecube or Cl@$$ic Controller.) In the Subspace Emissary, you play 
 as a large number of Nintendo characters and go through levels, based mostly off Nintendo games. 
 The reason Brawl suffers from this is that it is too repetitive and not nearly as fun as the main 
 fighting mode.
  
  The Subspce Emissary, does however, show off some great CG cut-scenes. These however, are always 
 followed by long load times. The rest of the game also has some great graphics. Even better than 
 the graphics, though, is the sound. Brawl has a an incredible original score composed by many famous 
 game composers. The game also has good sound effects. 
  
  Brawl has 35 characters. For the most part they are different from each other. The exceptions being 
 Fox, Falco, and Wolf, and to a lesser extent, Toon Link and Link, and Mario and Luigi. There is 
 wide variety for the rest. Some of the characters are Kirby from Kirby, Ike from Fire Emblem, King 
 Dedede from Kirby, Ganondorf from The Legend of Zelda, Sonic from Sonic The Hedgehog, Solid Snake 
 from Metal Gear, and Pikachu from Pokemon. While most of these characters are great and fun to 
 use, there are some that aren't. Olimar attacks by using different colored Pikmin that do different 
 things depending on the color. Brawl's game play is too fast paced to cycle through until you get 
 to the one that you want to use. The other being Mr. Game and Watch. He is a little too hard to 
 use for me. But that may just be me. I've seen a few people online who can use him well. The game 
 also has many different stages. Based on games like Sonic the Hedgehog, Donkey Kong, Super Mario 
 Bros, Pokemon, Star Fox, The Legend of Zelda, and more. There are also some returning stages from 
 Super Smash Bros. Melee. You can also create your own stages.
  
  There are tons of unlockables in brawl. There are hidden characters, stages, music, trophies, and 
 stickers. All this combined with the fighting modes, The Subspace Emissary, and the stage creator, 
 you will be coming back to this game for a very long time.
  
  In conclusion, Super Smash Bros. Brawl is an amazing game. It is a must have Wii game
  
  Gameplay: 
 8
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 10
  Value: 10
  Tilt: 9
  
  True Score: 8.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ephidel134
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Very good. The gameplay in itself, the whole Super Smash Bros series is very good. The 
 old SSB64 one I spend hours on when I got an N64. Melee I spend countless hours getting real good 
 at the game. Brawl so far I have spent quite a good amount of time on and I will continue to do 
 so. One thing about battling I DON'T like is that they didn't add any new attacks (although they 
 added more taunts) . In Melee they added two more B moves and charge up moves. Another thing is 
 that you can hop on heads and TRIP! The hop on heads thing is not that annoying but when you trip?! 
 Although it is funny when people trip, it COMPLETELY throws off your attack and takes some skill 
 out of Brawl. Also intercepting is very scarce : (. Despite these errors, Brawl has a very good 
 gameplay concept expecially with the online play.
  
  Camera: poor. In Melee everything was close up and nice. Very easy to see what you were doing. 
 In Brawl its farther back. With the angle of the farback shot, Brawl is not as fast pace as Melee 
 was.
  
  Characters: Awesome but poor. Adding Ike and Sonic were amazing ideas. Snake, Meta Knight, Pit, 
 all of them are good additions with the exception of them taking out some characters. Roy , Pichu, 
 Young Link (although replaced by Toon Link) , Mewtwo (**** Lucario Mewtwo is a legend) , and Dr. 
 Mario.
  
  
  Story: Decent. SSE, the story mode contains no talking but cool scenes. Although the scenes are 
 pretty cool I would have prefered talking from the majority of the chars.
  
  
  Voices: Decent. Yeah... Griffith is Sonic, not Ryan. But Meta Knight's voice is awesome!!!!! Link 
 has his Twilight Princess grunts so hes good. Pit... sounds and looks like a shemale. When he says 
 "The fight is on!" You would swear hes a girl. Ike has his Path of Radiance voice so thats awesome.
 
  
  
  Music: Very good. Very good tracks like Mute City, all the Sonic themes, all the Fire emblem themes, 
 etc.
  
  
  Overall: 9.1/10. The game is very good but im sorry, it doesn't live up to Melee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nobarai
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  What's to say? This game is is ALMOST flawless (it'll be flawess when one thing is fixed with a 
 patch, which I will mention later) .
  
  The lowdown: Brawl is the 3rd game in the herioc Super Smash Bros. series. It improves on almost 
 everything. you've got 30+ characters, the subspace emissary, online, demos of classic games, and 
 much more.
  
  The meat of this game is the classic brawl mode. You can grab four friends, or play against 3 CPU 
 opponents, and duke it out to tens of settings, from coin battles, to mega curry SLOW Brawls. It's 
 perfect, and rotation and tournaments make for huge battles when you have more than 4 friends over.
 
  
  Solo modes consist of the new Subspace Emissary mode (a platforming story game with plenty of twists 
 and turns) , classic mode is a "complete all the missions without getting killed" mode which you've 
 already played hundreds of times if you own Melee and the classic SSB game. Plus mission modes, 
 home-run, multi-man brawl and target smash makes solo just as good as VS mode.
  
  Vault allows you to check on collectible trophies (over 500, plenty to collect!) , each with a detailed 
 descriptions, stickers, which gives you powers in the Subspace Emissary game, the track creator, 
 a list of some of the games for all the systems, Masterpieces, and a coin launcher game to ceollect 
 more trophies and coins.
  
  Online mode, the cherry on top allows you to play against opponents around the world, or against 
 friends (damn friend codes!) . You can spectate a pre-recorded match, and bet on a winner, or you 
 can subscribe to messages, getting free created stages, replays and other goodies.
  
  Now that I've given you a rundown, I'll give you a list of minor gripes.
  
  Track editor is 
 fun, but most of the cool parts need to be unlocked, and unlocking them is a good challenge. And 
 after you get all the parts, you'll notice there aren't a whole bunch of them, making you stages 
 that feel unispired compared to the regular stages.
  
  The subspace emissary feels short, with some stages looking like that they're running on a GC. 
 And some of the stages are just killer, with enemies that seem to cheat, and 5-17 enemies rush 
 torward you at the same time! And what's with the Mites?! (the little jerks) .
  
  Trophies are hard to collect. there are over 500 trophies, but I'm struggling at 230! And stickers 
 feel like they are a last minute thought. They're too small at times, have no description, you 
 can't zoom in on them, and the powers can only be used in Subspace Emissary mode (I know, it would 
 probably unbalance Vs. mode anyway) .
  
  Sending things is a real biotch. You can only send replays, snapshots and stages if you have your 
 friend's friend codes AND Brawl codes. Damned codes... AND you can't import Snapshots to your photo 
 album, which is just plain idoitic. I would've loved to see R. O. B beating the S*#! out of Luigi 
 on my Wii home.
  
  Masterpieces are just too short. I know they are demos, but that's rediculous. 30 seconds for F-Zero? 
 I can't do 2 laps around Mute city on 30 seconds! They should've made like a limit on how many 
 stages or races you do before it sends you back to Brawl, which reminds me of another thing
  
  The load times are too damn long! You get back from the demo, and you try to go back to the 
 vault home page, and it takes 30 seconds to load!!! If it weren't for the spining SSB logo, and 
 the blinking periods, I would've thought the game's frozen! Load times to play Vs. stages aren't 
 too bad, but the Subspace Emissary is a victim of load times, and and it can often take 10-20 seconds 
 just to load the 20 Custom stages you have on your SD card. I know the game is Dual-Layer, but 
 it's pretty pathetic.
  
  Online mode is, simply, BROKEN! Often you lose connection while waiting for random players, and 
 when you don't lost connection, everyone else has lost connection, and no ones on, leaving you 
 to beat the living crap on that punching bag for over 10 minutes before you yell "I GIVE UP!!". 
 Fortunately, Friend brawls work, but there's no lobby or chatting Nintendo, and the friend codes 
 return! (God Damn those friend codes! this game is rated T, most teens who play this are smart 
 enough not to give away their address, it's just rediculous) , and spectator modes works too, allowing 
 to get plenty of coins, but that sends me to another gripe
  
  Coin launcher just sucks. It works well, but it gets real boring real quick. and when you have 
 2000+ coins piled up, you'll being playing for a good 20 agonizing minutes! Why could'nt we just 
 have the capsule machine thing in melee?
  
  Now you're probably thinking, why Nobarai, if you have that many complaints, then this game must 
 suck", it doesn't at all. all those gripes, except for coin launcher, loading times and friend 
 codes, and highly insignificant. No game is prefect, but Brawl is pretty close. You can't fix loading 
 times, as this Dual-layer game is filled to the brim with content, online is probably going to 
 be fixed with a patch that can be sent over the mailing system (Woo mailing system! XD) , being 
 able to send things to friends is completely awesome!
  
  Core components:
  
  Graphics: Rough spots with graphics somewhat better than Melee, but graphics are still real cool
 
  
  Sound: Fantastic! Plenty of songs from every game imaginable. Even the Wii Shop channel music is 
 in here!
  
  Controls: Solid, tight, and fully customizable with planty of control styles to chose from. Sweeeet!
 
  
  Presentation: everything is well put together, with everything working as it should except for 
 online, which is being fixed.
  
  Value: you'll be playing this gem well after the Wii hits the chopping block for the next N system.
 
  
  
  In conclusion, this is the penultimate SSB, the best Fighting, the best Wii game, the soon to be 
 best Wii online game, the best party game, the most fun track editor, and a huge selection of characters.
 
  You NEED to buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firefox234
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  It doesn't happen very often that a game comes out and manages to take every type of gamer out 
 there and satisfy all their needs in place. In a very absurd and absurdly fun manner, Brawl manages 
 to do just that. The general ease of this game allows both casual and hardcore gamer alike to pick 
 up a controller and join in on the fray with a multitude of new controller options, characters, 
 maps, story, online mode and a host of other things to back it up. 
  
  The controls remain as flexible as its N64 and Game Cube prequels while at the same time tossing 
 it up a bit by allowing you to choose between any controller type available to the Wii. As before 
 you have you have your regular attacks, smashes and specials that emphasizes on the character that 
 the player uses, all of which are easy to perform and hard to master. While most controller options 
 are easy to pick up on, the only controller type that had a bit of a learning curve was the stand-alone 
 Wii-mote in which you are restricted to fewer buttons than other controller types.
  
  The game is well balanced for having a 35 character roster. A return of old classics as well as 
 some fresh faces keep the game interesting to its fullest extent. It's always pleasing to see characters 
 from separate universes duking it out in one game, Especially when you get to see Solid Snake and 
 Sonic the Hedgehog fight in the land of Hyrule. While the games balance is relevant there are a 
 few exceptions where one person may sit there doing continuous smashes on a horrendously overpowered 
 character, but it doesn't do much to ruin the experience for anyone else and keeps the game relatively 
 balanced for most skill levels. Brawl maintains more balance than most available fighters and stays 
 away from the dreaded "Dial-a-combo" that plagues most. 
  
  Many familiar arenas have been tossed into the game. Plenty have returned from Melee as well as 
 some newer areas IE Green Hill Zone from Sonic the Hedgehog or Shadow Moses Island from Metal Gear 
 Solid. Even with all of the new and very interesting arenas added players are welcome to create 
 their own battlefield and share it with friends, but I don't use it as much. While you aren't able 
 to take these maps online, there are some certain websites out there that allow you to post you 
 creation in all of its glory and share it to the world.
  
  The one things that Super Smash Bros. games had lacked in the past was a truly solid story. While 
 the Classic Mode (11 match, beat'em up) remains a new mode called "The Sub-Space Emissary" comes 
 in to tell you as to how all these characters have come together to fight it out on one platform. 
 Sub-Space Emissary has many hidden secrets that allow you to come back even after you have run 
 through it once or twice. Whether it be to unlock characters you may have missed or even minor 
 trophies or stickers that help enhance the game play further.
  
  The newest and perhaps the most welcome addition to brawl is the inclusion of an online mode. While 
 there have been some issues with connecting to a fight, this doesn't stop the fact that when you 
 are in a fight the game remains relatively lag free and the anonymity allows for less worry about 
 scoreboards or the usual online hot-head. Brawl creates an online environment where all will feel 
 welcome.
  
  If all these features, especially the inclusion of online play didn't catch your interest then 
 stop what you are doing.
  Pick up a controller.
  And hit yourself with it.
  
  So to wrap it all up, Brawl is one of the best fighting games out there, it carries on that certain 
 Nintendo charm and makes sure you get the absolute best of it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Curtis_Bundy
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  I will like to start with the characters. HUGE roster for the Smash Bros series and the best to 
 date. This game has Mario, Link, Donkey Kong, Pikachu, Wario (New) , Toon Link (New) , Meta Knight 
 (New) , King Dedede (New) , Kirby, Zelda/Sheik, Bowser, Peach, Luigi, Snake (New) , Sonic (New) , Lucario 
 (New) , Samus/Zero Suit Samus (Zero Suit Samus is New) , Fox, Falco, Ness, Olimar (New) , Lucas (New) , 
 Ike (New) , Mr. Game and Watch, Wolf (New) , Ganondorf, Diddy Kong (New) , Pit (New) , Yoshi, Marth, 
 Pokemon  (All New) , Ice Climbers, Captain Falcon, R. O. B. (New) , 
 and Jigglypuff. 
  The stages are amazing to just look at I find myself sometimes stop moving in a middle of a match 
 to look at the stages they have or the ones I made in the new Stage Builder.
  I love that you can choose if a certain music you wanna hear on the stage all the time you can 
 make the music appear all the time or a few times here and there.
  I want to say the speed of the battling in the matches have been turned down a few notches and 
 I don't know if it's a bad thing or a good thing but I think it is 50/50 because I miss the speed 
 of Melee but I also love the fact that I can enjoy the brawling in my matches.
  There is an actual story mode instead of being there stages to finish like in Melee. In Space Emissary 
 it has actual story mode cinematic's like in all video game story modes and there isn't much of 
 voice acting to tell the story but you can probably figure out the story on your own like I did 
 and it is so awesome.
  I am also going to say this there is so much content to try and get all the stuff on here the musics, 
 trophies, characters, stages, and stickers would probably take a few months or even a year to get 
 everything so have fun and play people offline or online and what for the new Smash Bros if there 
 is a new one which there should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mypieisonfire
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  This game proves to be the best in the series with a motherload of characters as well as tons of 
 customability. There are many characters varying from Mr. Game and Watch to Donkey Kong. Though 
 the feel of the gameplay may feel a little awkward for newcomers the Wii remote makes it easy for 
 players new to ssbb to join the brawl. The previous adventure mode foun in Melee proved short, 
 repetitve and cumborsome the new advventure mode entittled: The Subspace Emissary provides tons 
 of levels for players who enjoy that side scrolling action. The only negative that I would give 
 for this game would be that it is too easy to unlock characters as they can be easily unlocked 
 via the adventure mode. Many Super Smash Bros veterans, such as myself, miss the challenge in acquiring 
 all those characters.
  
  Overall an excellent game with an added extra feature; online play. This is an excellent additiion 
 for those who have an acess point or a wifi usb. The online play provides a new challenge as level 
 9 CPU's are quite predictable and easy to beat. Facing against humans make it incredibly fun. 
 
  
  The vaious difficulty pose challenges to both newcomers and veterans alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Willy105
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Online play is fantastic; best soundtrack ever; superb 60 fps graphics; huge selection 
 of fighters and stages; flawless fundamental gameplay; great fun when playing with friends.
  
  THE BAD: Loading times are horrible; you can't play user stages online; if you don't have friends 
 or an online connection, then this game is not for you.
  
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is here and I have been playing it for a while. But with all the reviews 
 that I have read and seen, I couldn't agree with none of them. For some reason, their experience 
 of the game was different from mine. For closer inspection, I noticed that every reviewer's experience 
 of the game was also different from each other. From hours of playing the game and inspecting the 
 whole thing, I finally got it. How every player chooses different characters, how every character 
 chooses different stages, how everybody uses different control schemes, and how nobody can agree 
 with anybody. This is the review of the most perfectly balanced game ever made yet.
  
  First, we will get to the most important and the most used part of the game: the online play. By 
 my experience, it's the best part of the game. After you have entered the friend codes, you can 
 immediately play with them by looking for your friend in the online menu. It shows if your friend 
 is online, offline, playing a brawl, is in spectator mode, or if he's looking for a match. To join 
 the match, just select your friend, and you are immediately thrown to the Select your Character 
 screen. Once you have selected your fighter of your choice (which we will get to in a moment) , 
 you can choose from all the stages you have unlocked. Yep, all stages in the game (except the ones 
 made by you) are fully playable in online. This is including the classic Melee stages!
  
  Because there is more than one player in an online match, of course, you just vote on the stage 
 you chose. The one voted by the most players will be the stage you will go in. If you all chose 
 different stages, then the game will pick one out of the four chosen. It's a very easy, fast and 
 satisfactory process. When playing online, you can assign short messages to your taunts. By performing 
 a taunt, your message will pop up. You can show any of the four messages during the battle. They 
 may be short messages like "LOL", "Owned!", "DUNDUNDUNDUN, CAN'T TOUCH THIS!", or "GOAAAL!", but 
 they get the point across nicely and quickly. Voice chat would have been nice, but this makes a 
 fun substitute. 
  
  After collecting dozens and dozens of friend codes, you will have a huge list of many people, and 
 you will very quickly forget that this isn't Xbox Live. It works a lot like a server browser on 
 a PC game. Just look for somebody hosting a game and you are easily playing. And a great feature 
 in this game to make getting more friends very easy is that you can request friend codes. In the 
 character select screen, under the players name it shows a button "Friend Code Request", and when 
 you click it, both of your friend codes are added automatically into both of your rosters. This 
 is a fantastic online system, and I cannot complain in it's design.
  
  But that is not the only part of the game! There are a couple more online modes other than playing 
 with friends. The other one is Team mode, where you and another online player team up to fight 
 dozens of baddies. There's also the Home Run minigame available to play online, you and a co-op 
 friend work together to throw the sandbag as far away as you can. There is also a Basic Brawl to 
 play without friend codes, but apparently nobody plays this mode, since I could not find another 
 person in the game playing this mode. There's also spectator mode, where you bet on which players 
 will win with coins. The game goes and spies on somebody else's game and you see them fight. If 
 the one you bet on wins, then you get a lot of money! But if the guy you bet on loses, then you 
 lose money. It's like gambling, and a fast and tension-inducing way to get a lot of money for other 
 parts of the game. You also get snapshots, replays, and user stages free from the WiiConnect24 
 daily, which is always nice. The online play is usually lag free, but sometimes, there are spikes 
 of lag that makes the game unplayable. But this is rare an only happens with players that just 
 logged in to a match. The game synchronizes and actually fixes the lag after a couple of seconds.
 
  
  It has a great online, but what exactly is Smash Bros? It's a fighter, but it's not very violent 
 at all. Think the old Tom and Jerry cartoons of the 1940's. You punch your opponent and they actually 
 go flying! In fact, the way to KO them in these series is by throwing them away from the stage, 
 not by actually killing them. Unlike other fighting games, this game is also funny. It's very comical 
 and you get a blast playing with friends in the room. The game itself has not changed much since 
 it's last installment 7 years ago, and that's a very good thing. It has however been improved. 
 This is thanks to its new physics engine. Brawl is the first game in the series to use the Havok 
 physics engine. The big change is not very apparent first, but it does become apparent when you 
 start playing the game at a deeper level. When you throw an opponent, they will bump into another 
 opponent if they are in the way, something that did not happen in Melee. Objects thrown roll down 
 surfaces accurately (although in exaggerated speeds) , and surrounding objects get thrown in the 
 air if there is an explosion. 
  
  Also unlike other fighting games, there are items. You can use these items to help you play defensively 
 or offensively. In fact, items make Smash Bros what it is. There has been people saying that the 
 true way to play Smash Bros is with the items turned off. Which is the stupidest thing I have heard 
 yet. They say only "noobs" use items, but it takes a pro to be able to dodge the items. Turning 
 off items just says "we are not good enough". There are two new kinds of items in Brawl, and they 
 are Assists Trophies, and the Smash Ball. Assist Trophies are like Pokeballs, but instead of Pokemon 
 coming out of them, characters from hundreds of different games come out of them and create havoc 
 in the stage. Some trophies, like Shadow, can change the speed of the game to be in slow motion, 
 and trophies like the Nintendog, can obscure the whole playing field, so you have to rely on your 
 memory of the stage to make sure you don't fall to your death. These items are a lot more fun and 
 impressive than your average Pokeball, but it would be nice if these were playable characters, 
 considering how great and detailed they are.
  
  The other new item is none other than the Smash Ball. They are the Smash Bros equivalent of the 
 fatalities of the other conventional fighting games. When your character breaks open a Smash Ball, 
 they instantly get a super power that they can use to make a spectacular KO. For example, Fox will 
 fly to the sky and fall with his huge Landmaster tank and run over and fire at his opponents. Ness 
 will call out his PK Starstorm power and make a huge rain of meteors far into the stage. Sonic 
 will turn into Super Sonic and turn extremely fast, making people run for their lives, if they 
 can. As I said before, some people will complain it makes the game unfair. It doesn't. You can 
 avoid a character's final smash.
  
  This brings me to how this game is balanced. Although it doesn't initially sound like it, this 
 game is perfectly balanced. It may not seem like it when you pick, for example, Kirby and then 
 you get pummeled instantly by Ike's seemingly unavoidable sword attacks. But you actually can avoid 
 them, as all characters have weak points, and you have to find them. For example, Ike's attacks 
 need to charge, and small projectile or a fine kick in the butt from behind will cancel the charging 
 process and he will be left vulnerable. Strong characters are slow, and super fast characters are 
 weak. Some stages are designed for a certain character and final smash, and other stages are designed 
 for the other kind of character and final smash. It's all in tactics and strategy. Knowing your 
 characters strengths and weaknesses are essential to becoming in success. So if a "noob" comes 
 with someone like Ike, you know what character to use and throw him into shape.
  This is the game where "noobs" cannot survive with an experienced player.
  
  Yet it's very 
 accessible. Unlike other fighters, there are 15 different controller configurations that all do 
 different attacks. In Smash, there are only 3 different buttons that do attack: normal attacks, 
 special attacks, and grab attacks. Normal attacks are done using the main button, be it 2 or A 
 depending on which control style you are using. These are punching and hitting. Special attacks 
 are unique moves that each character has. They can range from a small gun, to a jet pack, depending 
 on the character. These moves can be used to fight from far away, or get back to the stage if you 
 get thrown out, or to deflect projectiles. These can be done by the secondary button, be it 1 or 
 B depending on what controller you use. And the third button is for grabbing, shielding and dodging. 
 This can be B, Z, L, or R depending on what controller you use. When close to somebody, press the 
 button while pressing the D-Pad or Analog Stick, depending on your controller, in the direction 
 they are to grab them. By grabbing them you can hit them and increase their damage while they are 
 trapped, and then you can manually throw them off the stage. Do the same thing, but by facing away 
 from your opponent, and you can dodge, great for dodging attacks, projectiles, and other hazards 
 your opponent throws at you. This is crucial to be a pro at the game. Also, pressing the button 
 without moving will create a temporary shield that will protect you from most attacks, but after 
 time runs out, it explodes, and you are left unmovable for a couple of seconds, making you highly 
 vulnerable to a one way trip to the losing screen!
  
  So why so many options for buttons? That's because you can play Smash in 4 different ways. The 
 first way is the Wiimote sideways. This is most like a NES controller. It's quick, fast and easy. 
 The second way is the Wiimote with the Nunchuck attached. This gives you use of the analog stick 
 and access to motion controlled activated smash attacks, which are very helpful. The third way 
 is by using Nintendo's Classic Controller and the last way is for the Gamecube controller. Both 
 of these play mostly the same way, except with the control stick being in different places, obviously. 
 This part has a lot of controversy, as everybody seems to want to use the Gamecube controller. 
 This is just because is the one they are used to. However, I have been using the Wiimote sideways 
 as my main way to play, and I have found myself being a lot better at the game. Only the "noobs" 
 are using the Gamecube controller, as far as I have seen.
  
  The game has a lot of characters to choose from. You can choose from Mario to Solid Snake to Sonic. 
 Literally. Plus, there are 31 stages in the game! And if you add the returning stages from Melee, 
 it makes up all the way to 41 stages! What is better yet, when you get tired of playing them in 
 a year, you can go ahead and create your own stages! These stages won't have the same production 
 values as the official stages, but you have enough tools to create a great layout to play in. It's 
 a real shame you can't play these online, because that would have been incredible. 
  
  The graphics have gotten a great improvement from Melee. This is greatly apparent on the character 
 models. They are absolutely incredibly detailed! If you thought seeing Mario's overalls in Melee 
 was impressive, wait to you see Diddy Kong's and the Ice Climber's fur effects, Ganon's clothes 
 and hair, Sonic's fluid animations, and Fox's equipment in his belt! The stages are also impressive, 
 since the environments have a great sense of depth and action. They are always moving too, like 
 Final Destination, Summit, and Port Town. If you pause the game and move the camera, you can see 
 how much detail went into the stage even on the parts that you don't see in normal gameplay, as 
 the stages keep on going well into the sides! Phenomenal light effects, fireworks, and moving parts 
 make the game a joy to the eyes. All that and in 60 fps, it incredible. The game is not as 'pretty' 
 as Super Mario Galaxy in that is does use of next-gen graphical effects like blur of depth, bump 
 mapping, and other gizmo's, but it uses of what we had always had for years and creates a fantastic 
 show out of it.
  
  The main production attraction of the game is its soundtrack. The whole thing is licensed, and 
 it only has one new music piece, the main theme made by the same guy that made the Final Fantasy 
 music, in the game. But with 200 tracks of superb music remade and remixed by over 40 artist and 
 composers just brings awe to the work that went into the music of the game. It has new orchestral 
 compositions of classic tunes, and it has remixed modern versions of other tunes from many different 
 games. The amazing orchestral version of the Star Fox theme and the string arrangement of the Smash 
 Bros theme are examples of the hundreds of songs that are on the game. Of course, you may think 
 that quality over quantity is what counts. But what is incredible is that all of these songs are 
 just plain amazing, catchy, and great made. The sound test is actually one of the most visited 
 parts of the game in my experience!
  
  But the game is not perfect. In fact, it's not very polished, believe it or not. The game has absolutely 
 horrible loading times. Well, compared to other games, they actually aren't that bad, but considering 
 this is an actual Nintendo game, where it has a perfect record of their games not having a single 
 loading screen ever, it's a big shock on how this was missed. It takes almost 3 seconds to load 
 a regular match and almost 10 to load a Subspace Emissary (the single player mode) level. It's 
 just unacceptable from Nintendo. The single player mode also could have been better. The level 
 design is rushed, as it feels it wasn't designed for Smash Bros' gameplay. However, the story is 
 fantastic, and the cutscenes are greatly made, even if they look like they could be made in real 
 time. In fact, most of the times the in-game engine looks better than the CGI videos.
  
  There you go. That is why Super Smash Bros. Brawl is the most perfect multiplayer game I have played 
 yet. This game is the most perfectly balanced, most addictive, and funniest game you will play 
 with friends. But if you have no friends and don't have access to online play, then this game is 
 not for you. But if you have more than one person living with you, and have a Wii, then this is 
 a game you cannot go wrong with. It surely deserved the biggest review I have done to date.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: QueenOfGaming
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 16, 2008 4:30 am PT
Review:  You definitely get your moneys worth with this game, there is an adventure storyline mode, one 
 on one, multi player, and online play. You get to collect stickers for upgrades, music, trophy's, 
 and player figures. The graphics are beautiful, it's nice to see that Nintendo put their time into 
 this to show the power of the Wii. The only change that I would have made is that while playing 
 the characters are shown from far away so they are rather small and sometimes makes it a little 
 hard to see what is going on if there are many enemies on the screen. Also they should have given 
 each character a storyline during the single played fighting mode it would have made it more interesting. 
 I'm not a big fighting game person but the characters we all know and love, the fun of power ups, 
 and flinging characters off the ledge drew me in. If you like fun fighting games with tons of extras 
 this is definitely one that is worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dc456
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  In 1999 an unexpected thing happened when Nintendo released Super Smash Bros. People liked it. 
 and after exhausting hours upon hours of gameplay on it, nintendo followed up with a sequel in 
 2001 for the Gamecube, which featured more charcters, trophies, items and a hell of a lot more 
 gameplay to go around.
  
  Now after years of waiting for another sequel Nintendo fans will be pleased to know Super Smash 
 Bros Brawl is the game that defines its genre.
  
  The most obvious diffrence is the charcter roster that has expanded to 36 playable charcters, and 
 covers games from the classic Mario to the ever so ancient Mr. Game and Watch. Plus charcters looks 
 have been updated form there melee look to one more recent (eg. Link, Zelda, Ganandorf all take 
 there look form Twilight Princess) .
  
  Now a Smash Bros. wouldn't be anything without gameplay, and Nintendo thankfully stuck to what 
 works. Taking the game mechanics from melee and applying them to Brawl was definatley the right 
 choice. 
  
  The next big thing in Brawl are the extras. In Melee players got the opportunity to collect over 
 200 trophies. Well Nintendo has expanded that to over 250 trophies to collect and over 200 diffrent 
 stickers to get and using coins in a new minigame called the coin laucher to get them. Plus new 
 levels to unlock from games like Sonic and Luigi's Mansion. Plus being able to play through events 
 now with a friend, and having diffrent challenges to complete will certainly lengthen the amount 
 time you play this game.
  
  Another new mode is the Single Player adventure mode, which is titled "The Subspace Emissary" which 
 will take you about 8-10 hours to complete, and its the mode which features and the CGC cutscenes, 
 and is probely the best way to unlock charcters and get coins and trophies. Although don't plan 
 on buying this game just to play this mode because its more of a side scrolling adventure, which 
 isn't that sophisticated.
  
  But when you have all this good stuff it only means there has to be something bad. In Brawl its 
 load times. At the startup ther is about a 15-20 second load time plus a 10 second load time after 
 almost every cutscene in Subspace emissary. And it really tears you away from the action at times.
 
  
  Overall Brawl is an amazing game and no Wii owner should go without it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pinkyimp
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  the SSB series has came from many years and spanning many of nintendo's consoles, its a series 
 that is classic from its start on the n64 all the way to the nintendo Wii, but im here for SSBB 
 (brawl) so lets get straight to the pros and cons.
  
  pros
  multiplayer
  Controls (play with any controller) !!
  Graphics
  Online
  added features (Masterpieces)
 
  Final Smash
  and the list goes on....
  
  cons
  Graphics (not much of an improvement over SSBM but still noticeable)
  Gameplay (still fun but 
 no Real changes to the fomula, maybe for the better)
  unbalanced final smashes ( many have underpowered/ overpowered smashes)
  
  overall its just 
 fun.... what? what is fun?, y'know the thing that makes you feel good after a long play with friends 
 instead of ppl screaming on mics saying owned, thank god nintendo dident add mic support. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeldafreak108
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 2:36 am PT
Review:  Once again Nintendo has provided a great contribution to the Super Smash Bros series. This game 
 proves to be even better than its previous game.
  
  Sound- 
  The music in this game is remarkable! Nintendo has added plenty of soundtracks to enjoy in each 
 stage and you can gain more soundtracks by simply Brawling or going to the adventure mode (Subspace 
 Emissary) . Another great addition they have done is make remixes of music from older games. You 
 can even make your favorite soundtracks appear more often then others! So basically the sound in 
 this game is utterly flawless. 
  
  Graphics-
  Although it may not have better graphics compared to the Xbox360 the graphics in the game are pretty 
 amazing for a Wii game. I must also mention that the cut scenes are also excellent now that they 
 have added a storyline of some kind to this game.
  
  Game-play-
  First of all there are plenty of stages to brawl on and with the Stage Builder you can now make 
 your own levels to brawl on; although it is somewhat a disappointment that you cannot have more 
 pieces to design your level more.
  
  There is also a new side scrolling adventure mode which can take hours to beat and gives you some 
 entertaining cut scenes.
  
  35 characters to get in this game! Although I was a bit disappointed with the fact that they cut 
 some characters out and that they didn't add even more characters to get.
  
  You can now go on the Internet to brawl with friends or just brawl with random people. Brawling 
 with friends gives you the chance to not only fight but also work together on the Home-run Contest 
 and Multi-Man battle. When brawling against random people you can either do a Team Battle or a 
 Free-for-all battle. Sometimes when you brawl against random people you will find your game beginning 
 to lag a little or maybe even a lot. Yet another disappointment for this game, but other details 
 in the game make up for it.
  
  Overall-
  It's not easy to say every detail in the game so you should just go out and buy it if you don't 
 already have it! Super Smash Bros Brawl is a must buy game! Best title for the Wii and will continue 
 to be amazing for years.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ericG717192
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 2:21 am PT
Review:  You waited so long for Nintendo too tell you a release date. You finally got the release date, 
 waited that terrible wait, just too be let down that there is, unfortunately, a delay, and yet 
 the release date becomes TBA, again. You get the date and wait and wait, then the dreaded TBA came 
 upon you once more. Then, the day came, March 19th, Super Smash Brother Brawl. At last. 
  
  
  Too the chase.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Well of course you would know that this series was already 
 closing in on perfection on terms of the gameplay department. So undoubtfully and thankfully they 
 did not make any major changes in this category. It is still the same old beat your opening off 
 the stage and send them flieng style of play. Still tons of fun I should say though. 
  
  Don't think for a second these game are completely identical. There is so much more added in Brawl, 
 which just makes the game experience that much better. There are even more ways then ever too customize 
 your matches. Also with the addition of more items, including the final smashes just gives you 
 even more variety. Not too mention, the added stages. 
  
  What some people might consider the most important feature of any game is the variety of characters, 
 and this game will infact meet your expectations. With 36 playable characters, you cant go wrong. 
 In addition too those characters, you have assist trophies, which is even more too discover in 
 this block. The ability too customize your own controls is a small, yet very admirable bonus aswell.
 
  
  Also, the game only gets better in multiplayer.
  
  9.5/10
  
  REPLAY/FEATURES: 
  
  Assuming I don't need too repeat myself, you should already know about the availability compromised 
 in this game. 
  
  What will keep you ambitious at first, will be the unlockables per se and the previously mentioned 
 large roster of playable character and stages.
  
  Now what will really keep you hooked onto this game are the features and different modes. You have 
 the events mode, where you will find yourself attempting too complete some in game challenges. 
 The good old home-run contest, this time with a slight tweak (see an FAQ for information) which 
 makes it more enjoyable then ever. They also didn't forget the (personally dreaded) Target Test. 
 Of course they would never forget about the Classic or All-Star mode as well.
  
  This time around however they added a little spin on the typical Super Smash Brothers. This game 
 accually has a story mode, also known as Subspace Emissary (SSE if you will) . Personally on this 
 branch alone I would give it an 8/10. It's got all the components of a good story mode, it just 
 gets somewhat repetitive at points.
  
  After unlocking all the characters and stages, you will be very bored and never want too play this 
 game ever. 
  
  NOT
  
  Since GameCube didn't have online play capabilities, you might have found yourself in that situation 
 with Melee. Not with Brawl though. With the Wi-Fi mode, you wont be putting this disc back in its 
 case for some time. Even if you seem too somehow get bored of Wi-Fi, you can still try and complete 
 all the challenges in the challenges section. You will not find yourself restricted to pre set 
 goals.
  
  The last little thing that should keep you hooked, is the ability to create custom stages. I cant 
 really describe this, but I can tell you that there is so much too do, its just downright fun.
 
  
  Now keep in mind on top of all this fun you will have by yourself. Wouldn't it be much better to 
 do this with another person, a friend? Well you can. Every single mode is capable of Co-op (except 
 for classic) . The game only gets better with the multiplayer addition.
  
  10/10
  
  Graphics:
  
  For a 3rd generation console game, this games graphics is slightly above average. 
 Although if you compare it too other Wii games, you will find this game too have spectacular graphics. 
 The look they have too the main menu and selection screens are somewhat a disappointment, but the 
 beautiful CG graphics definitely make up for it. The in game graphics are also very well done. 
 They have a nice little flash too them, check out some screen shots.
  
  9/10
  
  Sound:
  
  They just went overboard. You will find that there are songs from almost any Nintendo 
 game you can possible imagine. I'm not about too count but there must be about (literally) 500 
 different songs. Now on top of this large selection of music, you also get the ability too choose 
 how often a song is played in a stage. Its just outrageous how much work they spent on the songs. 
 Not too mention that the quality is great as well (as expected with any 3rd generation game) . If 
 you seem too like the tunes in video games, this game can be your new MP3 player.
  
  10/10
  
  All in all, this game is just down right fun. There is so much too do. So many capabilities. 
 You wont find yourself wondering what to do with this game. There is no major, nor many minor flaws 
 in this game at all, and it was definitely worth the wait. You wont be disappointed.
  
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmunger
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2008 11:08 pm PT
Review:  I'll do a REALLY in-depth review with my opinions on ALL stages, characters, ATs, Pokemon, and 
 items later but, right now, I'll just do a sort of in-depth review to save time. And I'll start 
 with some of the (arguably) less important stuff...
  
  Graphics:
  
 
  Reading the latest Brawl reviews I've heard comments being made like 'It's just an enhanced version 
 of Melee'. Well, yeah, it is but there's emphasis on the ENHANCED!!! Seriously, what did people 
 expect? It's a Wii game! It's not capable of XBOX 360 graphics! 
  
  Anyway, this is one of the best looking Wii games out there both technically and artistically. 
 Sure, it's not as artsy fartsy as Mario Galaxy but the contrast in the Green Hill Zone, Yoshi's 
 Island, and Lylat Cruise levels (to name a few) are truly a feast for the eyes. 
  
  As for character design, it's more technical than artsy and not all designs are perfect. *cough* 
 WOLF! *cough* But the Zelda and Fire Emblem characters seem to balance the crappier designs out 
 a little.
  
  
  
  Music:
  
  Oh, God! Where do I even begin? We went from having 2sof songs in the original, to having dozens 
 of songs in Melee, to having HUNDREDS of songs in Brawl! All most every song in the game is a fabulous 
 remix of a clasic Nintendo tune. The variety among them is OUTSTANDING, too. You hear some songs 
 with a country feel, some death metal, some pop/rock, etc. 
  
  Though Brawl has quite possibly the best vg soundtrack in history, there are still a few stinkers 
 in the bunch. Luckily, Brawl gives you the power to choose how often certain songs play on their 
 respective home stages. So, you can kiss 'Right Here, Ride On' goodbye, if you think you have to. 
 (RH, RO is quite possibly the worst song ever written, in my opinion.)
  
  Sound:
  Voice actors aren't as bad as they sound on the 'Brawl US voice actors' video. Though, Pit DOES 
 kinda suck. I wish they hadn't of changed Fox's voice but, whatever. ... Snake pwns the n00bs, Meta 
 Knight's overrated. 'nuff said.
  
  Now, time 
 for the meat and potatoes! The main course! The entrees! The.... I should really stop making food 
 puns.
  
  Any who, this part of the review deals with the game play, starting first with game modes....
 
  
  Though there are minor things like Coin Launcher, Target test, Multi Man Brawl, and Home Run Contest, 
 their are only 4 modes that I dub worthy of being reviewed in a SORTA in-depth review. These are 
 Wi-Fi, Brawl, Clasic, and Subspace Emissary. Let's go in order...
  
  Our Wi-Fi doesn't really work at home, so, I have yet to play a Wi-Fi match. From what I've heard, 
 lag is a big issue in playing 'with anyone'. Maybe once our Wi-Fi starts working again, I'll write 
 more on my opinions on this mode. But, right now, LAG is all I have to say!
  
  Standard Brawl matches with actual people are AMAZING. It's like Melee, only better. Smash Balls 
 add new twists and enhance the game play greatly. Standard Brawls get a 10/10! w00t!
  
  Clasic is what I'd describe as 'different but the same'. This time, the order goes by series, not 
 the 'status' of the matches (2 on 2, metal battle, etc.) . There are some series stages that you'll 
 have to go through every time. Namely, Mario, Kirby, Zelda, and Pokemon (the 'usuals') . But series 
 with only 1 or 2 reps. can have completely random appearances. You never know when you'll be fighting 
 teams or giants or metals, so be prepared for EVERYTHING. Just know that the final match is STILL 
 always between you and Master Hand. Luckily, he's a little bit harder to avoid, in this game. 
 
  
  Subspace Emissary mode is about what I expected it would be, much improved from Adventure Mode 
 in Melee but still not Mario or Zelda quality. Because of this, I tried unlocking most characters 
 through methods OTHER THAN SSE. The only character I obtained through an SSE level was R. O. B. That's 
 it! 
  
  The SSE levels are occasionally confusing but they really aren't too bad. The only level that's 
 really very difficult is the final level called 'The Great Maze'. You can spend HOURS there, if 
 you're not careful and Tabuu (the final boss) is no pushover! All in all, Great Maze sucks, the 
 rest is mediocre....
  
  There are unlockable Boss and All Star modes, but I'll cover those in my more in-depth review of 
 everything. Chances are, you won't play through these levels as much because they occur AFTER you've 
 unlocked everything!
  
  Now, the Game 
 modes are good and all but they'd be nothing without characters, stages, and items! That in mind, 
 let's do a basic overview of these 3 things and then we'll be done!
  
  
  The Characters:
 
  
  I don't know if it's just me, but the characters in Brawl seem about equal. It seems as though 
 anybody can be good with anybody, if they really take the time to learn the character's moves. 
 The only low t-word (I refuse to say it) characters I can think of right off the bat are Wario 
 and Yoshi, I just don't see how people can be GOOD with them! Well, I at least know ONE GUY who's 
 good with Wario.... or so he claims.
  
  
  The Stages:
  
  The stages in Brawl aren't quite as interactive as Sakurai made them seem in his Dojo updates, 
 but I personally think that that's a good thing. If there are too many distractions, the winner 
 will be determined by stage hazaards, not fighting skillz. I think that Brawl did a good job of 
 adding a level of creativity to their stages without making them too distracting.
  
  The Items:
  
  Smash Balls and Assist Trophies are for the win. Other new items aren't quite 
 as cool. The spring board, soccer ball, and smoke ball all seem kinda pointless to me....
  
  
  That is 
 the end of my KINDA in-depth review. If you want to read my review of EVERYTHING I recommend viewing 
 my blog sometime... 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: misterbutt
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  I'm just gonna assume that this is the best of the series because I've never played the original 
 N64 version. I'm given it a 10. There are some things I like better in Melee, but they're made 
 up for by the overall awesomness of the game. The graphics are good, the gameplay is good, everything 
 is freaking awesome. The coolest addition is all the new characters. The Final Smash thing is good 
 except my brother always gets it. That's the only way he can beat me but he claims that he's way 
 better than me. Custom stages are tricky to make (at least to make good ones) but they can be cool. 
 All the new stages are good plus they kept the good Melee stages. This is by far the best Wii game 
 I've ever played. It may be the best game for any system I've ever played. It's definitly worth 
 buying new. If you wait to buy used, you'll probably die of anticipation because no one will sell 
 their copy for like a year. YOU MIUST GET THIS GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  This game will not disappoint. I had high hopes for this game and it came through. It's got the 
 same basic feel as the other SSB games, but this game has so much more. Firstly, it has the SubSpace 
 Emissary. This is a sidescrolling story mode where you get to be almost every character in the 
 game at one point or another. This is the way you unlock the majority of the characters. Its pretty 
 fun though, and its very short. It took me about 8 1/2 hours to beat it, and it was fun the whole 
 time. This game also has more characters than the previous ones and some of these characters are 
 really cool and classic. Like sonic and snake for example. They are pretty awesome. 
  
  This game also has online play which adds a lot to this game fun. You can battle with friend codes 
 or randomly. You can also create your own stages in a stage builder mode which is really cool because 
 theres so many items you can put in your stage.
  
  And then theres the final smashes. These babies can usually turn the tide of battle if you konw 
 how to use it. See, a little glowing ball starts floating through the air and whoever breaks it, 
 gets a chance to use their final smash. Almost everyone has a different FS (the exceptions are characters 
 like falco and fox) . Final smashes are probably my favorite thing that got added to be in this 
 game. They're just so fun to use. Also, the only way you can get your final smash and not use it 
 is if you die before you get the chance to use it. You lose it when that happens. 
  
  The graphics are another great thing about this game. They may not be Xbox 360 graphics, but it 
 definetely beats almost any wii game on the market today. Bottom line, if you liked the other SSB 
 games, or even any fighting game, this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Durffen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  April 1999 could have been history in the making for video games. Super Smash Bros. was my favorite 
 game of all time. Just bringing Mario, Link, and Samus together in one game was incredible, and 
 I never expected it to be as fun as it was. 2 years goes by, and Super Smash Bros. Melee arrives. 
 Most definitely the best GameCube title, seeing as people played it, including myself, up until 
 the release of the next game. Yes, almost 7 years. The third installment of the Super Smash Brothers 
 franchise has finally arrived, quite possibly being one of the most hyped games ever. Does it live 
 up to the hype?
  
  Brawl's gameplay is similar to the the past Smash Bros games. The object is the same as always. 
 Constantly smash your opponent, raise there damage percentage up, and then knock them off the screen. 
 Do this by charging up attacks, using items, or just plain throw them around. Of course, most of 
 the people who read this review probably know everything about Smash Bros. already, so lets go 
 on to the gameplay.
  
  Once again, Brawl plays similar to the past Smash Bros games. But the gameplay is better then ever. 
 Now, you can use 4 different type's of controllers. The GameCube controller, the Wii Remote on 
 it's side, the Wii Remote and Nunchuk combo, or the Classic controller. Not only can you choose 
 between 4 different controllers, but you can now fully customize your controls. You can map any 
 button to almost any action, so the power is all in the players hands.
  
  Between the original Smash Bros, Melee, and Brawl, I would say Brawl by far has the best gameplay. 
 Never has one of the past games felt so balanced out, so responsive, and just overall fun. The 
 speed of the game does feel somewhat different, in a way, but after a few matches, you will get 
 used to it. Brawl give's you a great selection of characters to play as. 35 Characters, technically 
 37, counting Pokmon Trainer. And almost all of them are fun to play as. Characters I would hate 
 to play as in Melee, such as Ice Climbers, are somehow very fun to play as in Brawl. The game is 
 very smooth, and no matter what character you play as, you have a chance. So technically, there 
 is no bad character. I can even sometimes have fun playing as Jigglypuff, and stands a chance against 
 the likes of Link!
  
  Another big new addition to Brawl is the Subspace Emissary. The Emissary actually contains a storyline, 
 with great looking cut scenes, but carries no dialog what so ever, except for some battle cries. 
 Which is probably a good thing, seeing as Nintendo isn't known for having the best voice actors 
 in there games, if they ever do have any. The Emissary is fun to play through, and almost all the 
 characters can be unlocked by playing through it. But it can be repetitive, having to go back and 
 redo most of the stages and battles, and sometimes it can be pretty boring. But it is definitely 
 a great new addition to the game, and the story isn't bad at all. The Emissary will last you a 
 good 8 hours to complete, and around 10 or more if you want 100%.
  
  Online play is one of the biggest additions to Brawl. But it is less then what I expected. Playing 
 with Friends is mostly a smooth, lag free match. But thats not always the case for playing against 
 random people. I have often found myself having really laggy matches against random players. But 
 I have also played lag free matches against random players. I often find myself spending about 
 5 to 10 minutes in the practice room, waiting for players to join. I'm not sure if it is Nintendo's 
 servers to blame, or my connection quality. But from what I have been hearing, it may be Nintendo's 
 servers. So hopefully, the trouble with online play will be fixed within days to come.
  
  The gameplay has never felt so smooth, and never have I played a game that has been so hard to 
 put down. But the gameplay isn't the only thing that runs smooth. Brawl's visuals is probably the 
 best looking Wii title, in my opinion. There is so much detail, the animations are so fluid, and 
 the game just looks so smooth. It runs at 60 frames per second, and it doesn't drop a frame a bit. 
 It uses the Wii to its fullest creating an incredible experience, in both gameplay, and graphics. 
 Of course, the visuals for Brawl are not prefect, and some may argue that it does now look as good 
 as Galaxy. Brawl may have some great detail, but it still manages to look somewhat like an enhanced 
 Melee, but it's still an awesome looking Wii title.
  
  Never have there been so many musical composers in a video game. There are just so many songs in 
 Brawl, and you have control of what music plays where, how often a music plays in what stage, and 
 you can just keep unlocking more songs, even when your playing a standard local brawl!
  
  This game will be played for months at the very least. If Melee lasted many people almost 7 years, 
 then who knows how long Brawl's re-playability will last. Over 250 trophies, over 300 stickers, 
 a Stage Builder, and tons of more features. Plus, Nintendo, if you allow it, will message you a 
 stage everyday that you can download and play, if you choose too. This is the one game that you 
 most definitely need an SD card for!
  
  But, every great game has it's flaws, and as much as some of you want like to hear it, Brawl has 
 some too. Once again, the online mode can be real laggy, and sometimes you may not even find someone 
 to play with, and you may end up spending more time fighting against the bean bag in the practice 
 room then overall online play time. But, if you can find a player to play against, and it isn't 
 laggy, which is isn't all the time, then you will find one humble experience. Also, the Subspace 
 Emissary can be really fun to play through, but like I said, it can be really repetitive and get 
 really boring. And lastly, Seeing as Brawl really pushed the Wii, load times can be very bad. Sometimes 
 even 15 to 20 seconds. Of course, that isn't the worst thing in the world. But you will likely 
 find yourself saying "wow, this it taking a long time."
  
  That being said, I would like to point out that Brawl is not perfect. Complain about the score 
 if you want, but I don't believe Brawl achieves a perfect score. But please do not let any of these 
 flaws stop you from buying Brawl.
  
  Durffen - Live-Wii. net 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funsizer7693
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  I was so excited for this game in the months leading up to its release... and it absolutely lived 
 up to and surpassed my expectations. The new additions (characters, stages, etc.) were all great, 
 and the only thing i had a real problem with was the subspace emissary, which was fun, but felt 
 a little tacked on. The game also kept everything about the old games that we all loved. Local 
 multiplayer is still great, as well as the online (when it works) . Even the graphics are great 
 considering its a wii game, especially the gorgeous cinematics in SSE. Bottom Line: You need to 
 go buy this game.
  
  Pros: great graphics for Wii, awesome multiplayer, engaging yet simple controls, very good even 
 on your own, familiar feel makes it very easy to jump into.
  
  Cons: SSE could be better... well thats kinda it... yep pretty much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vietboi89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  First let me start by saying if you own the Wii and you didnt get this game for whatever fricking 
 reason than you should just destroy your wii and off urself. The reason for wii was Super Smash 
 Bros Brawl, not for the nunchucks, or the motion censor, and all that Wii stuff, the Wii was intended 
 for this one particular game. Yea sure there will be thousands or even millions of you that will 
 disagree but whatever screw you all. All im saying is that i got the Wii for this game and some 
 others that looked cool and were Wii exclusive. 
  Ok so this review might be short cause i like this game so lets do it the old fashioned way. I 
 wont do it the number way just the good, great, omg its so real and the omg its so ugly kinda thing
 
  
  Graphics: Great
  I must say pretty good for a wii game. Matches some games on the 360 and PS3 but obviously not 
 the really outstanding visuals games of these consoles. Anyhoo the games nice to look at, there 
 are a lot of nice visual that are just full of colors and cut scenes are great and you know the 
 rest. Brawl pwns in the graphics department.. for a wii game. The scenes in the adventure mode 
 may are just stunning. I know there are some people out there that say other games have way better 
 visuals and Brawl's graphics are crap compared to some of those games but they can all get hit 
 by a bus because this is FRICKING SUPER SMASH BROS and you cant f*ck with that and also its primary 
 selling point isnt its visual (though they did exceptionally well there) its the gameplay.
  
  Sound: Astounding
  What can i say, great sound track and every bit of sound u here in Brawl 
 fits in perfectly. (they even have the MGS4 theme how freaking awesome is that) 
  
  Presentation: I'm almost blinded by its shine
  One thing I can say is if you never heard of super 
 smash bros at all even if you have never touched anything related to nintendo then shame on you, 
 go die alone or something. Super Smash Bros is nearly everywhere all those features just make it 
 so tempting to play after getting delayed around 3 times, Nintendo is such a tease like a really 
 naked hot chick on the other side of the window. So getting back to what im saying nintendo has 
 definitely out done themselves on this. So many goodies that were leaked out little by little to 
 make those Smash Bros fanatics a little less sane and instable each passing day. the moment you 
 choose to play Brawl theres this big "whiwoosh" sound and all u can think is "OMG its its... SUPER 
 SMASH BROTHERS brawl." 
  
  Gameplay: well if you played Melee than you can expect the exact same AWESOMENESS
  Alright I'm 
 gonna try to keep this simple since A LOT of stuff was added and i wont go through most of them 
 since its a bit hard to think of them a top of my head but lets hit the core of the game... FIGHTING. 
 Alright you pick your fave nintendo character/gladiator and prepare to face 3 others just waiting 
 to rip you a new hole and then freaking sodomize it until you get knocked off stage. Of course 
 you can choose to team up with someone making it 2 on 2 or a brutal gang bang all in all very fun 
 (im using these terms cause when you actually play the game u kinda feel this way when you're just 
 getting brutally beaten especially when u get drilled to death by a weird rabbit bunny thing... 
 DAMN BUNNY) Fighting is solid as with its predecessors but you can expect that some characters 
 got balanced or as i liked to call it F-ing nerfed (Sheiks not a ninja anymore just flashy) So 
 if you got really comfortable with melee meaning if you are one of those obsessed freaks who played 
 Melee every day or every week since it came out then too bad ur gonna have to learn some new tricks. 
 All the characters are incredibly unique with the exception that some may seem like they are imitating 
 another char moves but still they feel different if you refer to speed, timing, power and some 
 other stuff that i cant seem to think about right now (especially Snake he is a killer only if 
 you know how to use him and if you dont then o well prepare to get screwed by him) . Ok now off 
 to single player classic and adventure. Classic well it delivers what it promises and some nostalgia 
 thats always nice. Adventure well it is very long or maybe thats me idk. I just wanted to get all 
 the characters and i thought Subspace Emissary might be the quickest way but that was dumb though 
 there arent any better ways of actually getting new characters faster. The whole Subspace Emissary 
 thing is very impressive though that is not y i paid 50$ for. I know that nintendo probably spent 
 about idk 90% of their time working on the Subspace thing since its just so flashy and it is very 
 veyr nice but hey gimme all the characters first then if i want to play subspace emissary than 
 i'll get to it. Nintendo sort of forces to play Subspace if you want to actually play a completed 
 Super Smash Bros. Some characters are easier to release if you play Subspace though i kinda wanted 
 to brawl on versus mode more than single player. All in all single player is good if your not in 
 a rush like i was. WOOHOO!!!! ONLINE SUPER SMASH BROS. Alright peoples internet is always a wonderful 
 thing unless you get a trojan from watching too much porn (dont download the really small files 
 and stop clicking the ads) Now Brawl takes the fight on the web but you should probably grab a 
 drink b4 going into battle since it takes so long to connect and find an opponent. (this is only 
 for fight with anyone option) The random battles only last 2 minutes so it is fairly quick though 
 i doubt u can change those options since theres not much option in the online department of the 
 game, u just wait about 5 min to brawl it out for 2 min then bask in victory for about 10 seconds 
 and go back for another (this only applies to winners all else just turn off your Wii and feel 
 bad) Its really rewarding only if you win tho, if you lose then go back to getting pounded by the 
 computer. i havent tried the friends option since its a hassle to make friends these days (jk all 
 my friends dont have Wiis cause they fail... Im friends with failures) Online option is pretty 
 nice until it starts lagging like a slug, a match lasted about 5 minutes because of an incredibly 
 huge lag but we got back to fighting and i won around 5 to 1 (yea those guys really sucked) Also 
 as many of you know SSBB is a game that requires you to make nanosecond moves and decision unfortunately 
 that is not carried over to online settings very well so if your internet is crappy dont expect 
 to win a lot especially if your opponents is IKE and his sword that is supposedly a colossal weapon. 
 If your going to play online than Ike is probably the best character to win with.
  
  Conclusion: Super Smash Brother Brawl is just too damn good to put price on luckily its sold for 
 50$ so hell yea this game is definitely worth the experience.
  
  Ps. I just wanted to say that Zero Suit Samus is F-ing Hot!!!!
  
  AND IT GETS A 10!!!!!!!!
 
  No it doesnt I'm a reasonable guy it gets a 9 POINT SOMETHING!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: penguinboy95
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  as 75% of the population knows about this game, Nintendo did a near perfect job making this game 
 (I'm just making that percent at the top of this article up and I'm probably very close to the 
 actual percent) . the game is virtually a what if and whose better situation like what if link met 
 mario and started fighting and who would win? the game allows you to play as a few characters from 
 just about the most popular and old games in the Nintendo series and for the first time 2 non Nintendo 
 characters. now besides all the old multiplayer and classic mode Nintendo entirely remade the adventure 
 mode so it's not something a grandma with incredibly bad reactions and no skill with a controller 
 could do. they also added stickers which can power up characters, playable demos of older games, 
 stage builder, and lots more things that can keep you busy until the yoshis come home from returning 
 mario. well until next time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sugarcandysin
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Awesomest game ever! I'm obviously not the only one to say this!
  
  Gameplay (10/10)
  This game is like, a fighting game, basically! But there is more to that! More awesome than any 
 other fighter! The objective to KO is to send your opponents off the stage! The damage is with 
 percents. The higher the percent, the higher the opponent goes off the screen when you try to send 
 them in the air! It might sound pretty boring, but it's actually very fun! The fun is very hard 
 to explain, in my opinion. You'll probably have to see for yourself. You can even create your own 
 stages with parts available for you, and send them to friends. There's screenshots available in 
 the game, great for taking pictures of funny scenes! And replays too, but it only lasts for 3 minutes! 
 Bummer, huh? And you can send them to your friends online! Oh yeah! And the fun will NEVER end, 
 now you can take on opponents online! There are 41 stages I think, and around 30 characters to 
 choose from! There's even a story mode which has really fun cutscenes! It also has ALOT of modes, 
 and the matches are practically customizable! You can choose many options, I feel pretty lazy to 
 list them though, hehe. Alot to unlock, and this game is sure to last a long time! There's alot 
 to this game, but if you really need more info, check Gamespot's review!
  
  Graphics (9/10)
  The game's graphics look really cool! I just wish that the game wasn't so detailed. 
 I mean, look at Mario's overalls.
  
  Sound (9/10)
  The music is awesome! Alot of songs are in this game that you can unlock! Alot of them are good! 
 And the character sounds are really funny sometimes too! :D
  
  Value (10/10)
  Most awesome game EVER! You'll get more than you ever payed for it!!!
  
  Reviewer's Tilt (10/10)
 
  Awesome game, great especially when you have a friend to play with, overall, great game!
  
  -TOTAL SCORE- (10/10)
  A good game with the greatest multiplayer in the world! It will probably 
 last for months, or even YEARS! One of the most recommended titles for the Wii! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fett76
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  First off, let's get the "Nintendo Fanboy" business out of the way I spend the vast majority of 
 my console time on the 360. Most of the rest is spent on the PS3 (well, OK most of that is watching 
 blu-ray) . The Wii is mainly around for party games when the wife or friends want to play.
  
  Hopefully then, you'll trust that when I give Super Smash Bros Brawl a 10, it isn't because 
 I have Marion tattooed on my bicep (or anywhere else for that matter) .
  
  I don't think there is any such thing as a "perfect game". It's like a perfect piece of art or 
 a perfect song; they just don't exist. For me, a 10 game is one that helps justify the expense 
 of buying the console. It's a game that, when the next generation of console comes around, makes 
 you think twice before tossing your old hardware. For me, games like Final Fantasy VII, Halo, and 
 Baldur's Gate fall soundly into this category.
  
  SSBB belongs in this category. I am new to the series, so I can't say how it stacks up against 
 its predecessors. On its own though, the game is brilliant. 
  
  At first I was a little disappointed by the lack of a comprehensive combo system, but over time 
 I came to realize that SSBB isn't trying to be like Tekken or any of its ilk. The fact is, there 
 is plenty of action in SSBB without a real combo system, and adding something like that to the 
 game would have interfered with one of the game's main charms: that the characters feel a lot like 
 they do in their assorted native environments. Mario controls a lot like he did in the SNES games. 
 The same is true for Samus, Sonic, and the rest of the crowd. This is what really sells the game. 
 It's amazing to see all these different characters from such a diverse background come together 
 in one game in a way that really works well.
  
  The "story mode" of the game, Subspace Emissary, is practically a game in itself, with fantastic 
 production values and great level design. It does a fantastic job of getting you to play all the 
 characters in the game in a way that makes sense, and really excels at building a story that involves 
 them all in a way that makes sense. I have a few gripes about SSE (e. g. I didn't care for the auto-scrolling 
 levels, and there is a lot of repetition) , but as a standalone game, I'd probably have given it 
 a 7 (it's also a little short to be a standalone) . The fact that it's a side part of a bigger game 
 is what makes it so amazing.
  
  I do have a minor gripe with the soundtrack. The music is reminiscent of the games from which the 
 characters were taken, but not quite to the part to make me feel nostalgic. I get that the designers 
 were trying to give the old stuff a new feel, but with the vintage gameplay from the characters, 
 I'd have rather had more traditional music.
  
  The graphics in SSBB are some of the best I have seen on the Wii, although the engine kind of cheats 
 with a rudimentary anti-aliasing that blurs the picture (although this can be turned off) . To be 
 fair though, graphics aren't the main selling point of the Wii, and asking a 480p picture to look 
 great on a 55" HDTV isn't reasonable.
  
  The Wii's motion sensing capabilities are pretty much non-existent in SSBB (other than shaking 
 the remote for some attacks, which is off by default) . I guess this makes sense since SSBB supports 
 all kinds of controllers, but I wish I could use the remote to at least navigate the menus, which 
 look like they were designed for it. Again, this is a pretty minor gripe.
  
  All in all, I love SSBB and am glad I added it to my collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simpsons2102
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  well we waited tireless months and many delays but it is finally here. Super smash bros brawl. 
 The best game of the year so far and probly going to be game of the year. Melee was really good 
 but this is way better. The story mode is extremely fun especially doing co op with a friend. I 
 thought this game was perfect in almost every way. First off theres the graphics which are amazing 
 for a nintendo wii game. The gameplay is fantastic just beating other people senseless. The music 
 is great its mostly just tracks from other games like mario bros and zelda but thats a really good 
 thing. The controls are cool cause there are like 4 different ways to play. The multiplayer mode 
 is amazing with or without alot of people. There are alot of stages to make it even more fun. Theres 
 even target smash and home run hitting contests which are really fun. The only thing i didnt like 
 was that have to unlock the hidden characters by doing subspace emissary but i liked it better 
 having to work for them like in melee. Well altogether i think this game is perfect. SSBB FOR GOTY 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario2BM5
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  I mightve said in my review of SSBM that its the best game ever. I was WRONG! Its almost too obvious 
 that SSBB is the best game of all time! Where do I even start off. I mean theres just so much to 
 talk about that I couldnt fit it in one whole review. I'll start off with the story then. The story 
 is of course part of the Subspace Emmisary so at least I cover one of the modes and the story. 
 Anyways there really isnt any story but this is how I think the people of Nintendo thought of the 
 story so here goes nothing. Mario and Kirby are in this fighting tournement and this is the final 
 round while Peach and Zelda watch the match in amusment. When the match is finally over this stange 
 creature comes and drops a dark bomb. Mario is sent flying in the air, Zelda was turned into a 
 trophy, Wario captured Zelda, and Peach and Kirby barely made it out alive. Pit, on the other hand 
 was watching the match and the Queen or whatever sent Pit to aid Mario in trying to save Peach 
 and Zelda. Meanwhile Bowser is stealing DK's banannas but then DK knocks Diddy Kong out the way 
 so Diddy wouldnt be turned into trophy but he will and Bowser takes DK away. While Diddy Kong was 
 trying to escape he meets up with this pokemon that tries to kill him but then Fox, jumping out 
 of his broken Arwing saves Diddy and know Fox and Diddy are gonna try to find Falco and DK. Int 
 the deserted plains of castles Marth sees a bomb getting set and goes off trying to stop it. When 
 Marth reaches it he swipes his sword but misses then Ike comes and breaks the bomb. Link now knowing 
 that Zelda has been captured sets off to get the Master Sword in the place right next to where 
 Yoshi was sleeping at. Dark clouds come and Link and Yoshi try to see whats going on. Meanwhile 
 Samus finds the Varia Suit while Pikachu follows her. Ridley soon goes into the base where they 
 were at and went to stop Ridely. They stopped Riddely and see dark clouds and try to investigate 
 what it is. While in the woods Captain Olimar lands there and is confronted by a giant ROB. Scared 
 to death the Pkmin decide to help the captain but then soon fail. Then out of no where Captain 
 Falcon comes in his F-Zero car jumps out and stikes down the big ROB. Captain Olimar and Captain 
 Falcon set off to investigate whats going on with the land. Lucas and Ness meet up with Wario and 
 Wario tries to zap Ness into a trophy but Ness was to fast and aims at Lucas but then Ness pushes 
 Lucas out of the way and sacrafices himself. Lucas runs away from the seen and meets up with the 
 Pokemon Trainer. Both set off to get the other two pokemon the Pokemon Trainer needs and try to 
 seach for Wario and getting Ness back. The graphiccs are awesome and lag rarely. It runs at 480p, 
 16x9 widescreen. Sure it dosent add up to Mario Galaxy but this is one game for the Wii that you 
 cant help and look at. The gameplay is what all of the Smash fans like the most. with just 2 attack 
 buttons and 10 buttons to use you can do over 25 different attacks, techniqes, and defensive moves 
 you can do. The gameplay is smooth, addicting, and fun. The variety of modes are amazing! There 
 is Home Run Contest, Training, Event Match, Multi Man Brawl, All Star, The Subspace Emmisary, Classic, 
 Trophies, Stickers, Coin Launcher, Stage Builder, Snapshots, Marterpieces, Handicap Brawl, Special 
 Brawl, Rotation, Tourney, Masterhand, Co-op events, Target Smash, Options, Controls, My Music, 
 And finally the best of all Wi-fi! Im not going to explain every single one, but I am going to 
 explain Wi-fi. In Random Brawl you face off against a random person for only 2 minutes and with 
 no items. There are no online leader boards which sucks cause I would like to see who is the best 
 but oh well, you dont really need to see who's the best anyways. In friend matches it really fells 
 like a real Brawl. You can put items set lives, and rules. The sound is outstanding! The voice 
 acting from Wolf, Pit, Fox and Falco and a lot to what the Wii can really do. The music is amazing. 
 There are over 314 songs to choose from, most of which are remixes to classic songs. This game 
 is incredible and if you dont have this game then you have a serious problem. This goes out to 
 any Wii owner, you need this game. This game will last for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluffykins8
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is an outstanding fighting game that is a joy to anyone who plays it. With 
 characters from all over the Nintendo universe and beyond, this has some of the most memorable 
 characters ever seen in video games all in a single fighting game to see who's at the top. With 
 over 25 characters, each with their own speed, weight, power, move set, jumping ability, etc. Unlike 
 most games, which feature a health bar, Super Smash Bros. Brawl features a damage meter, which 
 as it increases, gives you a higher potential to be KO'd, or knocked offscreen. But anyways, to 
 break it up into subsections, this is what the game is like. 
  
  _-* Group *-_
  
  Group matches are generally multiplayer matches, which consist of a total of 35 characters, 23 
 starting characters and 12 unlockable characters. Many stages are also available, some new and 
 some returning. For example, a brand new stage that brings out all new experiences is PictoChat. 
 A classic stage that has returned with a slight tweak here and there is Final Destination, now 
 a starting stage. The main goal in a multiplayer match, or in other words a Brawl, is to either 
 get as many KO's within a set time limit (time match) , KO your opponent until they run out of lives 
 (stock matches) , collect as many coins and what not in a set time limit (coin matches) or KO an 
 opponent as many times as you can or until they run out of lives within a set time limit (timed 
 stock match) . You can also set other options such as making your character invisible, giving them 
 a life bar, bunny hoods, etc. in Special Brawls. Tourneys, formerly known as Tournament, feature 
 a style in which the winner proceeds and the loser drops out, which goes on until the final match. 
 Last of all in my very brief explanation is Rotations, which are when several people rotate amongst 
 different characters for a total of 16 players in all.
  
  *Character Abilities*
  
  Characters in Super Smash Bros Brawl vary greatly from each other. Each character, as mentioned 
 above, has specific traits that decide how they will perform in matches. Weight decides how quickly 
 the character moves and how difficult it is to be sent flying off the stage. Damage represents 
 how much damage a character can deal out in a Brawl, which is usually decided by how powerful a 
 character is. Speed is an attribute that classifies a characters attack and movement speed. Generally 
 speaking, most speedy characters will be fairly weak and light, whereas slow characters will generally 
 be powerful and heavy. Jumping ability determines the ability to recover from offstage after you 
 are knocked off, which has no particular deciding factor of how well the character will jump. Last, 
 but most certainly not least, comes the all important Final Smash. Final Smashes are incredibly 
 powerful attacks that can only be unleashed after destroying a Smash Ball, an item of great power 
 and priority. Final Smashes have 5 different types, generally speaking again. These are directly 
 controlled Final Smashes, indirectly controlled Final Smashes, uncontrolled Final Smashes, connection 
 dependent Final Smashes, and basic Final Smashes. Directly controlled Final Smashes denote that 
 your character will see a great improvement in power, speed, and possibly size (such as Bowser's) . 
 A Final Smash will rarely fall into this category. Indirectly controlled Final Smashes are Final 
 Smashes in which your character launches an attack (or you do) , and you control the general direction 
 of it (such as Diddy Kong's Final Smash) . Uncontrolled Final Smashes consist of you merely pressing 
 the special move button, and your character will unleash their Final Smash on their own (such as 
 Lucas' Final Smash) . Connection dependent Final Smashes rely on connecting with an initial attack, 
 and then your character will automatically complete the rest of it (such as Link's) . Last but not 
 least, miscellaneous Final Smashes are attacks that contain a side effect, such as Samus' Zero 
 Laser Final Smash (an indirectly controlled Final Smash) has the aftereffect of changing you into 
 Zero Suit Samus. That concludes my brief description of Character abilities. 
  
  _-* Solo *-_
  
  Solo is a form of play where a single person (or despite the name another human 
 player) participate in a series of different modes. One, for example, is Classic mode, which is 
 familiar to all Smash Bros. veterans. Events return, which you play as a preset character and participate 
 in a preset battle. Unique objectives sometimes lie in event matches, such as getting a KO before 
 the stage reaches a certain point in its track. Stadium is a very unique mode, where you can play 
 Target Smash!!, a fun minigame in which you must attempt to break every target without getting 
 KO'd, Home-Run Contest, in which you whack Sandbag until the timer counts down to "1" at which 
 point you should nail him with a full swing of the home-run bat provided. A barrier (which is breakable) 
 is now set here, so new strategies such as throwing the bat at Sandbag are open. Training mode 
 is important to people who want to perfect each and every one of their strategies, or just mess 
 around with items etc. Training mode is something I recommend visiting on occasions to freshen 
 up on your skills. The Subspace Emissary is explained below, for it deserves its own section.
 
  
  *The Subspace Emissary*
  
  The Subspace Emissary is the story mode of Super Smash Bros. Brawl, and is the first true adventure 
 mode in the Smash Bros. series. The Subspace Emissary details what life is like in the Smash Bros. 
 world when an army of evil visits their realm. Led by the Ancient Minister, *SPOILERS* (or for 
 those of you who have progressed further, another being...) *END OF SPOILERS* the Subspace Army 
 envelopes the Smash Bros. world in Subspace, until the heroes of it stand together and take on 
 the leader. Throughout the Subspace Emissary, you can unlock characters and fight bosses. Truly 
 a great experience.
  
  _-* Vault *-_
  
  The Vault is unique in that it contains new features. From the Vault, you can access snapshots, 
 trophies, stickers, NES game trial versions, stage builder, replays, chronicle, and challenges. 
 Challenges are a vital part of the game that give you hints to unlocking special trophies, stickers, 
 stages, CD's, and more. Trophies return with no particular role in the game, other than story mode, 
 but stickers do. Stickers give characters certain bonuses, but only give these bonuses in story 
 mode. NES trial versions are fun while they last, but all in all could have been made longer. Stage 
 builder is very fun to me, as it allows you to design your own stage (however it has many limitations 
 in comparison to the stages you will see in Brawl) . Through certain tasks you can unlock more parts, 
 which can be used after unlocked. Stages can be small, medium, or large sized with 3 different 
 backgrounds that will decide the look of some parts and will give different parts depending on 
 which background is used. 
  
  And now, for the overall results!!
  
  _-* Gameplay= 10
  
  A solid fighting game with fairly simple controls and a small learning curve, you will be playing 
 this game the instant you pop it in like it was a game you've owned for months. 
  
  _-* Graphics= 10
  
  Not top notch graphics, but for Wii, they're at the top! As quoted by Lark 
 Anderson, "and even when four players are battling each other onscreen at once in the largest levels, 
 the frame rate never drops once."
  
  _-* Value= 10
  
  Spend $50 on this game, and very soon you will have played 50 hours of it! Worth every penny!
 
  
  Overall, this is the game that you want for Wii. If you buy anything for your Wii, it should be 
 this game. Online fun, Offline fun, solo fun, and all in all, fun. Not having this game and having 
 a Wii is like having tons of gas but not owning a car. One is pointless without the other. Maybe 
 on some online match, me and you, reader, will Brawl. 
  
  Best of luck!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stupid_Alien
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is by far the greatest out of its series. This game has it all: Plumbers, 
 monkeys, puffballs, babes, an angel, bounty hunters, a robot, and even more. As for the Solo mode, 
 it was surprisingly fun, comprared to Melee's, but now it's harder, since it's Very Easy mode is 
 no more and Very Hard has been replaced by Intense, and it is very intense. The Adventure mode, 
 dubbed the Subspace Emissary, now has a full depthed plot, but is much, much longer than you would 
 think. Plan on having some breaks in between. The other Solo modes are also good, such as Classic, 
 Events, Staduim, and some secret modes that I'm not speaking about. Then there's, of course, Brawl's 
 multiplayer. It's everything you can think of it being, with a few added surprises. The stages 
 are more chaotic, the items are more crazy, the characters more insane, and special mode can now 
 be customized. Now you can take pictures anywhere you like, if a few exceptions. The trophies are 
 also back, and there's over 500 of them. Along with collecting trophies, you can collect stickers, 
 which help your characters' stats. You can collect these in the Coin Launcher, which can be fun 
 and a little repetivite. One added thing is the Challenge mode, where you can see what you have, 
 and haven't unlocked, and you can use several hammers to break a challenge that's too hard for 
 you. Now you can build a stage of your choice, but this isn't quite like Halo 3's forge. You can 
 still have fun with this mode though. You can still watch movies and look at pictures you have 
 taken, but you have to collect the music that look like CDs now, so if you want to get a certain 
 one, it might take a while. One of the more anticapated modes, the online feature, is very fun, 
 but be prepared for lag, and make sure you get your friends numbers. With all these pros must come 
 cons. The roster is still big, but it could have done much better, such as giving more characters 
 more defined attacks, instead of using others, such as SPOLIERS!! Ganondarf and Captian Falcon 
 and Ness and Lucas, and the number of characters should be even bigger. The swimming action when 
 in water could also do some improvments, such as being able to stay in longer and being able to 
 fight in the water too (Squirtle should be able to swim forever at least! Come on!) . Some of the 
 physicals need to be improved to, since you need to be so precise on picking up items. These are 
 my only complaints though. This can be easily one of the best games ever in history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kpggalla16
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2008 10:42 pm PT
Review:  This game brought back the first memories of playing melee for the 1st time. New Characters, levels, 
 items, modes... Of course, Brawl is more fun and better. Ike is the coolest Character to me on 
 Brawl. Anyways, I love how Nintendo created this one. The movements are way more realistic and 
 flow better, unlike SSB 64 which was obviously too slow and SSBM which was too fast and quick. 
 Brawl fixed the game speed problem. Along with the graphics obviously. Love the new look of Link 
 and Fox. 
  Although this game is virtually perfect, theres only ONE thing I was upset about... They had to 
 have Fox, Falco and Wolf have the almost EXACT same final smash. They shoulve done something, like 
 have one of the 3 turn into a jet plane, like the ones off of StarFox, but whatever. The gameplay 
 itself got Much, much better. I think it was because Ive been playing Melee for the past 7 years.
 
  Brawl is the only game that one should consider getting that system just for that game only, if 
 any. Awesome job nintendo did by coming up with some new and unique items. Hot head is cool, oh, 
 and the thing that makes SSBB a Rock On Game, the Smash Ball. Such a revolution! I have yet to 
 play 1 player on the Subspace Emissary, that is why I'm saving my money because I have ZERO video 
 games at my house. Get brawl. NINTENDO 4 PRESIDENT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scottins
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  I have been a big fan of the orginal Super Smash Bros and I was expecting a game not quite as good 
 as the orginal. I though that with all the new characters they wouldn't focus on the details that 
 make it fun. I was wrong. This game is fantastic. I'm sure you now already with the 350+ reviews 
 that have been writen. Still though I thought I needed to put my thoughts in. 
  
  One thing that surprised me was in the Subspace E. how good the cut-scenes were.
  
  One bad 
 thing is that the Wiimote isn't very good for the game. I was hoping that it would be good enough 
 to use but it just wasn't. My main complaint is that the tap jumping was really hard and sometimes 
 it wouldn't work the way you wanted it too. 
  
  Overall this game is amazing. This was one of the major games I was looking forward to when the 
 Wii came out. Altough the delay in the game's release was sad, I'm glad I waited for this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toon_ROB
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  You guys remember melee right. The best selling fighting game on the cube. Well after seven years 
 of a grueling wait the brawl of the lifetime is here. And its everything we expected and more.
 
  
  Brawl is just like the 2 previous fighters. Theres a wide variety of nintendo characters that most 
 you may know and some you might not, lots of items and stages and some bonus features too. There 
 is a percentage system. The higher the percent is the stronger the impact of your attack will be 
 and the higher chance of your opponent getting knocked off the screen. SImple right. Well it is 
 but if you want to get into some fighting depth it does get rather difficult and fast paced. There 
 are b and a attaacks. The A attacks are the smash attacks and the B attacks are like the special 
 attacks. Now that your introduced to the whole series of smash brothers let me get more into the 
 things in brawl
  
  Brawl took everything melee had, tripled it making the fighting alot easier but more enjoyable. 
 Brawl has way more additions to it. over 40 stages and a stage builder, 35 characters including 
 veterans like mario and link and newcomers like king dedede and pokemon trainer and wifi mode while 
 still keeping the things like home run contest and target test from the other smash games. 
  
  Like i said 35 characters. You may be thinking "oh thats not enough why not about 50" But get 
 real guys 35 is alot more than melee. And even if there are some clones they all have different 
 ways of playing. Unique characters like pokemon trainer and pikmin & olimar do bring alot of spice 
 into the game of brawl. There are more technical characters this time and alot more ways to master 
 them.
  
  One of my favorite parts of brawl would have to be the wide variety of stages. All the new stages 
 in the game are amazing. For example my favorite would have to be castle siege ( i think thats 
 what the fire emblem level is called) and Pictochat. Also for people who liked the melee stages 
 theres about 8 of those including my favorite Onnet. There is also a stage bulider were you can 
 be imaginative and make your own cool stages. Put the music you would like for it a waa-laa there 
 you go its your new stage you can brawl on. Only problem is you cant use user created stages on 
 wifi.
  
  Speaking of wifi theres still that to discuss. Wifi was the best addition to brawl by far. There 
 are to main modes play with anyone or play with friends. On play with anyone you can do a team 
 battle which is well.. a team battle lol, basic brawl which means up to 4 people duking it out 
 and spectator where you can watch and bet on who will win in other matches. The issue with play 
 with anyone is that you cant make your own rules and its always a 2 minute match. Then theres the 
 cool part the play with friends. You get a friends friend code and you add it to your friend list 
 then pick any moode it shows and have fun with your friends. Ive only done the basic brawl and 
 home run contest on wifi so far. The basic brawl is alot better with friends because its fun to 
 see how well your friends are shaping up in brawl from time to time. Then theres home run contest 
 were you can try and break records on hitting mister sandbag with the home run bat.
  
  There is a thing in brawl called vault. its were all the extra stuff is. There is a trophy and 
 sticker room. you get trophies and stickers by playing a fun aracde like shooter mini game using 
 the coins you got from other modes (which im gonna talk about later) . there is also an area in 
 the vault to see replays and pictures you made. Its a very cool feature
  
  Now were going to the SSE. I actually liked it unlike other people. Its was well done and the cute 
 scenes were amazing. It kinda gives you that old school side scrolling brawl type game feeling 
 (sort of like that snes TMNT game and streets of rage) . The mode lasts for about 8 hours and will 
 sure to help you unlock most things in the game.
  
  So as you can tell brawl is the best game of all time In my opinion and may be your favorite game 
 too, I know your all going to love all the work Sakurai put into this game. Please Pick this game 
 up if you have not already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hero254
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Sorry I've been skimpy on the reviews. What I am about to tell you is going to be the greatest 
 single thing to tell you. Super Smash Bros. Brawl is the BEST GAME EVER FOREVER! Sakurai has definally 
 did a good job as it has more features & game modes from Melee. If you have friends, The the Multiplayer 
 modes will keep you up until the wee hours of dawn. Don't worry if you are a loner. They still 
 have some awesome Single Player modes. They bought back Classic, Break the Targets, Home run contest 
 & Multi Man Melee. (Now Multi Man Brawl.) I'm dissapointed they didn't bring back Race to the Finish, 
 but that's ok. The real meat of the game is it's Drasticly changed Adventure Mode! It's not linear 
 anymore. Called the Subspace Emmisary, This new adventure has you playing with many of the playable 
 cast. It's a bit repetitive as the enemies will gang up on you. Gameplay also hasn't changed much 
 from Melee, but they took out Wavedashing, & the Air Evasion is useful. The controls are the best.... on 
 Gamecube controls. Every other control, you'll have to get used to. There are new characters that 
 I grown used to. Meta Knight is awesome! Also the third party characters Snake & Sonic are an awesome 
 addition. The stages are also cool. I like the ideas of Assist Trophies. Some have voices like 
 Knuckle Joe & Lyn, others make me smile like Saki from Sin & Punishment. Most just annoy me. (See 
 Resetti, Devil & that Nintendog.) All in all Super Smash Bros. Brawl is the best addition to your 
 library like Super Mario Galaxy. The graphics have slightly changed, There are new game modes, 
 & it' still reigns as the King of party games. BUY IT... NOW!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkFlareKin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  After being delayed for a long a time, this game made a big impresion on a whole lot of people. 
 With new characters such as Pit and Meta Knight, you will see new attacks and new strategies available. 
 Subspace Emissary, the new story mode, uses most of the characters and is really good. There is 
 still a Classic mode, and the characters you battle are still changing as you unlock. However, 
 if you were skilled with Roy, Mewtwo, or any other gone melee characters, you will be upset at 
 the fact that they do not make their Brawl debut. Do not be upset by their absense because they 
 are replaced. For example, Roy is replaced by Ike, while Mewtwo is replaced by Lucario. Two non-nintendo 
 characters, Solid Snake, the grenading weapon master, and Sonic the Hedgehog, the speedy animal, 
 make the brawl even more intense. There are also assist characters in the game. By using a white 
 capsule item, a random assist character comes out to help you out. Its kinda like a pokeball, just 
 that it is not thrown nor does it release pokemon. The assist character trophy item can summon 
 characters such as Kat and Ana from WarioWare, Shadow the Hedgehog from the Sonic Games, who is 
 unlocked, and more. You also have the option of playing in a few of the old melee stages. Pretty 
 sweet, huh? The multiplayer in this fighting game is also intense. With arenas varying in size 
 and different modes such as stock, time, coin, or even teams, the Brawl will go out of control. 
 Get a buddy and get ready to duke it out. Anyone can even use the internet to play against friends. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redboxa
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2008 4:08 am PT
Review:  Let me set this straight. This game owns. There's really nothing else to it. From the start I could 
 tell it was just a perfect Wii Iteration (+TONS MORE) of a favourite Super Smash Melee! The controls 
 felt great ( I use a GCN controller ) the graphics are superb ( Take that "next-gen consoles! ) 
 and the game-play itself is simply splendid. First off, most smash games aren't taken seriously 
 for single-player, this game fixes that. While not a fully fledged single player campaign, the 
 new Subspace mode rocks. Bored and done with that? Try going online against anyone in the world. 
 Don't have wifi? Try creating a stage or unlocking all the new characters and secrets the game 
 has to offer. The Multiplayer in this game is amazing. 4-Player smash frenzies anyone? Take your 
 favourite Nintendo (and others too!) character and duke it out with 3 of your friends. Choose from 
 classic Super Smash characters such as Mario or Link, or many new-comer's such as Snake from Konami 
 or Sonic from Sega. This game is all options. One of the coolest things about this game is the 
 new Update to the items: Final Smash. Each character has its own unique Final Smash which creates 
 chaos among all others. As the final smash is reveled on the map, all players are rushing to obtain 
 it. It's that good. There's not much else I can say about this game except that I'm hooked. Heck, 
 if you don't have a Wii, buy one. You'll love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dimension_X
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2008 1:10 am PT
Review:  What can a smash fanatic say about this glorious game..... besides its AWESOME!!! With the Dojo 
 giving everything away I figured this game would be lack luster since I knew all the secret characters 
 and stages, but I was wrong, this game has hours and hours of gameplay within it. I think I maxed 
 out my Melee "time on" counter, the statistics were insane and Melee came out in 2001 and was played 
 hardcore, picked apart and was destroyed by pros and noobs alike and even found its way into Major 
 Leauge Gaming (MLG) . 
  
  BRAWL is a combination of classic characters without all the macro-ing... wavedashing and L-canceling 
 from the Melee of old. It incorporates classic sound effects and items returning from the Original 
 smash bros. on the N64. The original nintendo sound effects for the starpower induce feelings of 
 nostalgia and stages and music are incorporated from literally hundreds of games.... there are easily 
 over 200 songs.... I just got that unlockable. Oh, and thats another thing, the unlockables are 
 so extensive and some are quite challenging that I cant wait to tackle them all.
  
  As you play... new modes become playable. Like boss battles where you fight each boss from the subspace 
 emmassary one after ther other. It plays out much like All-Star mode from Melee (which is also 
 unlockable in this game) where you retain your damage from the previous and have a screen where 
 there are 3 hearts and once you use them they are gone.
  
  With about 15+ more characters and the removal of pichu and mewtwo, this game offers a wide variety 
 in character selection. Though there are many veteran fighters returning, moves have been changed 
 and some characters that had been nerfed in Melee have their strength back in BRAWL. Newcomers 
 like Wario, Zero Suit Samus, Snake and Lucario all make for intriguing new move styles and felxibility... but 
 Ill let you play the game rather then go through each characters move list..... and why are you 
 reading this review and not playing BRAWL! it is a must have for Smash fans and people who want 
 a user-friendly fighting game with lots of playability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exiss
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 9:28 pm PT
Review:  GAME START
  
  I've never bought any video game on the day of its release. I rarely catch rides on the hype trains 
 due to my conservative nature with cash. Worse is when I do decide to follow along with the majority 
 and end up being left disappointed and wishing I had my $50 back. There is nothing worse than paying 
 up for a game that you'll master and complete in its entirety after only a week. So along comes 
 Super Smash Bros. Brawl, a game I hardly paid any attention to until one month ago. Maybe it occurred 
 to me that those memories of the original Smash and Melee were worth trusting in and taking a dive 
 for Brawl would be worthwhile in the end. 
  
  To my great satisfaction, Brawl is just the type of game that I feel good about investing in: Long-lasting. 
 There is such an immense amount to do in Brawl, wrapped within a simple yet surprisingly deep combat 
 system, that I feel that all of that time Nintendo spent designing it was well worth waiting through 
 for those excited from the start. 
  
  Act I 
  
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is the kind of game that you get wrapped up in for several hours. The gameplay 
 is solid and the controls are easy to figure out. There are 35 total characters, several of which 
 must first be unlocked. Multiple stages can be amassed through completing challenges. There is 
 a huge archive of new and classic music from Nintendo that you can obtain through accomplishing 
 various tasks in the game. Simply put, Brawl has value written all over it. This is not a game 
 that you will complete quickly, there is much to do. 
  
  The first thing that occurred to me when I turned the game on for the first time was the graphics. 
 While not nearly at 360 or PS3 levels, the Wii manages to pull off a sleek presentation that works 
 perfectly for a game like Brawl. The characters are rendered in wonderful detail while retaining 
 a very Nintendo charm. The arenas and backgrounds are equally if not more impressive. Nintendo 
 really pushed the artwork forward in Brawl and designed more stages than most will know what to 
 do with. This is excellent, as nobody wants to get used to always playing on the same stages repeatedly. 
 
  
  Brawl's presentation is amazingly dramatic, too dramatic even. While Nintendo has provided gamer's 
 with epic storylines before (i. e. Zelda) the cast lineup of happy, colorful, borderline anime characters 
 acting out a wild, dialogue-less mythology was almost sillier than I could accept. This coming 
 from one who can accept that a chubby plumber can crush monsters to death with his own body weight 
 and frequently rescues a princess from a giant, fire-breathing turtle. 
  
  As comes with drama, Brawl has been provided with unique songs from Nintendo to assist its adventurous 
 atmosphere. Choirs sing, guitars rock, and I love it. The songs are top-notch, a perfect blend 
 between the very old and refreshingly new. Each stage has its own specific songs that can play 
 during matches, and more can be added to the list as you unlock more playing the game. 
  
  Act II
  
  Most everybody knows what Super Smash Bros. is all about. For those new to the party 
 Smash Bros. is set around a very simple gameplay mechanic. After choosing one of several iconic 
 Nintendo characters you proceed to a large stage that often floats in mid-air and attack your opponents 
 with a flurry of punches, kicks, special moves, etc. When your opponent has been damaged enough, 
 you can perform a finishing blow, or Smash Attack by tapping the control stick and pressing the 
 A Button at the same time to fling your enemy off of the stage and into oblivion. 
  
  Concerning Brawl, the gameplay remains largely intact from Melee. The speed has been reduced some 
 in favor of a greater focus on mid-air combat and longer matches. Also, there is the addition of 
 the Smash Ball which can be broken by any character during a match. Breaking it will allow your 
 character to perform their own unique Final Smash, which can turn the course of a battle with one 
 blow. 
  
  There is a ridiculous amount to do in Super Smash Bros. Brawl. In between collecting all of the 
 characters, beating Classic and Adventure Mode, you will also have a long list of challenges that 
 can be completed at any time. These challenges range from breaking targets in a short amount of 
 time to defeating the game's 10 bosses on the highest difficulty to simply building your own levels 
 with the stage builder tool. There are also hundreds of various trophies and stickers to collect, 
 the latter of which can be used to power up your characters in different ways. 
  
  The Stage Builder mode allows you to do just that, create your own level. It's fairly limited when 
 you first try it, but after designing a few levels, you'll unlock more tools and objects to insert 
 into your arenas. These stages can be sent to friends or submitted to Nintendo. To send them to 
 friends you need to first obtain the unique code that comes with each copy of Brawl and trade with 
 a friend who also has the game. It would be far simpler if you weren't forced to share multiple 
 codes for each game Nintendo releases, but there doesn't seem to be a change coming any time soon. 
 
  
  Trading Brawl codes will also allow you to play in online matches against your friends. Unfortunately, 
 this is about all that you can do with the online currently. There is hardly any lag, the game 
 runs beautifully, but you can't play other people around the world very easily. In my case, I'll 
 get lucky now and then and connect with somebody for a quick match only to lose my connection with 
 Nintendo's Wi-Fi Community when I try to play again three minutes later. More often I cannot connect 
 to anybody at all and constantly lose my connection. That said, friend matches are the way to go 
 right now unless Nintendo fixes the anonymous mode soon. 
  
  ENDGAME
  
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is the best all-around game that Nintendo has released as of yet and it's 
 already showing massive popularity in sales. Everything about Brawl has been nailed near-perfectly 
 except for the online play, which the Nintendo marketed in advertisements before launch. This is 
 a bigger hindrance than one would like to think in today's gaming atmosphere, where online multiplayer 
 is the popular wave of the future. A game like Brawl thrives on multiplayer, so for the online 
 to be only half perfect is like a shot in the foot. Until Nintendo (hopefully) corrects the online 
 multiplayer issue and unleashes Brawl's full potential, the game is working at only 90% of its 
 true excellence. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilZOoLu
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2008 12:30 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl is the best game ever and on the wii. A 3-D side scrolliong game is so fun 
 its a series of games were all of your favourite nintendo characters fighting alone or along. The 
 game started on the N64 1991 it was called smash bros. The graphics were not bad at all with only 
 12 charcter to play with the game got kinda stale pretty quick. The next game that came out of the 
 same sereis super smash bros meele on the gamecube 2001. It contained an amount of 24 characters 
 12+ more than the original one. The graphics made a major improvments. The game is still played today 
 and the stages were a big slap in the face to smash  and 
 wating unit a new series of smash bros was introduced to the world. SUPER SMASH BROS BRAWL! This 
 game is on the wii, AND IS PURE AWSOMENESSSSSS! Staring some of your favourite video game charcters 
 of all time-from mario link to yoshi and donkey kong, this title is an absolute knockout from the 
 second your chosen fighters square offf with an opponet. When its time to unlesh your ULTIMATE inner 
 strenghts!
  
  ''THIS THE BRAWL TO END THEM ALL'' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bringndaheat08
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2008 11:46 pm PT
Review:  What can be said about Super Smash Brothers Brawl that isn't already known? And quite honestly, 
 if you need a review to determine if you're going to buy Brawl or not, then that's just foolish. 
 To need a review to convince yourself to buy Brawl is like saying you're going to contemplate breathing 
 air, but nevertheless here it goes.
  
  What is the core basis of Super Smash Brothers Brawl? Nintendo characters kicking the crap out 
 of each other, pretty simple right? Among the starting combatants going at it this time are classics 
 such as Mario, Donkey Kong, Link, Samus, Kirby, Fox, Pikachu, Zelda, Peach, Yoshi, Ice Climbers, 
 and Bowser. New comers to the starting roster include Diddy Kong, Pit, Meta Knight, Pokemon Trainer, 
 Ike, King Dedede, Wario, Olimar, and Lucas. Along with those there are 14 more characters to unlock, 
 so no one will be at a loss at finding a favorite character. Within the 35 playable characters 
 there are two not so secret third party characters from the likes of Konami and Sega. 
  
  Most characters all play differently, but unfortunately some characters are clones of others with 
 slight differences between them. This is only true for some of the un-lockable characters, but 
 all the starting characters are completely original with their move sets. Also, some characters 
 are two in one. Samus can lose her power suit and become Zero Suit Samus, while Zelda can transform 
 into Sheik. And in a special case, one character, the Pokemon Trainer, has control over three different 
 pokemon, Squirtle, Ivysaur, and Charizard. 
  
  Along with tons of characters, there are tons of stages as well. You have a pretty big selection 
 of stages from the get go and have a lot more to unlock. Along with new stages to unlock, you can 
 unlock a select few stages from Super Smash Bros. Melee as well.
  
  The game play is more or less the same as Melee. You beat each other senseless until the damage 
 meter on your opponent goes up to the point where a strong hit can send your opponent flying off 
 the map. You standard Brawl where you just kick the crap out of your friends will be the standard 
 way you play. This time around you can take your rivalries online and play your friends or random 
 people. The bad thing about this is Nintendo's online service is just not up to par in today's 
 internet age. We still have friend codes, there's no leader boards, no communication or anything 
 like that. But when it comes down to it, it's SSB online so you can't complain too much.
  
  Along with your standard Brawl there is now a full single player campaign entitled Subspace Emissary, 
 which was penned by the writer of Final Fantasy VII. The story is about an army invading Nintendo 
 land? Consisting of weird looking enemies to say the least. Some big time Nintendo baddies team 
 up to take out the good guys and in terms of Nintendo its pretty epic seeing all these characters 
 in such dramatic situations. The play through pretty much consists of side scrolling through a 
 level and once in a while you'll be thrown into a situation fight or a boss fight. If you don't 
 have a lot of friends to play with, this will be the main mode that you unlock all the characters 
 in.
  
  In technical aspects the game looks, sounds, and plays great. The graphics are some of the best 
 on the Wii, you can actually see texture in Mario's overalls! The orchestrated soundtrack is a 
 who's who of video game composers with tons of composers contributing to the game. And play wise, 
 well you've got options. You can play with only the wii remote held sideways which I do not recommended 
 due to awkward use of the +/- buttons, the next best is using the Wiimote and nunchuck, which isn't 
 bad but you can do better. Next you have the classic controller which works fine but it is in no 
 comparison to the Gamecube controller, which is a proven fit for Super Smash Bros and has great 
 rumble. 
  
  There are a ton of extras in the game as well. During single player mode you'll gather stickers, 
 which are exactly what they sound like. They are all of characters/items from all the games represented 
 within the game and can be used to power up your character in single player. Another thing to collect 
 within the game is trophies which are like stickers, except 3D and don't do anything for you. There 
 is a old timey arcade shooter in which you can use your coins to shoot down new trophies, it isn't 
 that great but it's a nice distraction. At any point in the game you can take snapshots of your 
 characters in order to view them later, send them to friends, or (I think) save them to an SD card 
 and view them on your computer, don't quote me on that. Lastly, there is a (while meger) stage 
 creator. While you won't be making the most technically flashy stages, you can make some pretty 
 interesting creations, upload them to WiiConnect24 and if Nintendo likes your stage, they can let 
 everyone know about it. 
  
  Overall, Super Smash Brothers brawl is an amazing game that you will be playing for however long 
 you have your Wii and maybe till the next Nintendo console if it has Wii compatibility. It is almost 
 everything you could want. Sure it would be nice to have Dr. Mario, Mewtwo, Roy, and Pichu back 
 but 3 out of 4 of those would be very similar to exisisting characters. That being said, why can't 
 all the characters have their own move set? And Nintendo, please get a better online service, is 
 leader boards too much to ask for? All those negative things aside, they are minor and shouldn't 
 deter anyone from the game which like I said, is AMAZING. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chronicgamer35
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Although if you have played melee in the past, you might think one of these statements (unless 
 you havent heard from friends who have played) "Oh im going to have to use the Wiimote and have 
 to wave it around for attacks" or "This game is going to be too hard with the wiimote". Well the 
 truth is, you can play it 4 different ways - The Classic controller, the Gamecube controller, the 
 wiimote w/o nunchuck (turn it sideways as you would with the classic games) or the wiimote with 
 the nunchuck. Either way, its one of the best games, and the most popular for wii yet. Once you 
 get your hands on it, you will love it. Although story mode went too fast for me, it might be great 
 for you. Oh, and if you don't like the music set on the stages, a good improvise of the music controlls 
 in "options" can change that to more of your tastes.... But like my statement said, it IS "Amazing" 
 and it is a great multiplayer, Wi-fi included in the game makes it even better. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giratina667
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is the 3rd entry of the Smash Bros. series, And likely one of the best games 
 to be released this year.
  
  VISUAL: Characters are extremely detailed, lighting is properly placed, and the environs are clean. Although 
 the characters still "Impale" each other. (i. e. Mario's head through Link's foot) 8.0
  
  AUDIO: Clean and varied, though some of the voice actors seemed inconsistent with their voices. 8.0
 
  
  MUSIC: Excellent for the most part. There are many tracks that have been excellently arranged, and 
 many others retain their original form. However some of the retro arrangements were terribly done. The 
 selection is massive (250+ tracks!) and a new feature called my Music will allow you to turn off 
 the tracks that you don't like, so that shouldn't be a problem.9.5/10
  
  GAMEPLAY: (Since this portion is so large I'll break it down.)
  
  What it is: Smash Bros. is 
 a 4 player fighter/platformer hybrid. The basic goal is to knock your opponent (s) off the stage 
 by any means necessary. You can use items, helpers, attacks and even the stage itself in order to 
 defeat them.
  
  Good: A simple control setup allows nearly anyone to join in. Items and helpers liven up the experience. Characters 
 are quite varied, but equally playable. KOing opponents is always satisfying. The environments are 
 fun and hectic.
  
  Bad: Items sometimes lead to unfair KO's. Some characters have fairly similar moves. Some Stage hazards 
 are irritating.
  
  MODE BREAKDOWN
  
  Adventure: The story mode, it plays much like a platformer.
  
  Good: Fast paced, challenging, plenty 
 of replay value, a lot of variety.
  
  Bad: Sadistically hard on higher difficulty settings, enemies sometimes impede more than challenge.
 
  
  Classic: An ordered romp through 12 stages.
  
  Good: Challenging, one play through is never the same as the next.
  
  Bad:1 unlockable requires 
 you to play the classic mode 39 times.
  
  All Star and Boss rush modes: Defeat all the characters or bosses with only 3 chances to heal.
 
  
  Good: Requires strategy in order to win, challenging.
  
  Bad: No chance to retry halfway through, tedious.
  
  Stadium: Includes 3 challenges, Homerun contest, Multiman 
 melee and target smash.
  
  Good: Modes are addictive and easy to learn.
  
  Bad: Save for Homerun contest, the modes can become very difficult.
  
  Collectibles: There are 
 two kinds of collectibles, stickers and trophies. Both can be displayed and looked at. They're both 
 earned through normal gameplay or through a game called the coin launcher.
  
  Good: Plenty of stickers and trophies, offer bits of informationn on game.
  
  Bad: Earning them 
 is sometimes repetitive
  
  Coin launcher: A game where you earn collectibles by shooting objects and trophies.
  
  Good: Fast 
 paced, keeps you attentive
  
  Bad: Coins (Which are necessary to play) are used quickly. (Note that coins are earned just by playing 
 matches or single player.) Trophies sometimes spawn behind waves of objects.
  
  Stage builder: Make your own stages!
  
  Good: Gives enormous amounts of replay value, interesting 
 ideas can come to life.
  
  Bad: Not enough options regarding backgrounds and genral themes. Unlockable building sets aren't 
 compatible with each other.
  
  GAMEPLAY OVERALL 9.0
  
  Total Overall:8.625
  
  It's a great game that you should at least try, though if you're a Perfectionist fanatic, this one 
 will make you pull your hair out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunkInATrunk
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is the most amazing game i have ever played in my life! So many game types make the game 
 seem to be so big. The hidden features are always fun to unlock too. Overall Brawl is an amazing 
 game. Weill i still need 100 hundred words in this review. How about Super smash bros. brawl rules 
 Super smash bros. brawl rules Super smash bros. brawl rules Super smash bros. brawl rules Super 
 smash bros. brawl rules Super smash bros. brawl rules Super smash bros. brawl rules Super smash 
 bros. brawl rules Super smash bros. brawl rules Super smash bros. brawl rules Super smash bros. 
 brawl rules Super smash bros. brawl rules Super smash bros. brawl rules Super smash bros. brawl 
 rules Super smash bros. brawl rules. Best game ever Super smash bros. brawl rules Super smash bros. 
 brawl rules Super smash bros. brawl rules Super smash bros. brawl rules 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colincancer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  The famed Super Smash Bros. series returns for the third time, this time on the wii. The gameplay 
 will be familiar to you if you played either of the other two games in the series: Brawl is a fighter 
 where you rack up damage to other players, but instead of death by damage, players only die in 
 Brawl when knocked off the stage. It is an idea that has yet to be copied by other fighters, but 
 that doesn't mean that Brawl is a bad game. In fact, it is far from it.
  
  Brawl features 35 fighters, more than any of the other games in the series. However, I do have 
 to say that some are not as welcome as others. Some additions, such as meta knight and Pit, are 
 great, while others, like Captain Olimar and ROB could have been replaced by worthier characters.
 
  
  However, Nintendo did a very good job balancing the character skills. Metaknight, for example, 
 is very fast and can deal damage quickly, but he lacks a move that can finish an opponent. Ike 
 on the other hand, is capable of finishing an opponent at low damage, but he is slow. While this 
 works well, some characters are undoubtedly better than others, and everyone will have a favorite. 
 While I prefer Metaknight, my sister plays as Marth, and one of my friends as DeDeDe. 
  
  The gameplay itself seems very watered down from that of Melee. Ledge grabbing is now automatic 
 and will happen if the character gets even remotely close to platforms. Gravity seems lighter and 
 the characters seem to float in midair, which lends itself to aerial battles but annoys me, because 
 I have been used to the Melee feel for so long. This move seems to make it so that players are 
 more inclined to aerial battles, but it weakens characters with weak midair moves. Controversial 
 techniques such as wavedashing are now also impossible in the game, which some may welcome but 
 I thought that it and other techniques made the game deeper. 
  
  The other two games in the series had very good stages, and most of them could be played with the 
 maximum of four characters or the minimum of two. Brawl however, lacks a good stage selection that 
 is plagued by random occurences that are out of players' control. For example, on the Bridge of 
 Eldin a section of the stage will randomly blow up and be replaced. While it doesn't seem like 
 such a big deal, the destruction of the stage can have a lasting effect on the match. Therefore, 
 I prefer plain stages such as Battlefield or Final Destination, which are simple platforms.
  
  Other new ideas, such as the smash ball, which grants is wielder a powerful FInal Smash, are 
 also unwelcome. These seem like fun at first, but only if you have them, since using it will most 
 likely result in the death of the other players on the map. Having something so unbalanced is not 
 something that I enjoy in a game.
  
  The new single player mode, the Subspace Emissary, attempts to bring something that the other games 
 didn; t: a good single player mode. I have to say that the Emissary, a series of battles and platforming 
 stages, was put together very well with a good storyline for a fighter, but Brawl's gameplay mechanics 
 don't lend itself well to a platforming game.
  
  The graphics in Brawl are excellent for the wii. Details such as the texture on Mario's overalls 
 are very well drawn, and when comparing the Melee remakes to the originals on the Gamecube, Brawl 
 is the clear winner. However, like most games on the wii, don't expect the graphics to hold up 
 to games on the xbox like Bioshock and Rainbow Six Vegas: 2.
  
  Brawl also adds online play to the series. However, it is very hard to get into a match where there 
 is no lag at all, probably due to the fact that Nintendo has little experiance with online play. 
 Therefore, online play is virtually unplayable at the time of this review, which is disappointing.
 
  
  Even though the game has its flaws, I do highly recommend it, as it is both fun by yourself, but 
 even more fun when playing with friends. The characters are balanced for the most part and lend 
 themselves to different playstyles. the graphics are excellent for the wii, and ultimately, fighting 
 with your friends is just plain fun. However, if you are looking for a beautiful game with great 
 online play, Brawl isn't for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigas_Yuu
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Unfortunately all too familiar. I will be using Gamespot's old school rating system for this one. 
 (i. e. if framerate is bad I will take points off "graphics") 
  
  Super Smash Brothers strongest point in the game has been made severely handicapped by Nintendo's 
 lack of support. It is so bad, infact that Nintendo has a section dedicated to it http://www. nintendo. com/consumer/systems/wii/en_na/ts/gameSSBB. jsp
 
  
  After finally getting Smash Brothers to detect the USB Wi-fi adapter (since it was having trouble 
 before when games like Pokemon had no problem) and display my personal friend code, it did not 
 allow for me to join someone elses open Brawl. I proceeded to "Brawl with anyone" and luckily it 
 worked, beginning at a choppy twenty frames per second. I had full bars on my Wi-fi adapter and 
 did not understand the problem. No firewall, no interference of any sort.
  
  This game has been afflicted with Two World's syndrome. 
  
  Playing another Brawl with anyone 
 game, it was a lot less laggy however at times the game would freeze up and someone would go flying 
 off the screen by the time it returned to normal speed. For waiting so long it seems Nintendo has 
 failed.
  
  Perhaps I should wait for Nintendo to release a fix before giving this review, but GS has not given 
 such liberty so it wouldn't make sense here to stop. 
  
  Brawl's graphics even with a component cable (which only goes to 480p) look absolutely terrible. 
 I am puzzled on how Nintendo's screens look like they have been upscaled to display a sharper picture. 
 Things like this take away from the "next-gen" feeling of a safe investment. 
  
  The adventure mode started off extremely slow, but picked up and had very fulfilling cutscenes. 
 **Spoiler** It was particularly cool when Fox came with his Arwing and unloaded on the Halberd, 
 narrowly missing Peach and Sheik. I have to give credit towards the Adventure mode which gave me 
 a familiar "Kingdom Hearts" feeling where characters you would never expect to interact, do infact 
 interact with each other.
  
  However I still cannot have fun with this game without having to go to someone's house since the 
 online is completely broken. 7.5 Not intending to annoy or offend anyone.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkrush000
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  The third game of the Super Smash Bros series is finally here. The original Super Smash Bros wasn't 
 fantastic, but now, Brawl is one of the most anticipated games of all time!
  
  There's a huge amount of things to do: collect trophies, play online, try the new Subspace Emissary 
 mode (which is a little too simple, though) , create some stages (this new feature is a neat idea, 
 but there aren't many pieces, so you won't be able to create complex stages) , or play a good ol' 
 match of SSB.
  
  The graphics are just gorgeous! The details from both characters and stages are really impressive. 
 Sure, it isn't as good as SMG, but it will satisfy many fans of SSB.
  
  Ah.... the music... in my opinion it's the best soundtrack of all games to date!
  There is a 
 great selection of musics and musicians. There is also an option called "My music" , where you 
 can select how often the musics will play in a stage.
  
  Many people were wondering which control scheme was the best one. I don't own a Gamecube controller, 
 so I didn't tested it out. I pesonally like the Wii Remote + Nunchuk and the Classic controller 
 schemes. I think that the Wii Remote scheme was akward to use, because the Wii Remote alone has 
 just a few buttons.
  
  Conclusion: YOU HAVE TO PLAY BRAWL!!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: link_1994
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Holy wow! This game is a amazing, not only are the graphics impresive but, the gameplay is out 
 of this world, what from being able to perform final smashes whenever you obtain a smash ball during 
 a brawl, the option to create and share maps with other people or how about being able to replay 
 your favorite battle, the list goes on and on. Now it's time to start my grand review of Super 
 Smash Bros. Brawl! 
  
  Story: I was never a fan of side-scrollers but, this game was an exception, there are so many things 
 you can collect during levels, thus increasing the replayability value. However, there were a few 
 stages the story could have done without such as the stages during the research facility level. 
 
  Although, the cutscenes are amazing, what also makes this amazing is the fact that it can tell 
 a story without words and you can still understand what's going on. 
  
  There is also a classic mode you can play which is really just random activities which eventually 
 lead to the grand boss master hand. 
  
  Graphics: 
  
  They truly prove that the Wii can live up to it's generation, also proving that even cartoony like 
 video games can have mind blowing graphics.
  
  Gameplay: 
  
  Whoo boy, I'm telling you this game will have you hooked withing 2 or 3 brawls, there 35 unique 
 charecters each with their own unique move set with an exception for a certain 3 charecters that 
 I won't mention. Also the ablity to use random items such as throwing pokeballs which when thrown 
 release a powerful creature called a pokemon which will then attack the enemy player. Assitant 
 trophys are also like pokeballs. I could just go on and on about these random items. However two 
 things that are a bit disapointing are the not so impresie online capabilities and not being able 
 to share custom made levels online. 
  
  Overall: If you want a game with all your favorite Nintendo charecters and really original fighting 
 gameplay with great music Brawl will be the game just for you. And right it seems Brawl is the 
 game for a lot of gamers.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Overrated_Hero
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Smash Bros. has been always known for simple game style and addicting multiplayer it's been more 
 than 6 years since we have heard of the series with a bigger roaster, more stages and a longer 
 adventure plus stack up a boat load of options that we can't even mention all of them in this review 
 Brawl is the biggest Brawl to date. 
  
  Smash Bros. has been letting you fight around as character's of the Nintendo franchise exclude 
 two new third party characters this game is no different, this time with the biggest roster up 
 to date with a total of 35 characters and 41 stages. Although this all might seem fun clone characters 
 have returned but not like Melee there have been some slight changes in there power and there movement. 
 Solo Mode is consisted of the traditional Classic mode, Event matches which now support a second 
 player, the returning stadium mode, training, and the oh so hyped Sub Space Emissary.
  
  Sub Space Emissary played out like a story mode featuring all your Nintendo stars and new to the 
 league Solid Snake and Sonic. Sub Space is also similar to Kirby Super Star on the Super Nintendo 
 which would give you a map and a circle of each stage an option to replay those levels. From what 
 you would expect the game moves in a side scrolling fashion. Unlike the short lived adventure mode, 
 Sub Space is close to 9 hours long depending on what difficulty you play on. Although this new 
 adventure isn't without its flaws. Even though the adventure is long the some stages should have 
 been without and some feel like the same old one over and over again just to make you put more 
 hours until the end of the story which is un-necessary and forgetful but you shouldn't expect much 
 but still is a good touch. Overall Sub Space Emissary is a disappointment for some it is something 
 that has a good idea and should be worked some more.
  
  Even though Smash Bros. isn't known for its single player the multiplayer is back and better than 
 ever. You'll be equipped with a lot of new stages and unique characters (despite some clones) to 
 brawl with as you play, stages a bigger and better than ever with 31 new and 10 from the past Melee 
 game. Multiplayer in Brawl there's not much ways to say it either than this is the closest in perfect 
 from multiplayer perspective, throw in a stage builder and you're set to fight. The Smash Ball 
 brings a lot of new things to the table with allowing you to make a destructive blow to your enemies 
 since there's only one in a while everyone's going to be going for it and is a great new addition 
 as well as other new items. 
  
  New to Brawl is the long awaited Online Mode which lets you play with anyone or with your friends 
 by punching there Friend Code. In the Anyone option you are given a few options of Basic Brawl, 
 Team Battle or be a Spectator. In Basic Brawl you will be playing a match of two minutes with random 
 people or if have a friend to play with feel free to beat up the Sand Bag as you wait. In Team 
 Brawl is where you are paired up with a random player and you will battle in a 2 on 2 match. If 
 you want to relax you can become a spectator and watch other people play matches and you can gamble 
 coins on whom you think will win. Fun as it may seem this game could have really benefited from 
 a head set device even though you are aloud comments it still feels like you're facing a computer. 
 
  
  Brawl is a game to hide no extras and they have a whole wagon full. New collectables are Stickers 
 where you can use some to power up your guys in Sub Space and the returning trophies which most 
 of them are new. Also new to the collectables plate is a Masterpiece mode where you could play 
 demos of Virtual Console games for a brief time, after that you can go over your challenges list 
 and look to see if you have everything else, but don't worry this will take a long time to achieve 
 all these surprises. 
  
  Presentation in Brawl is also one of the games strong points, CG animated Cut Scenes do a great 
 in Sub Space Emissary and are good in detail. Although the game isn't as rich in detail as Mario 
 Galaxy or in art, this game is one of the best looking Wii games on the market even if there are 
 some loading problems. 
  
  Music in Brawl is by far one of the best soundtracks in video game history; the game has revived 
 old tracks from previous games and recent ones, Brawls soundtrack shows that it has a lot of effort 
 into it and with over 200 pieces of music you cannot go wrong, they even let you change how much 
 you hear a certain track in a stage. 
  
  Brawl overall is a great game which should be on everyone's list, it's fun for everyone, great 
 at parties or get together. Brawl is a game that comes once in a dozen and does not deserve to 
 be missed if you liked the past Smash Bros. this is a game sent from heaven for you if you're into 
 fighters this game is great or even if you want to rent it you will still have fun. Brawl is the 
 best in the Super Smash Bros. series and fan or not you need to check this one out. Brawl is a 
 game that does a lot of things right and a few things wrong, minus a few flaws that are easily 
 looked over you are bound to have a great time from months, even years to come. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiamondDusk
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  What to Say about Super Smash Bros. Brawl? That's it's perfect in almost every way? It's the best 
 in the series? That it's revolutionary? How about all of the above? Yeah that seems to fit just 
 right.
  
  Well to describe Super Smash Bros. Brawl in a nutshell would be... Random Nintendo Characters pummeling 
 each other on random Nintendo location. That's basically it. But it's much more fun than that sounds. 
 With 41 Stages, 35 Chracters (from returning veterans to newcomers) and nearly endless ways to 
 have a match you'll be having Fun with Brawl for a long time to come.
  
  Gameplay: I'd hav e to say it's perfect. No other game has 4 different play stlyes that you can 
 change at will. From the Wii Remote on it's side, to The Wii Remote and Nunchuck and even the Classic 
 Controller and Gamecube controller you'd have to be lying if you said you couldn't find a could 
 way to play. 
  Beside Control Wise Brawl has alot of game modes that you alone can play or you can invite frineds 
 over. From the Adventure Mode to a Classic Brawl and to WiFi.
  
  Graphics: Great. Nothing else to eally say besides that the Graphics ae well done.
  
  Other: 
 The game sounds great, and has the biggest replay value. 
  
  In the End Brawl is one of those Rare Gems that NO ONE must pass up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendo2Brawl
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  There is almost no way that I can describe this game. It has everything that a nintendo would want 
 stage bulider, a huge roster, many awsome stages, the incredible adventure mode and final smashes. 
 When you start in the adventure mode you start out as mario fighting kirby then the subspace comes 
 along after the fight and that is where the real adventure mode starts. Then as progress your party, 
 which grows by getting the charters and beating bosses, you get to play as them in the Brawl. Wifi, 
 which i forgot to mention earler, is awsome. You can selct "with anyone" and you get to play aganist 
 anyone in the world (names aren't shown) or you can do it with friends which you battle with (um...) 
 friends. The charters are so amazing when they where put in motion and the graphics are insane. 
 If I had to buy only one game for my Wii this would be my game. If you are looking for a good game 
 for Wii then this is one of the consoles best and one on nintendo's best games ever so I recommened 
 this game for any die-hard fan of nintendo. So i give this game a 11 out of 10! P. S. actually I 
 give it a 20 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alfredo_Sauce
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  This is like I said amazing. There is so many options and character choice you can go for. The 
 character's is are awesome. They have almost every popular nintendo character you can think of. 
 They also have a couple of people who aren't from nintendo but had a game on the nintendo system. 
 Like for example Solid Snake (Metal Gear Solid Series) and Sonic (Sonic series) . Their not nintendo 
 based characters but had games on the nintendo system. But back to the character selection, their 
 is many good characters to choose from. I sort of follow MLG Smash so I kind of know who's good 
 from who, but playing every character is fun. You should try everyone to see what fits you. And 
 if you are wondering I use Solid Snake. Now to the Story mode. The Story mode is awesome. Its called 
 the Sub Space Emissary. Just to tell you its longer than you think. It took me about 7 hours to 
 finish. I don't want to spoil anything to anyone who hasn't gotten the chance to play it but its 
 tuns of fun and take your time with it. The multiplayer is still fun. Playing with all your friends 
 is awesome. You can play any type of way. You can have giant melee on at the same time have speed 
 melee on. There is lots of options you can do. One of the fun things in this game is the Final 
 Smashes, I usually dont play with it on cause I like to go MLG rules. There so much. Each one is 
 cool in there own way. Heres a couple. Sonic turns into Super Sonic, Browser turns into Gigga Browser, 
 Solid Snake hops on to a helicopter and you shoot grenades from a grenade lancher on to the stage. 
 Their is tuns of fun you can do. They still have the hundred man melee, and breaking the targets. 
 Another thing they added but you can now do with a friend is home run contest. Which consist of 
 you hitting a sand bag getting damage and hitting it with a home run bat and to see how far of 
 a distance you can get it to go. They still have classic mode. Which is quite the same as the other 
 Smashes. Oh I almost forgot they have these new items which I guess you can say can be very similar 
 to the Poke-Balls but their called assist trophies. Their trophies you pick up during battle and 
 they come to life and help you. I'm gonna talk about the characters a little more because I feel 
 like I only touched a little bit on that. Well all the same characters from the others are also 
 in this one but there is a few that didn't make the cut. Those Characters consist of Roy, Mewtwo, 
 and Pichu. I don't know why maybe cause they suck (sorry to all the Roy, Mewtwo, and Pichu fans) . 
 Their is tuns of new characters. Heres a couple of em Solid Snake (Metal Gear Solid Series) , Sonic 
 (Sonic Series) , King DeDeDe (Kirby Series) , Meta Knight (Kirby Series) , Captain Olimar (Pikmon 
 Series) , Poke-Mon Trainer (Poke-Mon Series) , and Wolf (Star Fox Series) those are the bit of the 
 character there is still some more. Another cool thing is the stages. They have some pretty cool 
 stages that are well designed. And whats really cool in brawl is you can design your own levels. 
 And what is also is cool is now you can just take pictures in battle while in pause, insted of 
 using camera mode in melee. Here is the one bad thing I will say about this game is the online. 
 I wish they could've put more time into designing the online. If you want to play random people 
 online you can online do 2 minute matches on with all the items on. I rather do stock matches and 
 you should be able to do any match you want make your own rooms have random people join or something. 
 If you want to play with your friends you just have to give them your brawl code. Brawl codes I 
 think are sort of dumb because their longer than your phone number and if you go out and someone 
 ask you to play you psh your not going to remember your code so you have to go to your house go 
 on Brawl online and get your brawl code and right it down but if I guess if you memorize it than 
 I guess its not bad. But if you play with your friends thats when you can change what you want 
 to do. You can do stock matches or anything you guys are in the mood for. You guys can also do 
 home run contest with each other online. Another thing that blows about the online is there is 
 no mic. That is so stupid. Why wouldn't you make a mic for Brawl. They said their not going to 
 have that in the future so you can't really get your hopes up for it. So you might have to find 
 a way to talk to your friends to see whats up like using your phone or ventrillo or AIM. But all 
 and all this game is still great and amazing. This is soooo much a buy. And I would give it a perfect 
 score but the online pushed it down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamma_0
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  Let's cut this short. What's good is 35 characters, tons of stages, the ability to make stages, 
 download them and upload them, have all these new modes... the only way Brawl could be better is 
 if we had multiplayer. "With Anyone" only works in Spectator, otherwise no one gets in and you 
 you get disconnected. However, you won't miss it much; the standard CPU battles have more customization, 
 you can play with friends, and since no identity or ranking is in With Anyone, you might as well 
 battle the CPUs. With Friends works great; although, the ability to play custom stages online would 
 be nice. You can send practically your LIFE to your friends.
  The game is great. Oh, and if you're really desperate to play online, add random people to your 
 friend's list and brawl them. You have so many slots for friends that you could even leave them 
 on the list.
  We all want the Wii headset, but we're fine without it, too.
  bottom line is, the game is better than we thought. and those things we wanted that never got in? 
 Remember, it's only a matter of time before you take the brawl onto the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerDude3282
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  This game could in all honesty be my favorite game of all time, with the many modes, characters, 
 awesome gameplay, engrossing graphics, and etc.
  
  This is the best out of all the Smash games, Sakurai is a total mastermind and a total genus, Ninty 
 has proven how much quality their games contain with the release of Brawl, When you think of Brawl 
 you think of quality, I honestly cannot get this game off of my mind, this game is one of the few 
 games that has been able to live up to its hype, this game proves why everyone should own a Wii
 
  
  This is for sure my favorite fighing game of all time and possibly my favorite game of all time!!!! 
 I just can't get enough of it!!! Theres something for everyone in this game with multiple modes 
 tons of unlockables, diverse control modes, and everything you can ever dream of!!!!
  
  This only proves even more how 1337 the Wii is (I own other consoles too)
  
  This game is extremely 
 addicting and sure to keep me busy for a long time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dstraats
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  The moment I started playing this game i was hooked. There was almost nothing wrong with it. I'll 
 jump right into my only disappointment. No camera mode. Yes you can take pictures in game when 
 something cool happens but you won't know if that cool thing is coming. So you most likely will 
 miss it anyway. Yes it has replays that you can save. But you can only save 3 minute games. And 
 the replay isn't very good. Meaning, there is no video control. You cannot control the camera however 
 you want and rewind and slow down parts like in halo 3. But hey, those online is the only downside. 
 I'm not saying I'm disappointed with the game though. No. This game gives me hours of enjoyment. 
 It's probably the best waste of time ever. For example, I got an award for playing 50 hours of 
 brawls 3 days after I got it. So I looked back and saw how much fun i was really having. Every 
 one of those 50 hours was a GOOOOD waste! If you liked any other super smash, this one will for 
 sure not disappoint you. Tons of game modes, tons of characters and tons of surprises. Defiantly 
 one of the best birthday presents ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: souljaboy_101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  this game was ok , the single player was good but it was kinda long , and it was a pain in the 
 *** ,lol , in this game there are like 40 charcter and like 30 maps , you can also mack youer on 
 map , but you don thave a lot of stuff to chose from , the multiiplayer was the best about this 
 game , its the best party game on the wii , the online multiplayer was ok but alot of players play 
 on its and its takes some time to get in a match , this game was ok and i give it a 9.5 peace
 
  
   ...    ..... . . . . . . .. . .................. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. . . . . . . . . .. .. . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . .. .. . . . . . 
 .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . .. . . .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bamfer3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 6:14 am PT
Review:  After 7 years of waiting, brawl has finally come! And with all the dissappointing delays, i think 
 that they were all worth it as SSBB has blown my mind. 
  
  Graphics: 9
  Graphics are good especially in the Subspace Emissary cutscenes, stages are greatly detailed
 
  
  Gameplay: 9
  SAme concept as before, beat-em-up, use items and knock off the stage. With the addition of newer 
 items and a final smash, this makes the game even sweeter.
  
  Story: 10
  The subspace emissary mode may add from 6-7 additional hours of gameplay as it tells the story 
 of how all the characters come together to save the world. This is also available in co-op which 
 was a great addition.
  
  Online/Multiplayer: 10
  The online option is great. Players can jump into a game any time without lag making SSBB a great 
 package since it has a great online option
  
  Extras/Replay: 10
  Of course, all SSB games have great replayability but with SSBB, there's no end to customization-some 
 features like stage-building, playing classic NES/N64 games and other 1 player modes, the number 
 of hours you can spend on this game are endless!
  
  Overall: 9.5
  Haven't seen such a great nintendo multiplayer game in a while. You should definetly get this one
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: just_a_gamer152
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2008 12:39 am PT
Review:  Super smash bros. has been an amazing series of games thus far. Brawl is no exception. It is simply 
 the best game in the series. Some people say that it doesn't live up to the hype. But the last 
 time I checked, hype is not a defining factor of video games.
  
  
  Let's start off with the graphics. This particular area seems to have caught the attention of other 
 reviewers, some saying that it is just a refined version of melee. Others complain that it only 
 runs in 480p. Firstly, you cannot fault a game for the graphical limitations of the system it runs 
 on. Brawl is the best looking game to come out for the wii yet. The detail of the characters is 
 immensly improved from melee.
  
  
  On to gameplay, this game is one of the most fun games I have ever played. It runs smoothly and 
 the controls are excellent in my opinion. The fact that you can choose your control type is a plus, 
 and the fact that you can customize each one to fit your name is a great feature. The gameplay 
 is highly addictive. You can play for hours without realizing it. The characters seem incredibly 
 balanced, at least for now. The online play is aggrovating at best for me. I will admit that my 
 internet connection is horrendously slow, and all of the other online games that I have tried have 
 given me the same problems. The selection of unique characters is a plus as well. Add that in with 
 the sheer amount of unlockable content and you have an amazing game. The only bad thing is the 
 subspace emissary mode. I personally hate platformers in general and if you're just going to slap 
 fighter controls on there, then you can count me out. Luckily, there is absolutely no need to play 
 this mode. You can unlock every character, stage, sticker, trophy, and song just by brawling. If 
 you're absolutely desperate to get all of the cutscenes and the whole story, then you can just 
 go to youtube like everybody else. Sheesh. Another great thing which seems to have been kind of 
 overlooked is the stage builder mode. The common theme is that it is not enough to seperate brawl 
 form melee. But I think that it adds a more personal experience to the game. I personally make 
 stages to learn to fight in certain situations. Also, the new items such as the assist trophies 
 and final smashes add a kind of frantic element ton to the game that makes it impossible not to 
 enjoy. 
  
  
  As for audio, this game has one of the best soundtracks I've heard in a game and the sound effects 
 are very good as well. No problems with it at all. And the fact that you can add these songs on 
 to a built stage once you've unlocked them is great.
  
  And as far as "will this game last?", I think that with this game being such an improvement over 
 melee, and the fact that melee was being played until the release of brawl. It's sfae to say that 
 brawl will be played for years to come.
  
  So, with a few minor things that could've been fixed, but a majorly improved gameplay element, 
 better graphics, and an amazing soundtrack. I give this game a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cuul1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2008 11:10 pm PT
Review:  This game delivers in exactly what the fans want. Me, being a fan of super smash brothers and many 
 other Nintendo games love this game! The graphics are impressive for the Wii, and there are tons 
 of things to accomplish within the game. The adventure mode was fun at first but later got very 
 repetitive and just down right frustrating towards the end. But the videos in between were fun 
 and a joy to watch.
  This is the first Super Smash Bros. to introduce online play. At first I was very skeptical of 
 how it would play out, but to my surprise it was very fluid and fun. The main complaint is that 
 it's hard to impossible to communicate with friends. It's also impossible to communicate with anyone 
 period or make friends. But if you want some fast paced online action you can get your fix.
  One of the aspects of this game that I enjoy the most is the soundtrack. The soundtrack consists 
 of many classic songs going from the original Nintendo to the new classics on the Wii. It contains 
 a great library of classic songs and new remixes of some oldies.
  Overall, the game is very fun to play and you can waste a lot of time with it. If you love super 
 smash bros. then this game is especially for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shad0ki11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 11:02 pm PT
Review:  (Okay, I'm a big fan of the Super Smash Brothers series, more specifically Super Smash Brothers 
 Melee. I'm not a first-timer for the SSB series.)
  
  -The Solo Experience-
  
  The adventure mode, the Subspace Emissary, is much more fleshed out than the adventure mode in 
 SSBM. True, the focus of the game isn't on the adventure mode, but I kinda like how the story was 
 told. Most of the cutscenes were great. For being a game that is all about the multiplayer experience, 
 the campaign/adventure mode isn't all that bad. Just don't expect the Subspace Emissary to be worlds 
 better than the SSBM adventure mode just because it actually has a story. It takes roughly eight 
 hours to complete and I feel that it should be shorter, but hey, it's much more entertaining than 
 the SSBM adventure mode and that's a big plus. 
  
  The Subspace Emissary also has a Co-Op mode for those of you who hadn't been checking Brawl's updates 
 before it's release. I feel that the Co-Op makes the adventure mode in this game much better as 
 well. However, when player one dies, a "life" is lost and player two can't continue. Also, the 
 Co-Op platforming is very similar to that of the Co-op/2 player mode in the Kirby games; when Player 
 Two strays too far away from Player One, the Player Two is transported back to where Player One 
 is standing. I feel that was convenient move so the camera doesn't need to zoom out like it does 
 in the Multiplayer "Brawl" mode.
  
  The classic mode is self explanatory. You just play through a series of fights. No cutscenes or 
 anything. I noticed that classic mode seems to take longer this time around. Classic mode is also 
 more randomized in Super Smash Brothers Brawl. Plus, right before facing the Master Hand, you will 
 be fighting three other computer players. It's slightly more challenging than the classic mode 
 in SSBM, but that's a plus. I felt that the classic mode in SSBM was really repetitive. The only 
 thing that makes up for the repetitive-ness of it was the fact that it's more randomized. Also 
 more characters means the more times you'll have to go through classic mode if you aim to conquer 
 the game.
  
  All other modes are just worth playing. I highly recommend using the training mode. Use it to your 
 advantage. You can change the difficulty level of the computer player whenever you desire a challenge 
 that may be more or less difficult than fighting human opponents.
  
  
  -The Multiplayer Experience-
  
  This is the part of the game that everyone loves, the multiplayer. 
 Multiplayer "Brawl" mode allows you to, well, fight other people. If you have no one to play with, 
 you can use computer players. Multiplayer mode has a plethora of options to choose from and/ or 
 modify. There are more options in SSBB than SSBM of course. More is better.
  
  I have noticed upon switching from SSBM to SSBB is that the frame rate is much smoother and many 
 of the characters abilities have changed. Some of the characters have had their strength reduced 
 from SSBM. All of the characters have a slower running speed than they did when they starred in 
 SSBM. It might take a little bit to get used to when you first start playing. For example, I enjoyed 
 using aerial attacks with the character Marth in SSBM, but in SSBB they shortened the reach of 
 his sword and he doesn't stay airborne as long he used to. I am slightly disappointed, but he still 
 has the same moves, so that works fine for me. 
  
  There are many characters to choose from. All of them have their pros and cons. They all follow 
 the basic rule for most games with fighting characters of any kind: Heavy characters are slow, 
 but strong; Lighter characters are quicker, but weak in comparison to the heavy characters. Keep 
 that rule in mind so you can time your attacks effectively ;)
  
  Did I mention that there's online gameplay? No? Really?! Okay, here it goes...
  
  
  Here's 
 a feature that is a gigantic leap from the multiplayer matches in SSBM: Online mode. You are able 
 to fight with random opponents who remain anonymous or you can fight with friends from a friend 
 list that you compiled by entering your friends' friend codes ( weird sentence :P ) . Or you can 
 do an online co-op of the multi-man melee, target smash, or home-run contest. The only irritating 
 part of online brawls that I've found is that some people will show up in the waiting room, then 
 leave. That's a nuisance especially If I want to do a 1-on-1 match and the person leaves, so the 
 game automatically replaces the person I was going to fight, then adds 2 computer players that 
 just get in the way between me and my human opponent. Overall it's very satisfying in comparison 
 to SSBM, which did not have an online mode implemented. You may never have to Brawl with computer 
 players again :D
  
  One other note: The Multiplayer is VERY addictive (as expected)
  
  
  -Other Stuff- (As if the wall of the text above wasn't big enough! Huzzah!) 
  
  The frame 
 rate in Super Smash Brothers Brawl is much smoother and it might take time to get used to if you're 
 just "upgrading" from Super Smash Brothers Melee. The higher frame rate makes the visuals stand 
 out better.
  
  The visuals are considerably better than it's predecessor. All characters are rendered with great 
 detail and all the stages are well-made and come to life as you're playing them. Some stages are 
 better designed than others. A past favorite, Final Destination, has made it's way into Brawl. 
 The platform you fight on is a bit smaller this time, but the moving background is mesmerizing 
 almost to the point of distraction. It's all good. You won't be dissappointed.
  
  If the geat amount and quality of stages presented to you at the start aren't enough for you, you 
 can create your own stage. The stage builder is very simple, but hey, SSBM didn't have one, so 
 what's there to lose? You'll have a lot of fun creating stages. 
  
  Not only is the music brilliantly compiled, but you can choose what songs you hear in specific 
 stages. All BGM songs are from Nintendo games (except for a few) and are very nostalgic. It's very 
 impressive.
  
  -Final Thoughts- (Wow, this is almost over. If you've read this far, that means that you've climbed 
 this metaphorical wall of text. At this point, if you don't have any equipment to get you're way 
 down, then jumping or letting go means certain death.)
  
  *Ahem!*
  
  Overall, if you are a fan of fighting games or just SSBM, this game is perfect. This is one of 
 the few games that will give you more bang for your buck. I don't really see a reason why this 
 game isn't worth your money. If you are new to the gaming scene I suggest you rent this game before 
 purchasing it. In fact, even if you are a part of the gaming community, I think it would be wise 
 to rent this game before buying it just in case. 
  
  I HIGHLY recommend this title though.
  
  Overall score: 9.9 out of 10 (I'm not allowed to give 
 it anything inbetween a 9.5 and 10, but I stand my ground)
  
  Thank you for reading!
  
  (Please pardon any grammar mistakes or spelling errors.)
  
  :D
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hungry_luma64
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Well its been a couple years and the sequel for SSB is finally here! Duhh! Well actually not really 
 because melee was the real sequel to the series. So respect N64! Anyways This game was mega awsome!!!! 
 I really mean it too. It was a masterpeice!!!!!! If you dont have this game...... THAT SUX FOR YOU!!!! 
 I remember when I first heard about this game. I couldn't wait. But then when it was around the 
 time they kept on delaying the release date! WTF!??!??!??! I was mad. they did it a couple more 
 times too....... OMFG!!!! But whatever. Now about the game..... Awsome! So many things to do, great 
 charaters, awsome story mode (SSE) , wifi........ uhh hold on. I don't like wifi really. 1. because 
 it doesnt show other peoples names in regular matches 2. because it doesnt show your record (so 
 that means losers like my cousins can hide their sucky records) 3. there are so many problems when 
 your battling which makes wifi unstable. And there are so many other features in this game that 
 make it awsome! But SSE (Subspace Emissary) is awsomist! They tied every single character in the 
 game perfectly! I mean everything made sense! Just plain awsome! GREAT idea with that. I only mentioned 
 about half of this game but its awsome. I didn't mention some of those things because I dont feel 
 like it...... (I have a life) thats how many features there are. A lot. So to me this game definetly 
 deserves a 10.0! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fred1712
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing, "worth the wait". There is a variety of options and they are all very fun. 
 There is Subspace emissary, classic mode, and alot of other modes. There is even online, where 
 you can play with your friends or anybody whos online. The graphics are amazing, especially on 
 the cutscenes in the subspace emissary. There are plenty of characters and plenty of levels to 
 brawl on. The game is up to four players and is best when you are playing with someone, unless 
 you are playing the story mode. The game also has newcomers like pit, ike, and meta knight, and 
 many more. This game will keep you playing for a long time. There are also four controller schemes: 
 Gamecube controller, classic controller, holding the wiimote sideways and the wiimote and nunchuck, 
 the gamecube controller is most recommended. This game is even on Major leauge gaming now. So if 
 your tired of your 360 games and your craving a good beat em' up fighting game for wii, this game 
 is the one to play. 
  
  Sound/music 9.5 
  
  Graphics 9.4 
  
  Gameplay 9.6 
  
  overall: 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  I'm not just rating this game a 10 perfect because of the huge hype it recieved but because I believe 
 it's one of the games that deserves it.
  
  The massive load of content on Super Smash Bros. Brawl is outstanding. It has every character you 
 wanted in the game along with every level you wanted. (I may of wanted Banjo Kazooie but thats 
 Rare so never mind.)
  
  There is never a moment where I turn on the game and don't know what to do and get bored within 
 an hour. I have played this game for 5 hours straight at times. It's the game I waited for, for 
 7 years ever since Melee came out.
  
  There is really no point in ever playing Melee again. Brawl has everything it had and much much 
 more. (yes even the old characters and levels) but lets get down to gameplay.
  
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  The gameplay works great. And the controls are more simple then you could possibly 
 imagine for the wii-mote and numbchuck. But yet even with it being so simple its also really fun 
 and addictive. I love everything about this game. Every characters has his'her own unique moves 
 and special moves.
  
  
  SUBSPACE EMISSARY:
  
  I must admit the story isn't really that great on the Subspace Emissary but it's just plain fun 
 to see all your favourite Nintendo characters working together against a greater evil. And the 
 levels are also really fun. You can't miss out on the Subspace Emissary.
  
  
  MULTIPLAYER ONLINE AND OFF:
  
  Multiplayer is the greatest part of this game. which everyone 
 would of known by playing the previous games. You can choose from tons of different modes and items 
 and levels. Theres so many to choose from you wouldn't of tried everything atleast once till you, ve 
 played for like 10 days. And then even when you have tried everything you'll see yourself going 
 back to the old ones for hours and hours of Fun. Pure Fun.
  
  Online Multiplayer works great. The lag is pretty much not there and it works well. With friends 
 is alot better than with anyone but they are both fun and its impossible to cheat really.
  
  
  UNLOCKABLES AND SPOILERS:
  
  you might miss Roy, Dr. Mario, and Young Link. But I wouldn't 
 see why. Roy was a Marth cop-out and Dr. Mario was absolutly nothing different from Mario. Young 
 Linkg was just a worse Link.
  
  There are surprise characters you didn't expect to return, like Falco, Ness, Ganondorf, and Jiggly 
 Puff. (personaly I knew Jiggly Puff was comming back because he was in the first game and second.)
 
  
  
  OVERALL:
  
  But the point is the unlockables are really fun to unlock and the game it amazingly fun to play 
 over and over.
  
  Brawl is EVERYTHING Melee was and much much more. It lived up to the Hype and is all it's cracked 
 up to be.
  
  People may say the graphics weren't as good as they could of or maybe they didn't do a good of 
 enough job. But I really think this is a game that can't be missed by any true Nintendo fan and 
 gamers alike.
  
  The characters are unique, the graphics are great, and the game is filled with TONS of fun. Multiplayer 
 is better than ever.
  
  Buy Brawl~
  
  
  ~Leakybub 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KamuiFei
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Brawl is very entertaining and I enjoy the game greatly. However, I felt it didn't deliver to the 
 hype it got. Subspace Emissary gameplay and story was good, but nothing really special, aside from 
 the bosses, some of which required tactics to defeat. 
  
  Enemy A. I. at the harder levels seemed to improve from Melee, which is a good thing and offers 
 more challenge. Graphics hasn't improved greatly over Melee, but Brawl is definitely more colorful 
 and feels more fleshed out. There's new characters and even bigger roster of fighters. Unfortunately, 
 some characters feel like "clones" of others. Other characters feel out of place like they don't 
 really belong, i. e. Olimar and Wario. Characters like Roy, Mewtwo and Young Link were removed, 
 which in my opinion was extremely foolish.
  
  One gripe I have is the controls. Personally, the Wiimote wasn't designed for fighting games, making 
 the Classic controller or Gamecube controller necessary to feel in control.
  
  The biggest letdown was the online. I use a Nintendo WiFi adapter to get online with my Wii. Yet 
 almost every match I've played online had lag issues and sometimes will disconnect. Hopefully, 
 this will be remedied in an update soon.
  
  Brawl is at it's most fun when played with others. 4-players can free-for-all or team up. Item 
 appearance can be customized like previous games and the new Final Smash attacks and assist trophies 
 add more variety of attacks, even though it is overpowered.
  
  The one thing I will give Brawl a perfect 10 is the soundtrack. From classic Mario themes to MGS 
 music. The number of composers involved is nothing short of amazing. Brawl delivers fully on music 
 and sound.
  
  Overall, Brawl is really good game, but it was a victim to it's own hype. Brawl was designed with 
 multiplayer in mind, hence why it's story mode, Subspace Emissary was a bit lacking, even though 
 it was fairly enjoyable. Online needs some tuning, etc. 
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl was one of the reasons I got a Wii, I'm still glad I did, even though Brawl 
 is basically Melee 2, with more content and online. I have no regrets about this purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guidono123
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Does the most expected game of all time live to its hype? 
  
  General Aspects
  
  Graphics: This is when you start asking yourself why you said the Wii had crappy graphics. Everything 
 in this game looks great. The characters models are now more detailed and have more sharp- looking 
 weapons, clothes, etc. Also, the game ALWAYS runs at 60 frames per second and never slows down. 
 This shows how much time was spent in polishing characters animations and the like. The stages 
 also look great, and have some actions happening in the background that I love like, say, knuckles, 
 tails and the other white guy running in the background in the green hill zone stage. The menus 
 look better and that, strangely, makes them more user friendly. Even trophies look sharp, especially 
 the ones with the final smashes. Overall, the graphics of this game are really good, but not at 
 the level of SMG, which borders perfection of what can be achieved in the Wii. Grade: 9.5/10
  
  Sound: Absolutely breathe taking. The sound of this game is a good as it gets and has tons 
 of songs to unlock. Almost every song in this game is orchestrated and sounds great. I have actually 
 turned on my Wii only to hear them. They are THAT good. The sound effects are excellent and make 
 you feel inside the battle. Also, the unlockable songs are actually worth unlocking, and the grade 
 of customization you have over which song plays when is amazing. That is done in options. For example, 
 if you like the Wii sports opening song, you go to my music and select the Pictochat stage (which 
 is where this song plays) and increase the chances of it playing in that stage. You can even reduce 
 the other songs chances so that only this one plays! That is great since there are some songs I 
 like more than others (but there's not one song I dislike) . Overall, the sound is definitively 
 a strong point of the game, and even better than SMGs superb track list (I am going to stop with 
 SMG comparisons now) . Grade: 10/10
  
  
  Gameplay: Remember that in Melee sometime controls where hyper- responsive? That problem has been 
 solved and now the controls are spot on. The four control schemes available (Wii remote, Wii remote 
 and nunchuk, classic controller and game cube controller) have pros and cons, but I personally 
 prefer Game cube controller because it is what I am used to. Someone who does not fear for a little 
 change should try the Classic controller, though. In pure Gameplay aspects the only major things 
 that have happened are the addition of final smashes and the elimination of wave dashing. For me, 
 these are welcome changes, because wave dashing was very complicated to use and final smashes add 
 a great depth of strategy. But for those fearing that Brawl was going to be dumbed down for casual 
 audience, fear not! All of the past advanced techniques are still there, and some new ones (like 
 gliding and the ability to dodge various times in midair) . Gameplay does not go too chaotic if 
 you ask me, and that's better. Melee players should notice that, in essence, all of the past characters 
 are still the same, which just a few changes (Link's gale boomerang, for example) and that all 
 attacks (smash, strong, special, etc) are executed the same way as in melee. Overall, the Gameplay 
 is still as good as melee with a few tweaks that makes it even better. Grade: 9.5/ 10 
  
  Value/Replayability: This is the Wii equivalent of the orange box. There are tons of modes that 
 assure that this game will never spend time in your drawer and replayability is through the roof. 
 This is definitely a party game and everytime your friends come over they would want to play. Also, 
 all of the single player modes (except classic) are playable with a friend. You will always want 
 to play at least one brawl per day. Be assured that the tons of modes and options will make you 
 want to play everyday. Grade: 10/10
  
  
  Content: Clearly the guy who made this game made a deal with the devil to fit all of this in the 
 game. There are tons of things in this like the stage builder, the amazing amount of trophies and 
 stickers, masterpieces, the subspace emissary (which I will comment on later) , the ability to save 
 replays and screenshots, the music, the challenges, event matches, the number of stage available 
 and all of the modes in the game. All of this stuff makes you feel that the 50 bucks you spent 
 on it are nothing. Grade: 10/10
  
  Game Modes
  
  Group
  
  This is the essence of SSBB. Here, you can jump right into a brawl with a friend or a computer 
 player, with tons of options to choose from, like what type of match, what items will appear, etc. 
 Also you can play a special brawl, a tourney, rotation or enter names. This is the strong point 
 of SSBB, and definitely a place where you will spend a lot of time. 
  
  
  Solo
  
  Subspace Emissary: This is Brawl's substitution to adventure mode. Now, we got a full single player 
 adventure (or co-op adventure, if you desire) with lots of boss battles, cool 2d platforms sequences, 
 and some amazing cut scenes. The single player is good, fun, and lengthy, but suffers from some 
 repetition and sometimes this can be overly frustrating. It is a very good addition to Brawl, but 
 something you definitely don't want to buy this game for.
  
  Classic: Classic is still here, and it's just about the same as melee. But now, you don't get too 
 much 1 on 1 battles, instead, you get giant battles, mega battles, team battles, etc, all leading 
 to master hand ( the final boss) .
  
  All Star: One of my favorite modes. You basically go defeating opponents from various franchises 
 (Mario, Zelda, etc) with only one life and three heart containers, which replace all of your health. 
 It is challenging, fun, and the best of all is the prize you get at the end of it
  
  Stadium: Here, you can do a target test contest, multi man brawl, home-run contest, and a secret 
 mode. I love them all, especially home run contest. You can really spend great amounts of time 
 in these 4 modes since they are fun, addictive and simple, just what SSBB is about
  
  Events: Here, you take place in battles in which you have to accomplish goals certain goals. I 
 loved the events from melee, and this ones two, as they can be challenging, but I feel a bit ripped 
 of, since there's only 41 events, but there's also 21 coop events. Nice!
  Vault
  
  Here is where all of the amazing content packed into brawl is. Here, you can do various things, 
 like:
  
  - Build a stage with the new stage builder, which is great since you will be able to always experience 
 a new stage.
  - Look at your trophies, arrange them, read their descriptions and take a snapshot of them. Also, 
 you can participate in coin launcher, a minigame in which you shot coins at trophies to earn them.
 
  - View you stickers, arrange them in an album and take snapshots of them.
  - Play masterpieces, which are trial versions of classic Nintendo titles, like Super Mario Bros., 
 F-Zero, The Legend of Zelda, Donkey Kong, Ocarina of Time, Super Mario World, Kid Icarus and many 
 more!!!!
  - View the challenges section, which shows what unlockable content you have unlocked, and clues 
 to unlock the rest.
  - View replays, which are videos of home-run contests, battles, etc recorded by you.
  - View 
 Snapshots.
  - And other things
  
  This section of the game lets you view everything you have. I simply love that.
  
  
  Nintendo 
 WFC
  
  The most anticipated feature of SSBB and it doesn't disappoint. The matches play lag-free in most 
 with anyone matches and in all with friends matches. The ability to send stages, replays and screenshots 
 rocks! Also, I love betting in matches, and watch the pros play. The only complain I have is the 
 lack of options in with anyone matches. Only 2 minute brawls? Oh man
  
  
  Data
  
  Watch your fight record, which helps you know how good you are. I also like very much this feature, 
 but it doesn't affect much your enjoyment of SSBB
  
  Options
  
  Here, you can customize your music, controls etc. Does not really affect your enjoyment of the 
 game either
  
  
  Final Verdict:
  
  Braw is an excellent game, with lots of replay value and options. The few flaws it has, like a 
 bit much of load times, don't affect that your experience with brawl will be the best you will 
 have for years to come
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UltimaVgamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  After 2 delays the most anticipated game of the year is finally here and it is better then i imagined 
 it would be.
  
  Graphics: 
  Well they are not ps3 level graphics, the game has the most stunning graphics i have ever seen 
 on the wii and the environments are beautiful to look at.
  
  Gameplay:
  anyone who played melee should be familiar with the control scheme, but if you haven't, the controls 
 are easy to master, and in this game, you have the option of 4 controls, if you want to have a 
 classic feel to it, i would recommend using the gamecube controller or the classic controller, 
 but if you want a new feel, i recommend using the wii remote+ nunchuck. Along with the classic 
 super smash bros gameplay, a few new elements have been added, like final smashes, new items and 
 assist trophies, not to mention that you can finally mlay super smash bros. ONLINE!!!! 
  
  Sound and music:
  There are many tracks from the previous installment along with remastered tracks, 
 and many, many unlockable tracks , all i have to say is that it is great.
  
  Complaints
  : the subspace emmissary gets repetative story-wise
  : voice acting is sub-par
  : load times 
 are a bit long
  
  
  Final thoughts:
  Again this game far exceded my expectations and is a must own for any wii owner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kozakie
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is a great game for everyone. First of all this game has about an 8 hour 
 adventure mode (Well that is about how long it took me) . Compared to Super Smash Bros. Melee that 
 has 10 minute adventure mode, really made it a lot more fun. The adventure is not boring and is 
 worth playing because it is one of the ways to unlock characters and other things. Next are the 
 graphics which are really amazing for Wii. They are crisp, bright, and frankly the best graphics 
 any Wii game has so far. They are not blurry either which I think were one of the things some of 
 the past Wii games have struggled a bit with. The four different control options are a good idea 
 because many people didn't like the Wii remote and liked the GC controller. The multiplayer is 
 probably the best thing about this game. Some games offer good multiplayer but this is probably 
 the BEST multiplayer game I can think of. Tons of new characters made it so I even forgot about 
 a few characters. Also, if you get sick of the many old and new stages you can even make your own 
 with the stage builder option. I suggest you buy this game because you will play it for many, many 
 hours! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rgc19
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  As an occasional Melee player (didn't own the game) who never really properly learned how to play, 
 I can't tell you how the newest installation of Super Smash Bros stacks up against its predecessor. 
 I can, though, tell you, that after only a week and a half of playing, it is easily the greatest 
 multiplayer game I've ever experienced, and is reason enough to purchase the Wii if you haven't 
 already yet. 
  
  It's obvious that a ton of time and energy went into this title, as there is literally a multitude 
 of different gameplay options and unlockables. Besides the normal 4 player team or brawl battles, 
 there is online play, tournament options, an event mode, a story mode, and even brief snippets 
 of classic Nintendo games of years past. That said, the heart of this game is in the four player 
 brawl mode, which succeeds for a variety of reasons. 
  
  First, the depth of the combat. Each character has a great deal of moves at his disposal, including 
 grabs, throws, blocks, dodges, projectiles, smashes, and aerial and ground strikes. In addition 
 to the standard items that will appear on the stage, every once in a while a glowing smash ball 
 will float around, giving players an opportunity to unleash a unique and powerful smash attack 
 that could turn the tide of the match.
  
  Next is the balance. I've tried every one of the characters out (save toon Link, wolf, and jigglypuff, 
 who I've yet to unlock) and haven't noticed that anyone is noticeably 'better' than the others. 
 Some might be more difficult to play as, but not really better. That said, each character plays 
 very differently, and are appropriately conducive to various play styles. 
  
  The stages on which you'll play range from the plain (final destination) to the crazy (warioware) , 
 and no matter what are mostly accompanied by background graphics. Also included are some classic 
 melee stages and a stage editor, which is a bit limited until you unlock some additional parts. 
 Still, it's a great way to add even more replay value to this game. 
  
  The graphics range from good to great, and the framerate is consistently good. The music is top-notch, 
 fully orchestrated, and draws mainly from the Nintendo games from which the characters hail from. 
 
  
  In the end, the complaints are few and far between. This is a great game, and moreover, a game 
 that I see myself playing for many years to come. Do yourself a favor and go pick up a copy. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerfreak1907
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is everything it's set up to be and more! The game has so much to do in 
 it, it will be hard to put down. The game is like SSBB (Super Smash Bros. Melee) but ten times 
 better. Its graphics are very well done. The game is one that you can just pick up and play with 
 its easy four button controls that work very well and hardly ever malfunction. SSBB has no glitches 
 and is very addicting! The online play lags very little if at all, which makes it tons more enjoyable. 
 Plus while your waiting you can beat the crap out of a pillow. The game has Final Smashes, which 
 are really cool. The Final Smashes Are Very Effective and are possible to dodge but really put 
 a toll on you if you get hit by one. So if you're a Smash Bros. Fan than don't hesitate to buy this 
 stunning game! I will most definetly give this game no less than a perfect Ten out of Ten! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luigismansion101
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Before I get started, let me say I thoroughly enjoyed this game. I'm not looking to be flamed b/c 
 I'm not giving it above a 9. This was a great game in most aspects, but there are some major flaws 
 in it. The biggest and most noticeable is this, it is the exact same game as SSBM. Sure, it has 
 somewhat better graphics, more levels, more characters, and online, but it changed very little 
 from Melee. I went through the single player and thought, man this game is really good, but I felt 
 like I had already done it before. The story wasn't even interesting, but was nice to get the feel 
 of the game after not playing Melee for about 3 years. The grab mechanic has always been broken 
 imo, and it definitely was not fixed in this one. The game had a lot going for it, but didn't expand 
 enough to keep things interesting for very long. The only new addition that really interested me 
 was the stage builder, but after an hour that novelty wore off because it was so limited in what 
 could be done. The game is fun, but needed more new stuff to keep me interested more than 15 hours. 
 Granted it was still a great 15 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheese_Wow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros.... Nuff said. The 3red Super smash bros. game and also the 3rd game of the BIG 
 3 (metroid prime 3, Super Mario Galaxy, and SSBB) since the wiis release. This game is just as 
 great as everyone hyped it to be, you'll find yourself playing it over and over and over again.
 
  
  Gameplay 4/5: Simplicity at its best. you play Brawl and think to yourself what your doing... in 
 reality, your just pressing buttons at moving colors on a TV screen. Then it occurs to you that 
 all your doing is trying to knock the other guy off of the stage. Again, a simple idea, yet addicting. 
 Mainly the reason it took me a week and a half since its NA release to put up a review.
  of course, if you play alot of just regular BRAWL, you'll find it was much the same to Melee in 
 terms of just fighting, which does make i get a tad bit tiresome after hours and hours posibly 
 days of play. But fret not, go outside, talk with a friend, in a matter of hours you'll be back 
 throwing punches and chasing that smash ball. 
  
  sound 5/5: 350 songs of just pure awsomeness! From orchistrated intro, to the retro 8-bit era, 
 this song had dam near everything. even MGS4 music. You'll find yourself in the sound test option 
 just listening to the music of the game. Just remember to turn the wii-more speakers off.
  
  storyline: The SSE is a new adventure mode added to Brawl. Of course we've known this for quite 
 some time now so i won't go into detail about it. Its very fun to play, the cutscenes were also 
 a nice touch to the gameplay, and it allows you to quickly unlock most of the characters so you 
 don't have to play hundreds of brawls before finally being able to play as that 1 character you 
 were looking for. Fairly long adventure too, ranging from 7-10 hours of playtime. The cutscenes 
 range alot in emotion too, one minute being funny, then being serious, then being dramatic, then 
 just flat out awsome! your almost guerenteed to have favorite moments in the story, even if nobody 
 talks in it!
  
  Controls 5/5 There should be no possible way to hear ANYONE complain about controls. with 4 options 
 and the ability to map button movements to fit your style ,there is no way somebody should blame 
 bad controls on their failure unless they forget to fight under their name. Most people prefer 
 the GC controler or the Classic, i however love the feel of the Nunchuck, while others like the 
 closeness of the wii-mote. Chose whichever you like and you'll be a great fighter in no time.
 
  
  Multiplayer 5/5: Super Smash Bros. without a great multiplayer is like having a 42 inch widescreen 
 plasma TV without cable or blueray, it just doesn't make sense. Of course this game will bring 
 people together for hours and hours of virtual fighting. and even if you don't have friends to 
 play with at the time, you can always fight BOTS with skill levels just right for everyone (from 
 1-9, puny - Nasty) . 
  
  All in all Brawl holds its own and is without a doubt the best game on the wii. If you have a wii 
 and no brawl.... thats just a dam shame. Anyway i better hurry up and finish this (just did the 
 patapon review 10 min. ago and i'm starting to get tired of typing) . So i'll end it on this not
 
  
  Super smash bros. Brawl = 9.5/10
  
  i will be honest with you and tell you that you may get bored after about a week or two, but thats 
 just normal in any game
  
  0=== [] =======  Reviewed by SA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoman3000
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  This game was awesome! Even though I am upset at how many times it was delayed it was really worth 
 the wait. The graphics are awesome except for when you try to take a picture. The choice of characters 
 was perfect, I am very happy that they included pit (who is my favorite character) and Zero-suit 
 Samus. The only things wrong with the character select screen is that not all characters have a 
 dark mode and that there isn't James Bond or Sora (you have to love Sora) . I think it is awesome 
 that you can play online or even watch other peoples matches, I just wish that you could use the 
 messages in the online random select matches instead of only using with your friends (if possible 
 to use with online match please tell me) . The best part of the game for me right now is the SSE. 
 It is great that you can play 2 player on the SSE ( especially for people with younger siblings) . 
 This game is awesome for those of you who have not bought it already i advise you to buy immediately. 
 Please take this review into consideration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iceman8012
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Let me just start off by saying that Nintendo has did it once again with their Smash Bros. Series 
 they made a good quality well balanced game for gamers of all ages and groups. You can play at 
 a party with all of your friends or you can play by yourself against a decently tough AI or someone 
 online. You can strategize all of your moves or you can mindlessly attack someone and just as much 
 fun. A game full of variety, secrets, challenges, and fun; Super Smash Brothers: Brawl is a must 
 buy for all Wii owners.
  
  Game play:
  
  Depending on your skill level, or your mood you can make this game anywhere from extremely fast 
 paced to very relaxing. The game plays very similarly to the last ones with a few differences. 
 The first most obvious one... The Smash Balls and the Final Smash Attacks. When one shows up on 
 the screen you have to hit it until you glow and it disappears. When that happens you release your 
 "Final Smash" with the B button and (Depending on your character) get pretty much a Guaranteed 
 KO. Some you have to control yourself and some are pretty much just press special and watch the 
 carnage. The new adventure mode gives the characters more of a feeling of unity than it did in 
 the past. It makes them feel as if they all came from the same game rather than just a random gathering 
 of Nintendo characters. The Brawl mode feels more balanced now not just in characters but in arenas 
 too. All of the characters have more of a distinct difference than last. For Example Luigi isn't 
 just a more annoying Mario anymore They changed some things and Mario has different moves. Also, 
 Ganondorf isn't just another slower Captain Falcon he feels different with his physical moves and 
 his style of moving through the arena. All in all the gameplay for the few changes has done for 
 the better. I feel more attached to it than the last.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Very good for the Wii I have to say myself. The only thing that bothered me though is the annoying 
 feature that is coming more and more into video games since FFX that has just annoyed me. They 
 do that thing on the "Good Scenes" as some people call them where the keep the sames graphics as 
 the game darken the image and then make everything look oddly smooth like they were wax moldings 
 rather than characters. I know I am a bad explainer of those things so if you don't know what I 
 mean than don't worry it isn't that bad. That frame rate is smooth and I have never had any problems 
 with it. Although in Subspace Emissary between two scenes there was a long load time. Not enough 
 to change the score though but it can ruin the mood sometimes.
  
  Online Play:
  
  This is the one thing that made me bring down the score to a 9.5. Their online play isn't as user 
 friendly as others. You can only be friends with people you know in real life and got the friend 
 code from them (or from forums if you go there) and that was an annoying aspect along with the 
 fact that the code was different than your friend code for the main Wii menu and if you don't know 
 that yet and you keep on giving your friends the wrong code it can get annoying. The actual game 
 play online is decently stable with a few issues if you get someone with a bad connection. Sometimes 
 you can be waiting for a while to play a match but not enough to make you leave. Watching matches 
 can be fun too. I spent a few hours just watching matches and betting on who would win.
  
  All in all the game is great for any audience out there and as stated in the Review deck it is 
 great for parties too. I had a party of about 10 and we sat there and held tourneys to see who 
 was the best and we just played matches for five or six hours.
  
  A must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamers_106
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  this game hit online and into america perfect this game was more about playing with your friends 
 then the main game there alot of challanges to complete i still dont get the stickers does only 
 effect the main game or somthing. there alot to do single player play online play brawl do events 
 classic all star and many more. 
  
  graphics on ssee is awsome pretty good graphics for a wii. able to copy and put things into your 
 sd card or memery card or your wii consule. they even have trails for the best hits games u can 
 only play for a certain time then its over. the online play alot better then the pokemon online 
 game its faster and it dosent lag somtimes most of the time no. play with 32 char and 40 or more 
 lvls. u can even make your own lvls. but i wish they had more u can make with even though i unlock 
 both b and c parts i think there a A. cruel mele is easier then ssbm. some items like the golden 
 hammer i dont know somtimes im able to atk with it and other time i cant. dont get me wrong its 
 a great game but there are some flaws that can bring down a score.
  
  y r u reading this play the game if u dont have it get it. if if u dont have a wii i dont know 
 what u going to do. im off playing the game now ya. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: windmaster42
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  super smash bros. brawl is an unbelivibliy awesome game with 22
  default characters and 13 secret characters making it a total 35 playable characters to play as 
 in tons of stages plus some melee stages and you can build your own stages. there are also many 
 more multiplayer modes than ever and a much more lengthyand fun adventure mode with an actual story 
 line. Now you can also play against anyone you want on
  Wi-Fi with basic brawls and team battles. With tons of trophies, stickers
  (a new collecting item 
 in smash bros.) and coins to collect you'll never get tired plus you can play demos of older nintendo 
 games that feature characters that are playable in brawl. Now you can play with four control
  schemes, pick the one you like. Now I'm saying you would be stupid
  to get a Wii and not get SUPER 
 SMASH BROS. BRAWL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimson_blaze
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Like I said before, I wasn't too happy about the delay of the release date, but I played the game 
 and forgot all about it. I got this game yesterday, and I'm loving every minute of it. I just can't 
 describe what I experience. It just makes me speechless. I love how you can create your own levels. 
 The bad thing about it is that you can't use them online. Oh well, doesn't bother me. I only made 
 one basic level so far, but I played it a few times. It's small, but surprisingly fun to play on.
 
  
  This game would be legendary at a party or if you had a few of your buddies over for a flat-out 
 brawl. It's still fun to play on single player, but it's so much better when you got your friends 
 over. I used to play Smash Bros. Melee
  at my buddies house like non-stop, so this game would bring an even more epic experience now that 
 they've added the new smash hit and some other goodies to amp up the entertainment.
  
  So, to make a long story short, buy this game now! You WILL NOT be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leekong
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  Its a fun game, i enjoyed playing it online and offline. especially with your friends and relatives. 
 all i gotta say is that the subspace emissary (Adventure mode) , seems to be missing a lot of stuff 
 into it. i dont know what it is, but after beating it i felt really bored, like there isnt enough 
 to satisfy my taste. Of course i love most of the movie scenes and its nice and all, especially 
 the great background music makes it all intense. 
  
  the event mode seems empty but it really is a great way to learn the many different strategys to 
 become a good brawler. the graphics are 99.9% smooth (i didnt give it 100% because when there are 
 many things happening you will notice a very small little frame drop) . but its nothing to worry 
 about since its unnoticeable and things just happends so fast, so dont worry about frame drops.
 
  
  the battles are good, youll find yourself doing the same old things with the same character all 
 over again with different strategys to overcome your opponent. but thats what brawl is all about.
 
  
  In conclusion its a great game, and its a lot of fun with a lot of people. But if youre just playing 
 it for yourself, then rent it before thinking about buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GtKiNg29
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, this game is easily one of the greatest games of all time (and trust me, i 
 played it and i am horrible at it) . it is just that this is possibly the only thing keeping the 
 wii alive. I once owned a wii and all the games were horrible, even madden. However, if you happen 
 to have a 360 or PS3 to go along with it, it makes the experience even better. That way, when you, 
 dare i say it, get bored of Brawl, you have something to fall back on like Halo, CoD4, Uncharted, 
 Rock Band, etc.
  
  By The Way, if you are curious, my favorite characters are Link, Mario, and Sonic. My most hated 
 character is Pit. The reason why sI get owned every time by anyone who uses him. If that wasn't 
 enough, i started using him and i STILL get owned. In fact, i did worse. To all who use or like 
 Pit -- He sux. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Otzi17ixE
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  This is a game that has been highly anticipated once the release of the Wii was announced. Even 
 with all the relese date changes it is worth ever penny that was spent on this game. The Super 
 Smash Bros series has always been a fun game to invite friends over and have some huge, crazy battles 
 while listening to some Wham! to keep spirit's light. In this game there is so much to do that 
 it even after a week of constant game play I feel that I haven't made much of a dent in the challenge 
 wall. From adventure mood, to events, to your everyday brawl I would not change much about this 
 game.
  
  One thing that has keep me coming back day after day is the ability to fight in so many possible 
 situations. I love the unlockable Melee stages with all the new great stages to play on. CD's are 
 constantly popping onto the screen while expermenting with the new characters.
  
  I say buy it and buy it now. A game that will be fun for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioMellow
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2008 1:04 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Brothers Brawl. Yes. We have waited. We have faced the delays. We have endured. For 
 our patience and endurance... we have been rewarded, I can not say enough good about this game. 
 Few games have that magic. This one does. It pulls you in. Just looking at the case every time 
 I want to put it back in the Wii and play again. Even if I've already played for hours. Its a simple 
 concept. Yet on such a grand scale. Not to mention the game is so damn fun that no matter how old 
 you are you feel young. The biggest pluses are: The multiplayer. With a friend local or a friend 
 online it outshines all others. The single player. Although this game was meant to be major multi-player 
 the single player mode is long and deep. The rewards are grand. The game play is perfect. The visuals 
 are exactly where they need to be. The features... oh my that is never ending. Lets just be frank. 
 If you looked up "Video Game" in the dictionary this game would be there. This is what gaming in 
 the core is all about. To give oneself a good time and have fun. And this game is more then fun 
 my friends. This is the best joy and entertainment a person can ask for. Nintendo has once again, 
 proven the mastery behind gaming they will forever rule. Bow down all others. This is truly the 
 brawl to end them all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic_rusher
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 12:14 am PT
Review:  With 35 different characters to choose from and 39 different base character movesets (when you 
 add the 3 pokemon, Shiek, and Zero Suit Samus) , you can easily find something you like. The media 
 on this game is just fantastic. Download previously played matches and send those to friends, take 
 pics AT ABY TIME and send those to friends, and intuitive online play! Yes, I know for some of 
 you the online is not working well every time, but that is because it is a player v player connection 
 without Nintendo servers. I GET NO LAG AND I CAN JUST BE FREE WITH MY NICE CONNECTION! Also, the 
 subspace emissary features a great adventure with lots of collectibles, recognizable bosses, Co-op 
 mode, and beautifully made cutscenes. The regular brawls become quite addictive. There are many 
 things you can do other than regular brawls, adventure, and online. There is a challenge stadium 
 featuring Home-Run Contest, Multi-Man Brawl, Target Test, and Subspace Boss runs. Lastly, the challenges 
 are fun to achieve anf brag about. It is NOT a game worth missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Deepblue
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Don't let the game review summary cause you to think that Brawl is the perfect game. It isn't the 
 perfect game, but it's easily the best game in the series thus far, and about as perfect as a Smash 
 Bros. game or a fighting game can get. And yes, Smash Bros. is a fighting game series. I don't 
 care what people say. It's just a different kind of fighting game. Just as there are different 
 type of shooters, there can also be different type of fighting games as well. That said, the Smash 
 Bros series is a different breed of fighting games. In case you aren't familiar with the way Brawl 
 plays, I will elaborate a little on that. The Smash series is largely loved as a multi player game. 
 You and three buddies or just you and the CPU opponents can choose your favorite Nintendo characters 
 to square off against each other. Up to four people can play in one match. Instead of health gauges 
 you instead get percentage gauges on Brawl. When you are attacked your percentage gauge will go 
 higher. The higher your percentage gauge, the easier it is to get knocked off screen. When you 
 are knocked off screen you lose a point and the person that knocks you off screen gains a point. 
 Whoever has the most points at the end of a timed match, wins. You can decide how long the match 
 lasts. It could be a quickie one minute match or even an epic 99 minute showdown. There are more 
 ways to play Brawl than timed matches however. If time isn't your thing you can play a stock match. 
 In stock matches you choose how many lives each character starts with, and once that character 
 loses all their lives, they are out of the match. Coin matches are the other way to play. By hitting 
 an opponent you cause them to omit and lose coins. The player with the most coins at the end of 
 the match, wins. If you want to get a little more creative and crazier, you can go to special brawl 
 to spice up and customize your matches even further. I believe that Smash Bros. is so loved fighter 
 because it's unpredictable, frantic, and not constricted. The stages in Smash Bros. are also very 
 different than most stages on other fighting games. Each stage is themed with Nintendo greatness. 
 You can fight at Norfair from Metroid. You can fight at Yoshi's Island, Eldin Bridge from Twilight 
 Princess, the first level of the original Super Mario Bros, inside of a Mr. Game & Watch hand held 
 electronic game, or even on the Nintendo DS Pictochat screen. Most of the stages change, move, 
 and interact in ways that can really help determine the final outcome of a match. Some levels are 
 crazy while others are simplistic. And others are small while some are huge. There are plenty of 
 characters to fight with in Brawl. A total of 35 characters in fact. And each character can become 
 a fantastic fighter if taken the time to master. All of the characters in the game except for two 
 are all characters from Nintendo's most beloved franchises as well as a few other Nintendo characters 
 that are not in a video game at all. You'll see what I mean when you unlock all of the characters. 
 Aside from your characters attacks you can also allow items to come into the match. You can select 
 what items you want to come in and how much of the items you want to appear as well. The best item 
 in the game is also one of Brawl's most attractive new features. The Smash Ball is an item that 
 floats around the screen. Inside the smash ball is this great power that gives whoever busts it 
 open a final smash attack. The final smash attack is the most devastating attack in the game. Depending 
 on what character you have, you could get up to 3 K. O. s in 10 seconds or less. This can really 
 change the outcome of the match just all of a sudden. Each character has a smash attack. 
  
  So perhaps you're not too big on multi player. Perhaps you just don't know anyone that is interested 
 in playing Smash Bros. with you? Perhaps you aren't able to take advantage of Brawl's online capabilities? 
 Is Brawl still a game worthy of your Wii collection even as a single player experience you ask? 
 My answer is definitely yes. Although you will be missing out on a big piece of meat of the game, 
 you will still find that there is a load of content and a lot of things to do in Brawl that will 
 keep you busy for a long time to come. There are plenty of game modes, events, trophies, stages, 
 characters, stickers, music tracks, and a lot of other content to unlock and sink your teeth into. 
 There is also a stage editor in Brawl. And while it isn't all that amazing, it can still provide 
 for some creative fun. Now on to to the game modes for single players. In Classic mode you must 
 choose one character, a certain amount of lives, and a difficulty setting to get ready to go through 
 12 stages. On each stage you must fight a certain amount of characters or complete a certain objective 
 to advance to the next level. And sometimes you will get an ally to help you. When you complete 
 Classic mode with your character of choice you are rewarded with the trophy of that character. 
 I will get to trophies a little further in the review. If you have been following Smash Bros. in 
 the least, or reading reviews, you have probably most definitely heard of the new single player 
 adventure mode called the Subspace Emissary. If you have read anything on the Subspace Emissary 
 you have probably seen some good, mixed, and bad things said about it. Subspace Emissary isn't 
 your ordinary stomp and romp through a single player mode in a fighting game. It could take up 
 to 8-10 hours to complete, and it's how you unlock pretty much every character in the entire game. 
 The Subspace Emissary is like a side scrolling adventure/platformer/2D fighter brewed all into 
 one. You start at the beginning and your goal is to get to the end of the stage. When you complete 
 a stage you are taken to a map screen so you can go on to the next stage or visit stages you have 
 already completed. The Subspace Emissary is amusing for a while, but can get a bit repetitive. 
 It was something that I personally could not stomach in large chunks. I had to nibble by coming 
 back multiple times to eventually play my way through. Otherwise I would have gotten sick of it. 
 I won't say that the Subspace Emissary is a flop. There is some sort of story to it. And although 
 it doesn't make sense, it's nice to see the characters of Nintendo meet each other and come together. 
 The Subspace Emissary is also very rewarding and on it's own it would still be a pretty decent 
 little game. If you're planning on getting Brawl for the single player experience you will also 
 have a lot of goodies to unlock. There is a trophy for pretty much everything that you see in the 
 entire game as well as hundreds and hundreds of trophies from different Nintendo series. Each trophy 
 has a lot of info telling about the stage, character, item, or model it's representing. There is 
 also a sticker book in which you can collect all sorts of stickers from the Nintendo world and 
 beyond as well. Other than those modes and unlockables there are a few other events and challenges 
 as well. The stage editor is also a very cool addition as well. You won't be able to create stages 
 with the artistic style like the ones in the actual game, but you can still let your creative side 
 come out with what the game does give you. You can choose the size, background, and music of your 
 stage and get to work. You can unlock new platforms, features, and other things for your stage 
 as well.
  
  Now to the meat of the game. The multi player is still the heart of the Smash Bros. series. Locally 
 you can get one to three buddies and duke it out, or you can finally go online. When Nintendo finally 
 announced that Brawl would have online not too long before its release, everyone was happy, including 
 myself. So am I happy after experiencing a lot of online play so far? As much as I want to say 
 how awesome it is to Brawl online, I do have some gripes. My first gripe isn't particularly about 
 Brawl, but about friend codes. This is the first game I have tried to use friend codes with and 
 I can finally see what all of the grumbling is about. If you're like me you will want to find dozens 
 of people to play online with. Just in case someone else isn't on at a particular time, you can 
 find someone else on perhaps. The best way to find friends to Brawl with is to go online and find 
 some good forums. I recommend our very own Gamespot forums and the official Wii Friend Codes sites. 
 The problem is that you have to enter this gigantic thread where everyone is desperately trying 
 to exchange codes. You have to jot down and enter these long twelve digit codes, and then wait 
 to see if the other person registers you. I have several people on my list whom I have added and 
 private messaged them, and they still have not registered me on their friend code roster. Friend 
 Codes is a hassle. Now on to my gripe about Brawl's online. If you do not Brawl with a friend online 
 you can only play a 2 minute time match against strangers with no names displayed. So after going 
 through the friend code mess and finally finding a few guys (or ladies) to play with, you then 
 have lag issues. Before I vent about the lag issues I will say that with friends your options and 
 customizations for Brawls open up tremendously. Now on to the lag issues. I have had a few matches 
 that have almost been lag free. This is a rarity, but it feels like a blessing when it happens. 
 But for the most part my experience has seemed like a curse. There has been a very noticeable lag 
 in most of my matches and sometimes rendering the match completely unplayable. Even yet, I will 
 admit that Brawling is pretty addictive online. I just hope I can get into more lag free matches.
 
  
  Brawl is a very sharp looking game. Galaxy is still the best looking game on the Wii, but being 
 second best isn't so bad. The animations are fluid. The character models are sleek. The visual 
 design is fantastic. And the cut scenes are eye candy. As far as sound goes, Brawl has an amazing 
 soundtrack. You can find CDs throughout the Subspace Emissary and unlock music by doing different 
 events and modes as well. You can then listen to the music you unlock at any time or you can choose 
 what songs you want to have play on certain stages when you Brawl on them. You can also put whatever 
 music from the game on your own levels that you create as well. The soundtrack mainly consists 
 of huge remixed and orchestrated Nintendo classic tunes. This game will make you realize that Nintendo 
 is the king of music in video games. The music is one of the games greatest strengths. Possibly 
 the best video game soundtrack of all time right here. Brawl will keep you playing for a long time. 
 If you owned and loved Melee chances are that you played for years. Now add just about anything 
 good that you can possibly add to that game and you have Brawl. Brawl isn't revolutionary, but 
 it's a leap. Brawl isn't quite the leap that Melee made from the original. But it feels like the 
 perfecting of a great series. The Smash Bros. series has reached its peak. And if this is the last 
 entry in the series... it certainly goes out with a bang. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XCrunner161
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Who hasn't heard of Super Smash Brothers? Since its release as a Nintendo 64 game, gamers have 
 been addicted to the simple yet entertaining game play. I mean, what other game brings together 
 all of the unforgettable characters that we grew up with? The game itself is a brilliant idea. 
 Bring famous characters from Nintendo games and dump them all into non-stop fighting action. The 
 games controls are simple. One button for attacks and another for special attacks. Tilt the control 
 stick in a direction for different attacks. How hard could it be? But within these simple controls, 
 there is so much more. When to use which attack. When to block. When to roll. While the game is 
 fun for beginners and masters alike, it is easy to see the difference between an experienced veteran 
 and a newbie beginner. Many may say this game is no different from the others. Nothing new. Well 
 35 characters is a lot of characters. New modes and much more content is involved. Subspace Emissary. 
 That is enough new stuff to keep me content. Change isn't necessarily good and this sequel keeps 
 all of the good and fixes all of the bad of melee. This game is one that no wii owner should miss. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tim_aka_link
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  From Smash Bros. to the Melee to the Brawl, Nintendo has finally outdone themselves with this one. 
 It's hard to even know where to start with this game. It has so many modes, characters, stages, 
 and more.
  
  It is easiest to start off with the cons since those are so few so here they are. No online voice 
 chat, despite the fact many people find there is little lag, I find it can become unbearable at 
 times even though its mostly alright, Subspace can feel too long and you just want to get it over 
 with, they made Link much worse of a pick IMO. (Thats a personal con) YOU'LL WANT EVEN MORE CHARACTERS 
 WHEN YOU'RE DONE GETTING THEM ALL BECAUSE YOU CAN NEVER BE SATISFIED. And those are the cons, nothing 
 too huge to change your mind about this game, just a few things that could have been improved upon.
 
  
  And now the good stuff. Great roster to choose from, you can create your own stages, graphics are 
 amazing considering it IS the Wii, online play, wonderful replay value, you can take snapshots 
 at any time and save replay data to send it to your friends, many single player modes are made 
 co-op. BEST GAME FOR WII. 
  
  I would actually give this game a 9.9/10 since there are those minor things that could have been 
 improved on and it IS a sequel. But since I kind of can't do that I'll rate it 10/10. 
  
  And those are the facts, this game is over hyped but it is definitely worth the wait and worth 
 the money. It will be played for years to come and if you don't have a wii you should seriously 
 consider getting one for this game. It's just that awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyberdupo56
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  What can I possibly say? Brawl is simply pure awesome. It features, in addition to its normal multiplayer 
 features, a plot-driven adventure mode whose story is worked on by the creator of the plot for 
 the Final Fantasy franchise, which in a sense already guarantees the highest quality. There are 
 Virtual Console demos of the original games for each of the fighters in Brawl, Wi-Fi play, a coin 
 launcher mode similar to an arcade game, huge amounts of trophies and stickers, a stage builder 
 for unlimited play, and beefed up modes that were present and such a revolution in the preceding 
 prequels. So many improvements, my only suggestion is to look over the official site and iwata 
 asks on Brawl. The graphics are decent, not PS3 style, but much improved from melee. There is a 
 plethora of songs and music remixed from classic games here, it's ridiculous. (in other words, 
 sound = PWN) Gameplay is Melee and the original's multiplied. So many options and collectibles 
 plus online play translates to infinite replay value. Contender to tie with Oot, certainly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super-Mario-Fan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  The much awaited sequel to Smash Bros. Melee arrives with more stages and characters than you can 
 shake a smash ball at! In addition to the wealth of modes updated from Melee, brawl now features 
 an enhanced storyline called the Subspace Emissary. Beating it can take upwards of 8 hours, a huge 
 leap over the adventure mode in Melee. The gameplay tactics remain largely unchanged except for 
 the addition of the final smash, a powerful move that can only be activated by attacking a randomly 
 flying smash ball. There are four control methods for the game, and I've found the Wii Remote/Nunchuck 
 and GameCube control methods to be the best. Each character has a wealth of regular, special, and 
 aerial moves to attack opponents with. The graphics definitely are a huge step up from Melee, and 
 they show that the Wii is much more than a GameCube with a remote. Co-op play is heavily emphasized 
 in Brawl. The Home Run Contest, Event Matches, and even the Subspace itself support up to two players. 
 Unfortunately, the online isn't as robust. Much of the online is focused on the friend-code system, 
 and even the regular stranger-oriented matches lack a leaderboard. There is, however, a spectator 
 mode where you can watch other people play, a first for an online Wii game. Another thing that 
 may come to somewhat of a shock to the Nintendo faithful are the long loading times. Some load 
 times in the Subspace can take over 10 seconds to read. It's very unusual for a Smash game, and 
 a Nintendo game in general. Most of these drawbacks, though, can be overlooked, simply because 
 there is so much content in this game to work with. For the most part, it has met the massive hype 
 it has gotten over the past few years (yes YEARS) . It is well worth the $50 purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  It's been 5 long years, but the wait is finally over! Nearly all of the favorites from Melee return; 
 Mewtwo, Roy, Pichu, Dr Mario, and Young Link didnt make it. Many few faces make their first appearance. 
 First off, I must say that is game is not the same as Melee, in the sense of gameplay physics and 
 many factors. The dev team has done a great job in balancing the huge list of characters. People 
 will find that most of the old characters from the N64 game, that took a power hit in the move 
 to Melee are nearly back at their original strength.
  Everything single-player that Melee had is back. Classic, Events, you name it. The most notable 
 change is that adventure mode is now a huge sidegame on its own, easily requiring at least 8 hours 
 to complete. However, the Subspace Emissary does get repetitive after a while playing it, and the 
 story behind the events doesnt much exist, other than the characters join forces to fight a mysterious 
 common enemy. The cutscenes are very well done.
  Multiplayer is as good and intense as ever. Brawling with your friends is incredibly fun. Plus 
 you can take your brawls online, though the online service could use a good performance tuning. 
 Im sure with time these kinks will be worked out. Choose from 35 characters to play as on lots 
 of new and past stages, (plus you can make your own!) as you beat each other up Nintendo style.
 
  
  Gameplay 10- While I could nitpick the game for various small issues, none of them take away from 
 the greatness that Brawl is. And once you get used to the transition from Melee to Brawl, you will 
 hardly even notice them. If using the Wiimote/Nunchuck does not fit your style, Gamecube and Classic 
 controllers are also supported.
  
  Graphics 10- Some of the best visuals on the Wii hands down. Characters are very well done, and 
 the stages are of the same quality with styles ranging from retro to outstanding design visually 
 like the rest of the game.
  
  Sound 10- Over 30 of some of gaming's best musicians and composers are brought together to create 
 the remixed soundtracks packed into this game. There are many, many CD items to find in order to 
 be able to use them all. Stage music is completely customizable. A particular track you dont care 
 for? No problem! Adjust how often each track is used with My Music settings.
  
  Replay Value 10- If Melee can keep people playing for years, then Brawl should have no problem 
 doing the same. It's amazing just how much content is stuffed onto one disc, and Brawl takes the 
 ideas of unlockables- whether be it trophies, stickers, music, stages, characters, etc- to unheard 
 of levels with the sheer number of things there are to find and collect.
  
  Fun Factor 10- Smash Brothers has always been outstanding fun to play, even more so with friends. 
 And with all the added features and modes since the last iteration in the series, there is something 
 for everyone: be it duking it out online, with friends, or by yourself. Super Smash Bros Brawl 
 is the ultimate collection of awesome, Nintendo history, and good old nostalgia. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ultradude1991
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  If you own a Wii, and do not own Super Smash Brothers Brawl, then you just didn't reserve it. That's 
 the only actual excuse I can think of.
  
  While Melee was plagued by cheap strategies, no story, and an expectable roster of characters (with 
 many of them being clones) and exploitable glitches, none are to be found in Brawl. It has no Cheap 
 Strategies such as Wavedashing, an actual story, and a roster of Characters so varied that you 
 almost feel like your at a family reunion where everyone knows your name but you forgot theirs, 
 but yet they seem so familiar to you that, OH YEAH THAT GUY HE'S MY UNCLE DAVID. Granted the clone 
 characters exist (WOLF) , but they arent perfect copies and have varying play styles.
  
  As for the Story, Id say about 95% of it was an absolute blast and a joy to play, with creative 
 bosses and fun massive fights. The other 5% was filled with REALLY ANNOYING PLATFORMING. Such as 
 a moving stage that makes you aim a cannon into another cannon and the sort (I lost like 6 lives 
 doing that) .
  
  As for the online play, its a hoot. You can play online with multiple people from the same Wii, 
 and It makes me happy that Nintendo is getting serious about Online. Its generally Lag free with 
 a few syncing exceptions, but thats online in general. Friend code registration isnt tough and 
 really isnt a hassle.
  
  As for the other features, the Stage Creator is a nice touch, Final Smashes are epic (With a few 
 exceptions (FALCO, TOON LINK, WOLF) )
  
  Overall its the best game I have played in years, it takes a serious troll to hate on this game. 
 10/10. A Must-Play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pimpin_playah
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Let's face it: this is a great game only made better by an excruciating seven year wait. It was 
 worth it though - an unprecedented horde of 35 characters both new and old, countless stages, and 
 almost 100 soundtracks. Nintendo really took their time with this one. 
  
  For those who haven't played any of the Super Smash Bros. series before, let me briefly outline 
 what the game is all about. In past games, Nintendo took all the notable characters from any of 
 their past games, threw them onto a stage, and pitted them against each other in an all out brawl. 
 In this game, SSBB, they took all those characters, plus some other non-Nintendo ones, and threw 
 them into the mix. Some of the more known characters, being around since the very first game, are 
 Mario, Kirby, Link, and Pikachu. 
  
  The game is one of the most addicting to play, yet is very simple too. There are two basic buttons: 
 the A button, which does a normal, mostly physical hit, and the B button, which takes each characters' 
 special abilities and turns it into an attack of their own (on the Gamecube controller) . Each of 
 these attacks varies from character to character, and when used in combo with the control stick, 
 you can control the direction in which the hit is made. Also, by tilting the control stick different 
 degrees, you can control how hard each hit is. Very basic, but this makes it easy to learn and 
 less frustrating, therefore making it more addictive. A new concept for Brawl is the final smash: 
 an uber-powerful move specially designed for each character that can blow all your opponents away. 
 In fact, it is so powerful that you can only utilize it when you have collected a smash ball- a 
 floating orb that breaks open to bestow the character with this power. It takes a while to master, 
 but makes for hours of fun and can become very addictive.
  
  The real fun comes when playing with friends. Sure, playing the computer is fine and many times 
 can be very challenging, but their lack of intelligence makes it kind of boring. Playing with friends 
 is what the game was designed for. Humans are sociable creatures, and having someone there to play 
 with (and taunt, and rub it in their face when you win) makes it all the more fun. Plus, humans 
 are more intelligent and they'll do things that the computers won't do, like pick up items and 
 not run into walls. The sense of competition will keep you playing for hours. 
  
  So, if you haven't gotten this game yet, get in your car, and go buy one right now! Pick a character, 
 and start kicking some @$$! (Btw, Kirby is the best character fyi) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boom60
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing this series ever since the first one released, and it jus keeps getting better. 
 Melee was perfect in every way, but somehow brawl completely rapes it. Thats jus how good this 
 game is. Ive been playing it like its my job since its release. The main reason it is so good is 
 the character selection. If one of ur favorite gaming characters is not in this game, then ur jus 
 plain bein picky. The stages also jus keep gettin more and more complicated. Using the stage against 
 ur opponent is vital to ur success, which adds a nice chalenge. The AI for the cpu opponents is 
 also much more well rounded. Though it is not frustrating, it feels more like playing a human. 
 The final smashes also add a big challenge to the gameplay, but the distribution of the smash balls 
 u need to grab to perform the final smashes ends up being even, so they normally dont make the 
 difference in the match. The last huge addition to the game is the long lasting adventure mode. 
 If you stretch it out, the adventure mode can last at least ten hours, which almost makes it a 
 game within a game. The story is also very suspenseful and adds a lot of excitement. This game 
 is a must buy for all nintendo fans.
  
  
  P. S.- Wolf kicks ass!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Never_Fear
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  This is easily the most highly anticipated games for the Wii, so I figured I'd share my thoughts.
 
  
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is a game that's not perfect, but it comes close. Ever since 2006, gamers 
 have been waiting for SSBB, and it is not worth the wait, I'm sorry to say. I'm not saying it's 
 a bad game, but it could use some improvements. The worst thing in this game are the Wii controls, 
 which suck. Luckily, Nintendo let's us play with the Classic Controller, the horizontal Wii Remote, 
 and my favorite, the GC controller. The Wii controls are almost entirely different from the controls 
 you came to love in Melee, but the GC controller has those same controls, which you can modify 
 is you didn't like those controls. Another big improvemet is needed. In a certain section of the 
 game, you can play classic games such as Donkey Kong, The Legend Of Zelda, etc. However, you can 
 only play Donkey Kong for thirty seconds, and The Legend Of Zelda for less than a minute. I know 
 they want to just preview the game before you buy it in the Wii Shop Channel, but it's not Nintendo-like 
 to advertise their product in a video game.
  
  Apart from that, the game has many new features, some good, some bad, and some amazing. My favorite 
 new feature is easily Subspace Emissary. It replaces the Adventure Mode of Melee, by quite a lot. 
 While Adventure Mode of Melee should last you less than 10 minutes, Subspace Emissary should last 
 you at least 10 hours. During the 10 hours, previous characters are teaming up with the newcomers 
 to defeat strange new enemies. Some teams are cool, and some are just plain funny. Mario and Link 
 team up while Diddy Kong and Fox team up. Plus, by now you should know that there are at least 
 10 new characters. Ranging from Wario to Solid Snake, the characters have taunts and special attacks. 
 The last new feature I want to mention is the Smash Ball. I don't know much about it, considering 
 I've been spending almost all of my time on the Subspace Emissary (which doesn't use the Smash 
 Ball) . However, from what I've seen of it, it's pretty sweet. It's sort of rare, but comes up often 
 enough, to help unleash mega fury. The character who beats up the floating ball fastest, gets the 
 power to use their special attack (a. k. a. smash) .
  
  To get to the point, the game itself it worth buying. As much as you want to love this game and 
 never stop playing it, it's just not a game that will go down in history. But, the game is fun 
 and will last you quite a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CastlevaniaFan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  As far as the Wii is going, SSBB is about as good as it gets- it's a must buy. As far as the game 
 itsself, It's an improvement but I have mixed opinions about it.
  
  First thing you'll notice is that it is little different from SSBM except for a new coat of paint. 
 SSBM took the original and amazed everyone with way better graphics, many-many more characters, 
 bigger stages, and a new feeling game all around. Brawl hits a high note, but does not change the 
 formula at all from Melee. The graphics are awesome, the best on the wii and look beautiful. The 
 control works well and has made smash bros combat faster than ever. But, the game has it's shortcomings.
 
  The AI opponents in the game are some of the worst I've seen in many video games. At mid to high 
 levels, they work well but are easily dispatched. At high levels, they follow vicious patterns 
 of attack, but mean only mastering their pattern to beat them repeatedly. Also, fighting the AI 
 will make you no better at playing another person.
  A new feature has been added to the game! slipping and falling down...
  The game decides to make 
 your character slip whenever you turn around quickly or at a pivotal moment of attack. It breaks 
 up gameplay and is just plain gay and annoying. Also, plenty of new items have been added that 
 unbalance gameplay more than ever! hooray!....
  Online mode is a joke, with three or four players- expect some nasty lag.
  
  There are plenty 
 of good new features too though. New characters are cool, some of the new levels are neat, and 
 the game boasts a HUGE musical score. The stage maker is cool but gets used up fast unless you 
 have a BIG imagination. The story mode is a lengthy (tedious at times) experience, that while is 
 good- is completely shot after you complete it.
  
  Overall, I think it's a good game that fits the place that melee did (but does little more) . Expect 
 to play it as much as melee (perhaps more if you like trophy and music collecting) but maybe with 
 not as much enjoyment.
  
  Yet, don't go by me- go with the majority- and they all gave it a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manny1105
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Story
  
  In a world... where everybody does nothing but fight, fight, and fight... endlessly fighting, and if 
 you lose... you will be turned into something.... HORRIBLE!!!.... a trophy.... but this time, the nintendo 
 universe... will team up! and stop this trophy madness!!! as the evil gang of  
 minister... and the evil... master hand! but now... mario and his friends go on a journey to stop 
 the trophication!
  
  Graphics
  
  you can toatally tell the difference, mario has more deatail, link looks like his twilight princess 
 look, he even carries the hyrule shield and master sword, everything in my opinion is more deeper 
 detailed... which is a good thing....
  
  Control
  
  ok, the control is absolutley awsome! you can use the wii mote turned on it`s side, you can use the 
 wii mote with the nunchuck, you can use the gamecube controller, or you can use the classic controller! 
 and if you find the controls difficult.... you can make the controls yourself on the options menu!
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  well... it`s nice, and easy, basicly, there is a punch button, and there is a special button, which 
 every charcter has, there are four of them, a normal special move, an up special move, a side special 
 move, and a down special move. and there is something called a "final smash", which everybody has, everybody`s 
 final smash is differnet and uniqe. and you can taunt, during online mode, you can write messages 
 when you taunt. and the online mode is strong and competitive... and you can create your own stages! and 
 there is something called the subspace emmisary, where you play as alot of characters through the 
 world of subspace! you can also use stickers to upgrade a character, during the way, you can unlock 
 trophies, also, a mode called classic mode, you simply defeat enimies! and earn a trophy... there is 
 something called tourney! you simply create a tournement... it`s fun when you play with a friend! 
 and you can take in game snapshots and send them on you wii, and your cell phone!!!
  
  
  
  The Good
  
  #1
  
  it`s good gameplay will keep you playing for days! maybe weeks!, hey, maybe 
 even months!!!
  
  #2
  
  nice amount of  stickers to unlock
  
  #3
  
  fun multiplayer!
 
  
  #4 
  
  it`s fun to make your own stages
  
  
  #5
  
  the online multiplayer startes to get addictive
  
  #6
  
  send some of your friends some 
 photos and replay data.... and stages!!!
  
  
  The Bad
  
  #1
  
  you cant play your custom stages online
  
  #2
  
  nintendo could of added a bit more characters...
 
  
  
  well i hope this review helped you decide if you want to buy this game or not, in my opinion, i HIGHLY 
 recommend getting this game to add to your wii collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6h05tly
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  INTRODUCTION
  Over the years Nintendo created some of the most beloved characters in gaming's history. Characters 
 like Mario and Link became part of gamers' lives, and probably part of their gaming soul. When 
 Smash Bros was released in the final few years of the Nintendo 64, owners of this console could 
 now create dream matches with their favorite characters. When I played the first Smash Bros. game 
 at my friend's house back then, we would play this for hours, even playing matches with the maximum 
 stock lives. It was that good. When Smash Bros. Melee was released along with the Gamecube's launch, 
 it would later become the most-played game I have ever played (and I still play it to this very 
 day) . Now with Smash Bros entering Wii territory I can honestly tell you that this is one of Nintendo's 
 best games they ever conceived since Super Mario Bros. 3 (which is my fave Mario game of all time, 
 and my fave game ever) . So before we draw swords and settle the score, let's see what Brawl will 
 offer for us long-time and new contenders, shall we?
  
  STAGE BUILDER
  This was the main reason why I wanted Brawl in the first place: to create my very own stages (and 
 even re-create some stages from past Smash Bros. games) . You choose how big or small you want your 
 stage to be; a background for your stage (only 3 are available) ; and the music you want to use 
 for your custom stage. The content for your custom stages depends on what background you use. For 
 instance, if you choose the mountain sky background, you can add structures such as "mushrooms" 
 in the stage. Not all of the background-themed stages will have the same structures, but the parts 
 and feature parts will stay the same (just the textures of the parts will relate to that specific 
 theme) . You are limited to a number of content for each custom stage which can be bothersome when 
 you come up with brilliant-looking stages like you and I. You can save your stages either on your 
 Wii's flash memory or on an SD card (I recommend using the SD card so that you can create as many 
 stages to your heart's content) . You can even submit your stages online so everyone can try them 
 out (you can only submit one stage a day) . The only few problems with the Stage Builder are the 
 limited characters you can use for the stages' title and your comments about it; and you can't 
 (I think) play your custom-made stages with your friends or anyone online.
  
  TROPHIES, STICKERS, PHOTOS, OH MY!!!!
  The trophies are back and there are more of them than 
 ever before! They are categorized in the specific Nintendo series like Mario Bros. and Pokemon, 
 much more organized than on Melee. But just like Melee, it will be hard to read the descriptive 
 information for each trophy you have in your collection. But it makes it up in terms of graphical 
 detail. The trophies in Brawl are much prettier than on Melee. Since I'm an art enthusiast, I looked 
 at every detail of these trophies for about 5-to-10 minutes.
  
  The photo album feature is back and it has been vastly improved in Brawl. Rather than going to 
 a specific mode seen in Melee, all you do is pause during a match, align where the action is, and 
 take a picture. It's that easy. And you can save it either on the Wii console or on an SD card 
 (like the stages, I highly recommend the SD card if you are the kind of person who takes multiple 
 shots of Brawls) . And in trophy mode you can place up to 4 trophies in the desired background and 
 take a snapshot of your trophies in different poses (for example, the trophies of Trace and Sylux 
 in a picture of them going head-to-head on the planet Earth as the background) .
  
  The stickers are a new trend for this game, and something gamers will enjoy. You can place these 
 stickers on any of the different backgrounds and take snapshots. These stickers play a role in 
 the Subspace Emissary mode (which I will explain later) . There are over hundreds of stickers spanning 
 Nintendo's history (and some non-Nintendo ones as well) . To get these stickers, there are a few 
 ways. One way to get them is through Brawls: As you play matches, falling pieces of paper will 
 appear. Grab them and they will be added to your sticker collection. Another way to get them is 
 in the mini game where you shoot spaceships to earn stickers (You can also shoot trophies to add 
 them in your collection.)
  
  Other features in Brawl are Chronicles which is a collection of Nintendo games since they became 
 a house home name in the video game market in the 1980s (you can unlock more list of games as you 
 progress through Brawl) . The other feature is Masterpieces, where you can play demo trials of specific 
 games from Nintendo's past consoles. This will give you an idea of how these games play if you 
 decide to purchase them via Wii Shop Channel. You can unlock more Masterpieces as you progress 
 through the game.
  
  THE ARTS
  For the graphics, it looks much better than its predecessor. The graphics look next-gen but can't 
 compete with rivals Sony and Microsoft's respective consoles. The polygon work (or polygon counts 
 as some refer it to) is just amazing. Some of the fighters in Brawl are pretty good, vast improvements 
 from their Melee counterparts. Mario looks very detailed, Pikachu is as cute (yet fearsome) as 
 ever, and Bowser looks as good as he was in Mario Galaxy. The cutscenes in Subspace Emissary are 
 a sight to see, which I will explain about this mode shortly. This is by far the best-looking Smash 
 Bros game at the moment and one of the Wii's most gorgeous-looking games since Super Mario Galaxy 
 and No More Heroes.
  
  For the music, this is hands down the best soundtrack I've ever heard in my life. With music like 
 the Brawl version of Metal Gear Solid 4's "Theme of Love" (which is just a taste of what we will 
 hear in the upcoming PS3 title) , many composers around the industry brought their talents for the 
 game's soundtrack. Legendary composer (and my all-time fave) Koji Kondo spiced things up with a 
 Latin version of the Super Mario Bros. ground theme. You can unlock more music in a few ways: collect 
 CDs in Brawls or unlock them by doing specific tasks. I can't tell you how many musical works there 
 are in this game, but I can tell you there is A LOT of them.
  
  GAMEPLAY: SINGLE-PLAYER
  To not go into much detail, there is the return of Classic mode where you just beat up people; 
 Stadium mode with the modes like Home-Run, Multi-Brawl, and Target modes as seen in Melee make 
 their return in Brawl; and Training, where you brush up your skills against CPU fighters. And there 
 is Subspace Emissary, a new single-player story mode that isn't as appealing as some (or many) 
 thought it would. If you ever played any of the Kirby games, that is how this mode is: go from 
 level to level, door to door in a side-scrolling fashion. It is a long story mode sans any acting, 
 just cutscenes (this gets a bit complicated since none of the characters have voiceovers) . You 
 can have a second player to help you play these solo modes, especially in Subspace Emissary. Overall, 
 it is still fun to play.
  
  GAMEPLAY: MULTIPLAYER
  For offline, you can Brawl with up to 4 players. You can change the rules before you start a fight; 
 choose the Brawl, Melee, and Custom stages of your choosing; and bring the fight even more chaotic 
 by using Special Brawl where you customize the size, speed, effects (to name a few) of the upcoming 
 battles. With this much content, it will be hard to put down once you hold the controller. Speaking 
 of which, there are 4 different control configurations for you to choose: Gamecube controller, 
 Classic controller, Wii remote, and Wii remote and Nunchuk. I prefer the traditional controls of 
 the Gamecube and Classic controller as the other 2 control schemes aren't that comfortable.
  
  For online, it will take a while for you and other players to start a match. Here's how this 
 works: Choose your character, select a stage, and wait for other players while kicking around the 
 sandbag until the battle begins. And since this is a game for a Nintendo console, Friend Codes 
 are in this game which is still a problem by many Nintendo players. And you only have a few letters 
 to use as your username. I like the idea where when you go against Anyone, your name won't appear, 
 for protection reasons. When playing this game online, I can see what everyone says about matches 
 having lag problems. When playing a match or two, there will be slowdowns and short freezes during 
 heated matches. Despite this, it is still fun to play. In Friends mode you can add commented taunts 
 when going against your friends. You can also have Brawl updates where you can play others' submitted 
 stages, players' photos, and even videos of players around the world. There is Spectator mode, 
 but I didn't care much about that (Is Nintendo trying to make people to gamble in real life with 
 this mode?!!!!)
  
  CONCLUSION
  Brawl is by far the best in the series. Despite the long load times and online issues, the game 
 makes up for it in the huge amount of content that has been scrunched together in one disc. Many 
 will declare this as the Wii's "Best Game", but I would say that it is one of "Nintendo's greatest 
 games in recent memories". Now that it is Nintendo's fastest-selling title in their company's history, 
 the Smash Bros. series will continue to keep us gamers well entertained till the very end. Live 
 and fight within your soul cause the Brawl is ON!!!
  
  See Ya!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SM42
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  Okay, I would like to emphasize to you, the reader, how much I wanted this game. See my avatar? 
 It's Chief Mendez from RE4. Know how GameStop had that deal where you trade in two Wii games and 
 you get a discount on SSBB? I traded in RE4. Yeah. So, I fought the hoard of fan-boys to get my 
 fresh, crisp copy of Super Smash Bros. Brawl. Was it really worth trading in one of my favorite 
 games?
  
  The Good:
  
  Subspace Emissary (adventure mode) is inventive and the nearly perfect! I've completed it and I 
 have to say that the entire experience was great and the cut-scenes: amazing (I don't even have 
 to add "for the Wii') .
  
  The characters are plentiful and, for the most part, all fight completely differently. Snake is 
 probably the most inventive out of the group by throwing grenades, shooting missiles, planting 
 landmines, and even hiding under his trademark cardboard box. I could tell you about all of the 
 characters, but I'll leave that to GameSpot.
  
  The sound is excellent with remixes of songs from all of the character's games. The My Music system 
 is awesome and an intuitive way to make sure you don't have to listen to crappy music (not that 
 much of it is crap, most of it is awesome) .
  
  Final Smashes: incredible.
  
  The online play is good, with mostly lag-free play (the lag was probably because of my crappy wireless 
 anyway) . You can go online with friends using Friend Codes for more play options or you can connect 
 to random people with limited play options. Also, I have to say that this game has the best online 
 "seeking" screen I've ever seen. You basically beat the hell out of Sandbag while you wait. Other 
 than actually brawling online, you can send screenshots, video clips, and custom stages to friends 
 too. You also receive new stuff from Nintendo every once in a while. Yesterday I got this awesome 
 video of someone clearing a Target Smash in 7 seconds.
  
  Oh god! This game has so much to do! There is a huge wall of Collectables for you to unlock like 
 trophies, CDs, and stages, and when you start unlocking them, you get hints on how to unlock the 
 other ones and so on. And they aren't incredibly stupid tasks like "throw a banana peel off a cliff 
 thirty times with Kirby on Green Hill Zone" either like some games for the 360 with stupid achievements 
 (I'm looking at you, Guitar Hero III) .
  
  The custom stage maker is great! You choose the stage size, the background, the music, and then 
 you set the stage pieces to your desire. There are even unlockable stage parts for you to find.
 
  
  The Bad:
  
  There isn't much to put here, but there are problems.
  
  Subspace Emissary is a great experience, but I have to say that it gets pretty repetitive in the 
 last hours. Also, some of the characters just don't work at all for platforming.
  
  Some characters are still somewhat clones of other characters. Though there are slight differences 
 between characters like Fox and Falco, the overall experience is the same. I also can't help but 
 notice that Ganondorf still somewhat mimics Captain Falcon, though they are thankfully very different 
 in the end.
  
  Even though Final Smashes are an awesome addition to Smash gameplay, some of the Final Smashes 
 are just way too overpowered or not on the same level as the rest. For instance, Ganondorf's is 
 unavoidable, while Donkey Kong's is a short walk away from being worthless.
  
  Custom stages are somewhat limited in that you can only set one song for them and you can only 
 use the pieces provided and can't really build anything incredible.
  
  My Music is great, but why can't you set music from one game on another game's stage? I think it 
 would be hilarious to hear Kirby's music on Snake's stage.
  
  
  
  Overall, this is a great game with a lot of great ways to play. I can't wait to stop writing this 
 review so I can go play more of it! Any Wii owner should play this game! I'm glad I traded in RE4 
 for this one! Exclamation mark!
  
  Overall Score: 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssbb_haller
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2008 5:31 am PT
Review:  I got brawl on the Sunday it came out. Finally, after it was delayed like 10 times. It was awsome. 
 all the nintendo characters kickin eachothers animated asses. I started playing adventure mode. 
 it is very in-depth. the main story is there are these r. o. b who are trying to destroy every place 
 in game. they are controlled by Ganondorf and all the other bad characters. all the good guys try 
 to stop them. I wont tell the whole story. there are also other cool features in the game. theres 
 still classic, they have new items, and u can collect stickers. u can also build ur own stages 
 to fight on. U can also unlock trophies and CDs by doing challenges My favorite is the wi-fi. I 
 am on it all the time. There are only a few bad things about Wi-fi. #1, ThE BRAWLS ARE A LITTLE 
 SLOWER. #2, records dont show, so u cant see if u suck (like my cousin) , and #3, when u play against 
 strangers, its timed. I like all the new characters in the game. my favorites are Diddy kong, Snake, 
 and Sonic. My best character though is Samus. Overall, i give the game a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juanjo64_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 12:00 am PT
Review:  I feel a little sad because of the exclusion of this character that have been in my heart since 
 they were included in the las SSB installment. I think this was a BIG mistake, but what could we 
 do?
  
  this game has any thing you could desire to have. It has Wi-fi connection. has many challenges 
 to beat and has a great character list, but why not to have 3 important characters?
  
  the game is simply awesome, you can play whit almost any Nintendo controller, you can make adventure 
 games with your friends, the gaming formula still remains perfect, many additions have been included, 
 also you can get many extras and built you own stage, you can set the soundtrak on any stage. 
 
  
  If just Nintendo remains this 3 characters, this game could get NON JUST A PERFECT SCORE, EVEN 
 MORE!!!
  
  I just prey to God to got Sonic, and Snake, plus the 3 missing characters plus the ones that are 
 in this game into any new installment of El Grandioso Super Smash Bros. thanks by the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Godofnerdyness
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2008 11:26 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Excellent Wii Graphics, New Characters spice up the game, Stage Builder, Online Play, 
 4 Different Control Types, Great Music, Fun Local Multiplayer.
  
  You probably know that Brawl had a lot of hype before it was released. Fans of the series anticipated 
 this new chapter in the Smash Bros. series. Now, it's out, and it is absoloutely stunning. Super 
 Smash Bros. Brawl can be played with the Wii remote + Nunchuck, Wiimote on its side, Gamecube Controller 
 or Classic Controller.
  
  Wiimote + Nunchuck: Pretty hard to use, but it's not that bad once you've masted it.
  
  Wiimote 
 on its side: Works a lot like an NES controller, my personal favourite.
  
  Gamecube Controller: The controller for veterans of the series.
  
  Classic Controller: A little 
 sensitive, but it works okay.
  
  It's very hard to not find the right controller type for you. Everyone has their own favourite. 
 Moving on, Super Smash Bros. Brawl is a platformer / fighting game. It has a different style from 
 most fighting games such as the infamous Street Fighter series. You will be able to choose one 
 of over 30 characters from the Nintendo world, however Sonic The Hedgehog (Sega) and Snake (Metal 
 Gear Solid, Konami) made it into the game as playable characters, and choose a large variety of 
 stages, even stages from Super Smash Bros. Melee. You are also able to make your own stages in 
 a stage editor which is very satisfying for Creative people. You can share your stage online as 
 well, but we'll get into that later. Once you get into a fight, there is a 3 second countdown, 
 then it's gotime. You have your smash attacks, which are usually strong punches / kicks, and your... Let's 
 call them power moves. Each character has their own unique set of moves, and they can differ depending 
 on which way you tilt the analog stick / d-pad. The different moves make the game unique and very 
 fun to play while not being at all confusing. You will need to combine these moves to make good 
 combos and kill your opponent. Instead of life bars, your healt is indicated with a percentage. 
 You start with 0%, but as you're hurt, you will gain percent, and the higher it is, the farther 
 you fly when hit. The goal of the game is to hit your opponent hard enough to make them fly off 
 stage. Whoever kills the most / doesn't lose all their lives / has the most money (on coin mode) 
 wins. During fights, crates, explosives, laser swords, fire flowers, springs, and more crazy things 
 will appear. You can pick these up to help you fight. Lightsabers always come in handy, huh? Two 
 very new items everyone's interested about are Assist Trophies and Smash Balls. Assist Trophies 
 are little capsules that you pick up, break and out comes a character to help you fight. Sometimes 
 you may get a dud Assist Trophy which will give you a character that does nothing to help, such 
 as Mr. Resetti (Animal Crossing) . Mr. Resetti will simply talk and lecture you. Moving on, Smash Balls 
 are glowing spheres that randomly appear out of the blue or from crates / boxes / capsules. Whoever 
 manages to break it will start to glow, and the background will turn very dark. The person who 
 broke gets a "Final Smash", which is their most powerful and deadly attack that has the ability 
 to kill anyone it hits. A few examples...
  
  Marios Final Smash: Mario will shoot a barrage of fireballs at his foes, and anyone caught in the 
 destruction is doomed.
  
  Link's Final Smash: Link will attempt to catch someone in the triforce and put all his strength 
 into multiple slashes. They are also doomed.
  
  Sonic's Final Smash: Sonic activates the power of the 7 chaos emeralds and becomes Super Sonic. 
 The player must fly around as Super Sonic for a short time and try to bump into everyone he can. 
 Anyone he hits will take a serious amount of damage.
  
  The list goes on. As you can see, Final Smashes are not something to joke with. If you get hit 
 with one, it could change the whole match. This game is meant to be played with friends, and having 
 a good time with your friends. Don't play by yourself the whole time... Please, get someone to join 
 you in the Brawl. You will enjoy it much more.
  
  There are different modes to be played: The Classic Mode, which is simply fighting NPC's until 
 you arrive at the final boss. Subspace Emissary is the Story Mode, which is assisted with beautiful 
 CGI cutscenes, fun co-op gameplay, and an interesting story. It will last about 8 hours, but it's 
 a fun ride. All-Star mode is simply seeing how long you can survive without dieing, and then there 
 are events... The game will set you to a task like "Beat Pikachu is 5:00 minutes" or "Don't Die!", 
 etc. These will also keep you occupied for a bit. Then there is multiplayer, and finally, online. 
 When you go online, you can brawl with friends you've added with Friend Codes, or fight random 
 people. Don't worry, if you're fighting online and someone disconnects, a computer player subs 
 in for them so you can still play. Surprsingly, I've never seen or heard of any people disconnecting 
 on purpose like in, oh say, Mario Strikers Charged? Fantastic! We have a good community. Online 
 brawls work like normal brawls... But with the intetrwebz :D You can send pre-made messages to friends 
 in the midst of battle using a taunt. Not very good, but it's funny to say "See you next FALL!" 
 when they fall off a stage. You can also submit your custom stages to the online community for 
 people to download. Sweet.
  
  Overall, Super Smash Bros. Brawl is an epic game on the Wii that will go down in history. If you 
 have a Wii, you need Brawl. It's that simple. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brutal_bub
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  I have really enjoyed the game, and continue to do so. Great for the singles and groups alike. 
 Same formula as the first two (some obvious differences, regardless) but the game plays smooth, 
 and adds in a vast amount of content. It really does have great replay value, wether it be adventure 
 mode, classic, or just your typical brawling, also I must include the great addition of Online, 
 now folk such as myself will never feel lonely. If you want a challenging and vast game, look no 
 further. 
  There are, of course, different strokes for different folks, and this game really can reach out 
 to all audiences (although it may be a little intense for the elderly mind you) . To sum up a few 
 different types of gameplay, there is standard battles (fully customizable) , adventure, online, 
 challenges (single or co-op) , home run game, as well as a few others.
  Now for the disappointing. There really isn't much to say about the negatives except, maybe that 
 i wish they had intergrated more motion sesing controls, even though it may have been difficult, 
 could have been more intuitive that way, and also the online (when it comes to playing with "random" 
 players) is a little shifty, just a little buggy in that sense. Albeit, these are very minor problems 
 for me, and I just added in these little nitpicks to explain why this game does not receive a perfect 
 ten in my book... but don't get me wrong, it is easily 1st or 2nd for the wii in my book, happy 
 brawling 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swrdof1000trths
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 1:09 am PT
Review:  Often is the case that when I'm hyped for something even close to as much as I was for Super Smash 
 Bros. Brawl I just end up being disappointed. This is not at all the case for Nintendo's latest 
 masterpiece. Admittedly, it has its imperfections, but the package is so huge the imperfect parts 
 are such a small part of the game.
  
  Super Smash Bros. has always been among the best in my eyes even after it's weak start on the N64. 
 It was technically unimpressive, but for some reason I just couldn't get enough of it. Then comes 
 Melee, the game which I've put more hours into than probably every single other videogame combined. 
 Melee greatly improved upon the gameplay of the original and made it a much bigger package. There 
 was much more to do, much more to unlock and much more to enjoy. Brawl improves upon Melee in the 
 same vein. 
  
  We'll start out with the famous multiplayer mode. The gameplay hasn't changed much in Brawl except 
 for a hardly noticable drop in the speed of the game. The Final Smash is the big, new game element 
 here. I had my worries about these, it's easy to believe they might break the ever so perfect gameplay 
 of Melee. But don't worry... this is not true at all. The final smashes are a blast to use, especially 
 if you're into trash talking. And with the exception of some of the better ones, they give you 
 no more of an edge on your opponent than a hammer, or a well exectued home run swing, or a good 
 pokeball/Assist Trophy. (One of the new editions to the game.)
  I've got to say, the stages this time are better than ever. In Melee I seemed to choose the same 
 stages over and over again. (Hyrule anyone?) In Brawl, however I have found that every single stage 
 is enjoyable. (Although not a huge fan of the Donkey Kong vertical scrolling one.) And on top of 
 the 40 or so new stages, there are about 10 of the better ones from Melee! And on top of that you 
 can create your own stages with the simple, but easy to use stage builder. The stage builder isn't 
 much, but will add countless hours to the game nevertheless.
  
  As far as characters go, it's one fantastic roster. I found that in Melee, many of the characters 
 seemed immediately overpowered, or underpowered. (Fox, Sheik vs. Kirby, Mewtwo) They brought back 
 almost every veteran from Melee and to my surprise.... every single one of the veterans seems to 
 be perfectly balanced now. Super Armor really is effective on making the bigger characters better. 
 And many of the crap characters from Melee (Kirby, Bowser) are much better than they were before. 
 Sadly though, Mewtwo, Pichu, Roy, Dr. Mario, and Young Link did not make the cut. Well.... it's 
 not all sad. Pichu and Dr. Mario were pathetic attempts to extend Melee's fighter roster, Young 
 Link was replaced by the superior Toon Link, and Roy's one Fire Emblem game was never released 
 outside of Japan. (And he was a crappy Marth clone, sorry fans) . But I did feel a bit sad for the 
 absence of Mewtwo. He had his own moveset which is more than you can say for some of the characters 
 still in the series. I assume he got cut because he sucked which is too bad, but Lucario makes 
 an ok replacement. The around 15 new characters in the game aren't quite as balanced, but all are 
 welcome with open arms. Except R. O. B. He kinda wastes the spot of an actual character. 
  
  The single-player part of the game is still not on the same level as multiplayer, but it's getting 
 there with every installment. Classic mode, Allstar mode and Event matches return, but the big 
 mode here is The Subspace Emissary Adventure. I know this mode has been controversial and I mostly 
 agree with what everyone has to say about it. It should have been better than it was. Lemme rant 
 here: SSE could have been so much more if they handled it better, with all the Nintendo series 
 meshing into one world it could have been amazing, but instead they decided on generic character 
 and level design. It's too bad, it would have been cool to see metroids flying around the research 
 facility, or a Pak E. Derm stopping Yoshi from advancing. I think the level with Donkey Kong and 
 the barrels was alright, but I can't say the rest of the platforming warrants much fun. With that 
 said, I enjoyed this mode very much on the first playthrough. You won't always be platforming, 
 many of the bosses are a blast (Ridley!) and the cutscenes are hillarious, and surprisingly epic. 
 I'm not gonna be going back to play it much, but I loved it the first time for those reasons.... and 
 it's like 9 hours, one of the most amazing side modes ever. 
  
  There's just so many things to mention about this game, I'm not sure I can do it, but I'll try. 
 Among other things you're able to record and replay matches under three minutes long, unlock... a 
 lot.... okay... There seriously a ton of stickers and trophies, 300 songs (The music is fantastic! 
 10/10) , 12 characters, all secret stages, secret assist trophies, and even secret stage builder 
 parts to unlock! It's crazy! I havn't even mentioned the stadium with all the target tests, and 
 cruel brawls, or the homerun contest and boss rush mode. God, i hope that's everything. This is 
 the longest review I've ever written.
  
  Gameplay 10/10. It's Super Smash Bros. What else would I score it? The Final Smash=Huge bonus.
 
  
  Graphics 9.5/10 The graphics may not be all that much a leap over Melee, but the character models 
 look much better as well as stage design. The Subspace cutscenes are beautiful to the eyes.
  
  Sound/Music 10/10 I nominate Super Smash Bros. Brawl for winner of the best compilation of 
 music in a videogame ever award. You'll find everything from the Theme of Love to the Ice Climber 
 theme song.
  
  Value 10/10 Are you kidding? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IgotNoGoodName
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  simply hard to put the controller down. causes great laughs and hours of game play it wont be out 
 of my wii anytime soon. custom levels and online play with a massive character roster (some being 
 questionable as to being in the game *cough* snake*cough*) its a great finish for smash bros plenty 
 of levels items and smash ball adds a whole new element. with use of 4 different controllers theres 
 no way you cant find a style suitible for you. but like everygame theres a flaw. they took out 
 a few characters i'd like to keep like kid link and mewtwo. and if its an end they could have thrown 
 in some more villians and the demos be a bit longer than 30 seconds to 3 minutes.... i wanted to 
 see knuckles with sonic personally but thats just me but i loved this game and if you havent yet 
 im going to urge you GET THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rexCo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Perhaps the most anticipated game of all time, Smash Bros. Brawl has been on every Nintendo fan's 
 most wanted list for some time now. With delay after delay, expectations grew and grew for the 
 sequel to Smash Bros. Melee, the top selling GCN launch title, and until now, reigning party-game 
 champion. 
  
  Usually when things are hyped this much, they never live up to the expectations so many place on 
 it. Brawl, however, delivers on every level, and blows all of your expectations out of the water. 
 Not only is the character roster more balanced than ever, it's also vast and incredibly enjoyable. 
 35 characters in all, and almost all of them are their own unique self. Even the "clone" characters, 
 of which there are few, have many modifications to change the play style between them greatly. 
 For example, Fox and Falco. Fox is slightly faster, but Falco is heavier and has a quicker jump, 
 as well as a very different deflector shield that completely changes the way you play defense. 
 This may not sound like a lot, and at first it may not even seem it, but once you delve into Brawl's 
 simplistic yet surprisingly deep and strategic fighting, you may find yourself thinking otherwise. 
 
  
  And if you're a Melee champ and expect to rock at Brawl right away, think again. Brawl does an 
 incredible job of keeping the same core gameplay intact from its predecessor, yet changes enough 
 to feel almost completely new. I'm a Captain Falcon user myself, and I found my timing and play 
 style failing horribly at first, simply because I was playing like I was in Melee. It didn't take 
 long, however, for me to hone my skills and get used to the speed and other miscellaneous changes. 
 
  If you're worried about the changes over Melee, don't worry; the game actually requires more skill 
 than before (I would say) as thing like timing and strategy play a bigger role. For example, one 
 can no longer simply use Captain Falcon's air-knee and expect anyone who touches it to go flying 
 off the stage like they did in Melee. This time around, you have to time the knee to make direct 
 and fatal contact with your opponents. Though I was kinda disappointed by this, it is probably 
 for the best in order to keep the roster balanced. 
  And what a roster it is. Additions such as Ike, Snake, Wolf, Meta Knight and Wario not only make 
 this the largest cast seen yet, but easily the most unique and enjoyable. Snake and Ike are my 
 personal favourites, and are absolute joys to play. Snake, despite being very hard to master, is 
 so unique and creative that you won't care if you're losing or unable to get any of his moves to 
 work. Wario's antics are bound to make you pause the game occasionally so that you don't get KO'd 
 while you're laughing. 
  Most of the old items are back, like the Home Run Bat, the Hammer, the Heart Containers, etc. Even 
 the bumper, which didn't show up in Melee, is back. 
  Some of the new items in the game tend to get a little crazy, and you may find yourself turning 
 select ones off if you're into more strategic fights. Things like the Smash Ball however, will 
 likely remain on your list of "on" items.
  Ah yes, the Smash Ball; the "Final Smash" enabling item that floats around the screen until it 
 gets damaged enough. You know, I remember when many talked about the "Smash Ball" being the first 
 item they'd turn off, because the Final Smashes would ruin the game. And I admit, I thought they 
 were going to be automatic kill special moves that required no skill to use and froze everyone 
 in their place during its animation. But the real thing is, the Final Smashes almost make the game. 
 As soon as a Smash Ball appears on screen, the fight changes almost completely. It's a race to 
 smash the smash ball and absorb it's power so you can use your Final Smash. However, not all Final 
 Smashes can be activated and work right away. Many require timing or some kind of strategic use, 
 and not all are easy to use. I won't ruin them for you, because almost all of them are a joy to 
 use, but I will say that they do not disappoint. 
  My only small beef with them are that some are easier to use than others, and some are just plain 
 way more powerful. Also, some characters (the "clones" we spoke of) have the same FSs... But worst 
 comes to worst, you can always choose to turn the Smash Ball off. (But likely... you wouldn't dream 
 of it) . 
  
  And if you're going it solo, fear not. Brawl has you covered with tons of modes including a 7-8 
 hour minimum adventure mode with beautiful and hilarious cutscenes. The story itself isn't fantastic, 
 but you're kidding yourself if you care in the slightest about a Smash Bros. plot. Returning are 
 the Classic and All-Star modes, which offer tons of brawls with varying scenarios. The "Event Matches" 
 are back, which put you in certain scenarios with certain characters , and the Stadium returns 
 with the home run contest, multi-man brawls, and target smashing (and another unlcockable mode) . 
 
  There's even some co-op play now for certain modes like adventure and all-star, as well as a new 
 slew of co-op only event matches. 
  
  To top it all off, Brawl hias a ridiculous amount of options, more than you could ever think possible. 
 Like Melee, there's a ton of trophies to collect. But now there's also stickers that you can collect 
 (and use in Subspace Emissary to improve your abilities) , a stage editor, a RIDICULOUSLY sized 
 soundtrack to die for (and the ability to pick which songs appear most commonly on their corresponding 
 stages) , FULLY customizable brawls (pick your HP in stamina, or cross all the different types of 
 brawls such as "fast/slow" with"super sudden death/stamina") , ONLINE brawling, and a million other 
 things that I won't even try to mention.
  
  Now online is nothing amazing yet, cuz the servers haven't been fixed, Basic Brawl doesn't always 
 work (plus finding people is a pain) , and Friend codes suck ass, but it is brawl, basically meaning 
 it can't not be fun. And it is fun to taunt with your custom phrases and rock a few friends without 
 having to hassle them all over to your house; plus, seeing as lag isn't terrible now despite the 
 fact that the servers haven't been given any attention AND they're getting uber raped by so many 
 users, I think the future of brawl online looks damn good. 
  And it will be a long future; people will be playing this for years and years to come. 
  If you 
 own a Wii, pick Brawl up right now; it's one of the most enjoyable, deep and unique titles on the 
 market, and easily the best party game in video gaming today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuIsSiUl
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  While most of the same-old, random, horribly designed games are still coming and going, Brawl made 
 its late-but-just-perfect entrance to let everyone in the gaming world know that the game came 
 here to stay. The 3 delays are a far away bad dream now that we have the game in our hands (well, 
 at least for some of us) . 
  
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl's objectives are basically the same as in the past games: Beat the ... soul 
 out of your opponent. The controller scheme for SSBB is so wide that the possibilities for controller 
 options seem endless.
  
  The amount of time that you get to spend in the solo mode is incredibly long. You will come to 
 think that you have only played for 20 minutes after being stuck in your television for hours!
 
  
  The roster came in a big surprise. Even though many people were expecting a plethora of characters, 
 we got 35. However, taking into account that we got 21starter characters which include a lot of 
 New comers - each and everyone of them with a unique moveset - plus characters from the past games 
 with retouched moves and on top of everything, we got 14 secret characters with the majority of 
 them having unique movesets as well (Final smashes do not count) .
  
  However, the character quality and uniqueness is not everything there is to this amazing game. 
 The visuals of the Stages are also something incredible. With an unimaginable quantity of stages 
 plus the option of building stages at your expense, SSBB will keep you entertained in its wide 
 variety of classic, twisted and new stages.
  
  To make the story short. Brawl is simply one of those games that came here to be played for many 
 years. It easily surpassed its predecessor and hopefully will be surpassed by a forth generation. 
 Let us simply cross our fingers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_mask_91
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2008 8:18 pm PT
Review:  After over six years of waiting, Brawl has finally arrived. Many delays moved the release back 
 and back... gamers believed Brawl might never come, but it has and Brawl is one behemoth of a game 
 that you will not want to pass up.
  
  Compared to Melee, the core gameplay is still the same. You have your special moves, standard attacks, 
 jumping, shielding, all the usual Smash Bros things. New to the series are the assist trophies, 
 which are essentially an extension of the poke ball. Assist trophies can drastically alter the 
 outcome of a game, allowing a new player to take out an experienced Brawler. Smash balls are the 
 real deal in terms of changing the outcome of a battle. As soon as the screen zooms out and players 
 see the color changing orb, fighting immediately stops and migrates towards the smash ball, and 
 then the real fight begins. Once a character uses their final smash, utter destruction is unleashed 
 upon the stage... and anyone unfortunate enough to be on it.
  
  All 35 characters are very unique, even the 'clones'. Even 'clone' characters are different enough 
 from their 'original' that one it would be difficult to call them clones. One notable feature about 
 all of the characters is the amount of balance. You will never have to worry about higher tier 
 characters, at least as much as in Melee. Stages have an equal amount of variety. Between the 41 
 standard stages, there will be a stage for everyone. But the player doesn't have to rely on HAL 
 for their stages, they can make their own now with the Stage Builder. The stage builder is a very 
 simple function and works very well. The only let down is that there is not much variety in what 
 you can do with it due to the few amount of parts available, even with unlockable parts. 
  
  Brawl's single player experience is second to none for a fighter. The Subspace Emissary, which 
 replaces Adventure mode from Melee, is about 8 hours long. Most of the SSE is platforming elements 
 which are actually quite annoying to do, and sometimes even tedious. SSE does have beautiful cut 
 scenes that, although there is no voice acting, move the story along smoothly. Overall SSE is just 
 the quickest way to unlock all of the characters. Of course players can still use Classic mode 
 to unlock characters in the usual Smash Bros fashion. Players do the usual 12 stage battles with 
 Target Smashes, Giant battles, and metal battles along the way. The Stadium also has some new features 
 such as Boss Battles.
  
  The 'Vault', as it's called in the game, contains hours of fun. In addition to the previously mentioned 
 Stage Builder, the Vault also contains libraries of stickers and trophies, albums of your photos, 
 replays of your videos, and the Coin Launcher game, which is kind of like pinball. The Coin Launcher 
 is surprisingly fun. The Vault also has a list of challenges in the game that will reap rewards 
 such as stages, songs, or trophies. Finally, the Vault also contains what are called 'Masterpieces', 
 which are short demos of older games like Star fox 64 or the original Donkey Kong.
  
  Brawling with a group of friends is about as great as it gets. Most of your Brawling hours should 
 consist of battling friends. Nothing beats destroying your best friend's evil girlfriend with a 
 final smash, or turning some odd situation into a photo and sending to a friend through wi-fi. 
 
  
  Speaking of wi-fi, Brawl makes some use of it too. Battling with friends is pretty simple. Simply 
 make a room and one of your pals can jump in. Your friends list shows whether your friends are 
 online, and if they are, whether they are battling or just hanging out, you'll know. Most of the 
 battles I had did not have lag, or at least enough to make too much of a difference. Battling with 
 anyone, however, is not as easy. Connecting with people is generally pretty quick, but the problem 
 is the actual battle. Battles are so laggy and slow that they are almost unplayable. The only good 
 thing is that all players lag equally, so one player won't be zipping around while another is still 
 stuck somewhere. Spectator mode is fairly simple, and could become addicting. You are presented 
 with the Brawlers and you bet coins on who you think will win. Afterwards you watch the battle 
 and then you are presented with your earnings, provided you guessed correctly. 
  
  WiiConnect24 is also used for Brawl in some neat ways. Everyday, HAL sends out a user created stage 
 to everyone who is subscribed to the Smash Service. The stages are hand picked and are usually 
 going to be either unique or just really fun to play on. After the next day's stage is sent, the 
 previous one is deleted as to not take up space on your Wii. Sending photos and stages to others 
 also uses WiiConnect24.
  
  Brawl's graphics are clean and crisp. While the game doesn't use bloom lighting excessively, the 
 game is quite nice to look at. Characters are well detailed, bu other objects such as stages, assist 
 trophies, and pokemon are generally rather ugly, and lack the detail that the other characters 
 have. 
  
  Brawl's sound is absolutely amazing. There are over 300 tracks of songs that can either be unlocked 
 or are available from the beginning. Not only that, but all of the music comes from the games that 
 are featured in Brawl. I have yet to see a series from Nintendo that is not represented in some 
 way in Brawl. Just from the music alone, Brawl can provide someone with hours of enjoyment. 
  
  As a game, Brawl is about as good as it gets. Brawl is packed with just about everything you 
 could want in a game, let alone a fighter. Balanced characters, wacky stages, destructive items; 
 all of these are the core of Brawl. No game on the market will deliver the same experience Brawl 
 does with a group of friends around. Brawl is finally here and delivers one hell of an experience 
 that everybody will love. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: theoldcow12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is one of the best games on the Wii by far. The only thing that it is lacking 
 really is the Multi-player online. The options for non friends are horible. You have nothing to 
 change at all. It has to be a 2 min. match. There are no rankings, no voice chat, no stock, no 
 game names. It really brings it down because you don't know who your fighting or your starts from 
 it, at least for everyone else to see. I do not know if Nintendo can patch this or something but 
 they really should, at least if they open it up for more options in you don't have to do 2 minute 
 games, and can change it. Possibly even game rooms. But its the Wii and not enough memory will 
 prevent this, and other things.
  
  That though is my only flaw in this game. Everything else is awesome and done perfectly basically. 
 Only thing would be add more characters and make them more different but still, its amazing. Must 
 buy for Wii Owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guyguyguy1234
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Well . . . . . . . . . . It 's finally here! ! ! ! ! ! And it took me 3 days to beat SSE and earn 
 all of the levels and characters. But this is one of the best games ever. (Its tied with Trauma 
 Center Second Opinion) This game is great. If you hate pikachu, kirby, ice climbers, and ever other 
 annoying Nintendo character, here is your chance to beat the crap out of them. Give them the name 
 of your teacher and turn on only final smashes. You can do it. This game is way beyond perfect, 
 If you dont like this. You need to be taken to the hospital. The graphics are great the gameplay 
 is great everything is absolutely flawless - IF YOU HAVE A GAMECUBE CONTROLLER! If you dont. I 
 would give this a 9.0. I hate hate hate hate hate hate hate hate hate hate hate hate hate hate 
 hate hate hate hate hate hate hate hate hate hate hate hate hate hate hate hate hate hate hate 
 hate hate hate hate hate hate hate the wii remote so much. I could not even get past the menu. 
 Luckily I have 4 GC controllers. Anyway back to the review. I love everything, online, level creator, 
 levels, Items, characters, modes, SSE. Everything. So buy this right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AK_the_Twilight
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  It's been a long, long road for Super Smash Bros. since its humble introduction back in 1999. The 
 crossover craziness inducted into Nintendo's gaming family was immediately one of the most original 
 and enjoyable fighting games on the Nintendo 64, proudly announcing how great four-player fighting 
 systems can be. Gamers all over the world were hooked, finally being able to settle the score behind 
 who is the number one Nintendo character. Go forward to 2001, when the superb sequel Super Smash 
 Bros. Melee hit stores. Melee was easily one of the greatest games in history, thoroughly chronicling 
 years upon years of Nintendo nostalgia into one game. An improved single-player, a slew of new 
 characters, and a tremendous amount of modes and unlockables made Super Smash Bros. Melee a true 
 hit. If you had a Gamecube, you had to be darn sure that Super Smash Bros. Melee was part of your 
 collection. The legacy of Melee only escalated from 2001 to 2006that is, until Nintendo showed 
 off its newest console dubbed the Revolution, with a promise of a new Smash Bros. saga in the works. 
 Smash Bros. mastermind Mashiro Sakurai and his crew tantalized gamers everywhere with beautifully 
 rendered environments, brand new characters, all while slowly leaking out surprises for the brand 
 new Smash Bros. Fans everywhere counted the days and nights till the release of the brand new Smash 
 Bros. and after about six years in development, the third game in the critically acclaimed fighting 
 game series has hit the Nintendo Wii: Super Smash Bros Brawl. Is it the Wii's crowning moment?
 
  
  In case you're new to the Smash Bros. universe, the game isn't a traditional fighting game. Instead 
 of a health bar, Smash Bros. counts on the damage percentage. The higher the percentage, the easier 
 it is to reach your goal: knocking your opponent off the level. Knock them off the screen and earn 
 a point, all while keeping your characters on-screen. Also the characters have only two attack 
 buttons: one for weaker, faster moves, and the other for special attacks. Different techniques 
 like throwing, jumping and such can be assigned to buttons, which brings up a really good thing: 
 the controls. Nintendo showed off Brawl with a grand total of four different control setups: The 
 Wii Remote on its side, the Wii Remote and Nunchuk, the Classic Controller, or a Gamecube controller. 
 Not only that, but you can even assign button maps to your liking. I personally found the Gamecube 
 controller to be the easiest, especially considering how popular Melee was, but the other control 
 setups worked well. The fact that you can customize your own personal controls is great for those 
 who may find some controls archaic, and is an excellent inclusion.
  
  The gist of Super Smash Bros. Brawl is cramming a ton of Nintendo characters into a level and watching 
 them beat the crap out of each other, all while avoiding traps, using items and showing off signature 
 skills. The roster is astoundingly comprehensive. You get Mario, DK, Link, Samus (with her new 
 Zero Suit appearance) , Kirby, a slew of Pokemon, and many, many more. Even a couple of third-party 
 fighters appear for good measure. Each character has a select group of techniques appropriate to 
 their gaming history. Mario can shoot fireballs; Link has his classic Spin Attack. It's so cool 
 to see the nostalgic value of Nintendo's characters, but making a remarkably accessible, though 
 impressively deep combat part of the game is a high mark for fighting games everywhere.
  
  One of the biggest changes was the inclusion of the Subspace Emissary mode. Apparently, Nintendo's 
 Super Smash Bros. land is under attack by a mysterious Ancient Minister and his crew of Primid, 
 creepy dark creatures who're out to fight the many Nintendo fighters. It's up to the characters 
 of Smash Bros. to save the day. The Subspace Emissary is an odd mix of classic side-scrolling stages 
 and the Smash Bros. fighting system. The goal in each level is to battle Primid and reach the door 
 to the next boss. It's not an entirely deep system, though: the Primid come in some diverse shapes 
 and forms, but usually attacking them relentlessly is enough. Clever diversions include the ability 
 to transform enemies into Trophies and looking for hidden music, items, and trophies. The boss 
 battles in the Subspace Emissary are epic and fun, especially since some of the bosses are immediately 
 recognizable even to the newest of newcomers. Regardless, the Subspace Emissary is a fun diversion 
 from the traditional Brawl setup, especially since you can fight Primid with two-player co-op.
 
  
  But don't worry, Smash faithful: the Subspace Emissary isn't the only mode. Apparently, Nintendo 
 is taking the "Halo 3" approach to things: instead of innovating the gameplay significantly, they're 
 throwing down a tremendously satisfying amount of modes and options. You get the Classic mode; 
 climb-the-ladder stages to reach different enemies, and finally meet up with the Master Hand again. 
 Not only that but you have the famous Home-Run Contest, lengthy Multi-Man Brawl, and Target Tests 
 (although there are fewer than in Melee) . Besides Classic mode, these events can even be played 
 co-op with a friend, and replays of the rounds can be sent to a friend over the Wii's online network. 
 But one of the biggest inclusions is the ability to take the fight online via Nintendo's Wi-Fi 
 Connection. The Wi-fi support lets you send videos and snapshots to friends, along with being able 
 to battle online. If you have a friend's Friend Code, you can battle with open rules you decide, 
 though anonymous battles have no names and are always either Team Battle or a simple two-minute 
 Time battle. Considering how unpredictable Smash Bros. is, Brawl's online is actually a good and 
 balanced challenge; you really don't know who's going to win most of the time, and unpredictable 
 battles are a truly common occurrence.
  
  But that's not to say that there aren't some changes to gameplay. One of the most interesting is 
 the Smash Ball, which if attacked enough and cracked open by a certain character, the character 
 can perform a huge attack dubbed the Final Smash. Like the movesets, the Final Smashes are different 
 for each character and can range from a super-powerful blast to a full-on transformation. The Smash 
 Ball not only looks great, but it creates a great balance between the characters. Each Final Smash 
 is incredible, but never impossible to avoid. It just takes timing. Another cool new addition is 
 a simple, but cool Stage Editor to produce custom arenas. Also, the developers took out Wave-dashing, 
 probably to balance the game. But Brawl manages to still remain balanced and deep all at once. 
 Anyone can jump into the fray and battle thanks to the accessible controls and excellent characters. 
 You'll no doubt recognize some familiar faces and see how well each one can obtain smashing victory.
 
  
  Super Smash Bros. Melee was the definitive party game. Things didn't get much better than battling 
 multiplayer challenges with up to three other people. Brawl is no different. With such comprehensive 
 abilities, characters, and items, Brawl is an astoundingly complex game, and is best played with 
 friends. Those arguments of which Nintendo character is best can be put to rest; players can make 
 up free-for-all matches, team battles, collect trophies and stickers, and even Special Brawl with 
 customizable options. But besides simply battling, there are trophies to collect, stickers to equip 
 with in Subspace Emissary, comprehensive records for score, and even demos of classic Virtual Console 
 titles to round out one of the biggest collection of gaming goodness in history.
  
  Although the graphics don't compare to the bright and impressively designed Super Mario Galaxy, 
 Brawl has a beautiful presentation. The stories of the Subspace Emissary are told in stellar full-motion 
 cutscenes. Seeing Diddy Kong team up with Fox is a great sight, as are the many other odd alliances 
 hidden in the game. Battles run at a great clip, even the online play. The different bosses and 
 characters animate so well, you may need to pause the game just to see the detail. It's amazing, 
 and considering that you can pause and take snapshots in game, it makes the graphics look even 
 better. But it's the music that really proves a sense of epic scope. Many of the original composers 
 of the different series collaborate to form some grandiose scores unlike anything seen before. 
 You also get some great remixes for some battles and some effective sound effects as well. Nintendo 
 even lets you select your favorite songs for their respective arenas and determine how often a 
 certain song plays, so you don't have to listen to the same song over and over again. Entering 
 a climactic battle is complimented with a huge and epic score, and the characters' respective themes 
 are present. There's usually more than one musical theme that can be played during a battle, and 
 it's a great inclusion to such characteristic fighters.
  
  Pros
  + Incredible roster of diverse characters
  + Stellar Wii graphics and sound
  + New changes 
 to gameplay balance are great
  + Online multiplayer is (mostly) smooth
  + Subspace Emissary mode is great and well-presented
  + Astounding number of different modes
 
  
  Cons
  - Load times can be a bit long
  - Anonymous online is a bit restricting
  - No more Special Bonus awards
  
  Super Smash Bros. Melee was one of the greatest games of 
 all time. With so many characters, modes, and abilities, it helped sell Nintendo's Gamecube system 
 and secured a name for the chaotic fighting series. Quite honestly, I didn't think Brawl would 
 be able to surpass it. But don't worry: Brawl delivers. It's crammed with so many options, modes, 
 and characters, it's downright incredible. It is quite literally one of the greatest fighting games 
 ever made. From the smooth and customizable controls to the depth of the fighting system itself 
 combined with the huge number of characters and levels, Brawl makes a fighting game with such a 
 definitive style, unforgettable charm, and tremendous amount of options that you'll be hooked immediately. 
 If you have a Wii, this is the game for it. Nintendo and Mashiro Sakurai took extreme care of Super 
 Smash Bros. Brawl and it shows. Brawl stands high above its predecessors and shows a game with 
 so much energy and content, giving you just more Smash spirit than ever before. If you're looking 
 for a nominee for Game of the Year 2008, then Brawl has all the components required for such a 
 title, and then some. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmil1991
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl is one of the biggest games ever made, period. There are an amazing amount 
 of things to do in this title, everything from decent single player mode called the Subspace Emissary 
 to epic multiplayer bouts. If you're a Nintendo fan, then Brawl is for you.
  
  The SSE may seem small as a normal single player, but in reality, it is an add-on. Most everything 
 can be unlocked by player through it, with a few extras in the events and such. It's big for an 
 add-on: it took me over 7 hours to finish with 80%. Other single player activities in Brawl include 
 events, home run contests, multiman brawls, target smash, and the classic single player mode. There 
 is a lot to do here, and it will take you a long time to tap into everything.
  
  But the real meat of the game is in the multiplayer, which is amazing. The tried and true Smash 
 Bros gameplay continues in Brawl: percentage meters increase until you smash your opponent off 
 the screen. And beating your buddies to hell with Nintendo paraphernalia is still fantastic.
  
  Smash Bros keeps getting better and better, and it is definitely among the top games on the 
 Wii. With online capability too, it has everything Melee needed in a sequel. Brawl is great and 
 it deserves the highest marks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skie7
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  SSBB (Super Smash Bros Brawl) is an extremely-fun beat 'em up that stays true to its roots. The 
 addition of adventure mode with the occasionally humorous video adds much to the single-player 
 experience. They've done a pretty good job of addressing the "clone" characters this time around 
 so that while some characters share moves, they're not carbon copies. Online multiplayer is a great 
 addition.
  
  Despite the game being so great there are some flaws...
  
  Adventure mode can become a bit monotonous. In addition, it would've been nice to have a sticker 
 optimizer. I got to the point where I'd spend thirty minutes or so trying to make the best use 
 of space for the stickers I obtained in the previous level. I'd have preferred to be able to select 
 from a list of stickers that'd fit on the character and be able to simply click an "Add" button. 
 The last half of the game I very rarely added stickers and only to the characters I preferred to 
 play.
  
  Online, while great, is flawed. I really wish Nintendo would've put more thought into their online 
 service. Using friend codes is a pain, and online is in need of a microphone (even if it's only 
 usable with people on your friend list) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -White_Knight-
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 6, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  Behold! Super Smash Bros. Brawl!!! It has been one of my most favorite fighting series since Melee. 
 Sadly, in these days, no Wii game could ever pull me away from Xbox Live for more than a few days... 
 It's not the game, it's just the console. Wii has a lame online system compared to the 360. Back 
 in the day when there was no Xbox Live, I played Smash Bros until my fingers fell off! If Brawl 
 was on the 360, I'd play it as much as I do Halo 3!!!
  I have a brother and a sister, so it's not like I don't have anyone to play Brawl with; but being 
 challenged by a world of players is too addictive to trade for a few three-player matches of Brawl.
 
  
  Anyway.....
  
  Almost everything remains in Brawl that Melee had. Still just knock your opponents off the screen 
 to win... But hey, if it ain't broke don't fix it!
  
  However, Brawl isn't all of a recycled game. Home-run contest, Multi-man brawl, Target smash, and 
 Event matches are all 2-player co-op! There's even an incredibly lengthy adventure mode, (also 
 2-player co-op!)
  
  In the adventure mode, or Subspace Emissary, you kill hordes and hordes of evil things while working 
 your way through different worlds. The difficulty ranges from easy to intense. You can add a little 
 strategy to it by equipping your character with stickers, but it really doesn't go much deeper... 
 you just keep killin' a horde of evil... "things". Don't get me wrong though, I'm very happy to 
 have it in place of Melee's adventure mode!
  
  They've added a stage editor in, too. Since a competitive brawl can be fought in the most primitive 
 of arenas, good stages can be built by even your grandma! However, special obstacles go no further 
 then a conveyor belt and a falling box, so it will challenge your creative ability of thinking 
 outside the box. They could've added a few more obstacles in here, and maybe the choice of having 
 water beneath your stage... ehhh well.
  
  The character selection is about the worst thing in the game. Being a Link lover since "The Adventure 
 of Link" on the NES makes me sick every time I play him! They ruined his boomerang! It "pulls", 
 (only if your lucky) your opponent to you instead of doing damage on the return! His bow is crap, 
 too! You can't tap B to launch an arrow at a small distance anymore!!!
  After being spammed (until dead) by Pit's arrows, I hate Link's bow even more, (and I hate Pit 
 more by the day!) They could've at least let you aim where Link is going to fire!
  
  And what good is the Triforce Slash?! Isn't this the TWILIGHT PRINCESS Link? WHERE IS THE WOLF 
 TRANSFORMATION?! Although after seeing Donkey Kong's pitiful Final Smash, it makes me thankful... 
 p. s. (How the hell is anyone supposed to survive a Landmaster attack??? No fair I tell you!)
  
  (I'm glad they put Snake in there. I've never been a Metal Gear fan, but he adds a great way 
 to play Smash Bros.)
  
  Ahhhh... mmm k. Well, the music is as amazing as ever. Being a musician myself, I just sit there 
 sometimes and listen to the work and care put into each song. :) Having a check list to unlock 
 songs, trophies, ect. is an addictive replacement for gamerscore on the 360 as well.
  
  You know what sux though? NOT being able to play your created maps with friends over Wi-Fi!!! I 
 was completely shocked when I found out!!! I also hate the fact that you can only have ONE person 
 on the Wii while playing a 
  "With Anyone" Wi-Fi match! (Thankfully you can have more people on the Wii while playing a "With 
 Friends" match, but actually getting friends is a pain in the @$$.) Getting maps from other unknown 
 players 'round the world is crappy. You just set your Wii to receive new maps, replays, and snapshots! 
 I thought there would've been a list that everyone could contribute to, and when people wanted 
 maps, ect. then they could've picked from the list!
  
  Overall this game isn't a great as the Dojo made it sound, and it's about the only good Wii game 
 out there. (Having no online leaderboards really decrease the addictiveness...)
  
  The only other mentionable bad thing about Smash Bros is Luigi's Final Smash. Y'know, Luigi did 
 have his own game... it's called Luigi's Mansion. Shouldn't he have some attack that involves his 
 ghost vacuum??? 
  p. s. (Why couldn't we have Waluigi, Toad, or more Sonic characters instead of Falco and Wolf?!) 
 I wanna play Silver!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam4321
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  this is the best game ever. i suggest you buy this game no matter wat. this is awesome. this game 
 will last for about 10 years. this is awesome. i am best at snake. i know that he is slow but i 
 know how to use him really good. for anybody dat has wi-fi see u at eh tournaments. if ur not in 
 one join 1. this is the best game ever!!!. trust me u will not be bored wit this game ever. buy 
 it so everybody can play wi-fi. u will not be disappointed. c'mon get brawl! everybody get brawl. 
 how did gamespot rate this game 9.5 it should be 100.0 no matter 
 
  i dont get how they rat it  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tennis12master
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Ever since Sunday, March 9 when this game came out, all I've been thinking is "Smash Bros." This 
 game brings all the goods from the past games, and more, including the famous, "Final Smash". The 
 Final Smash is a devastating attack that does tons of damage depending on which character you're 
 using. (For example, Samu's final smash is she unleashes the zero laser, an attack that engulfs 
 nearly the entire stage, and more than half the time is an instant K. O. for anybody who gets caught 
 in the flurry) . But, to get a Final Smash, players have to scramble to break open a glowing sphere 
 called the smash ball, which once broken, allows the player to press the B button (depending on 
 which controller variation you're using) and unleash their Final Smash. Another amazing feature 
 is the Subspace Emissary, the new adventure mode. The Subspace Emissary consists of roughly 9-10 
 hours of game play, and is a great addition to Smash Bros. Although the levels are fun, I was always 
 wanting some of the levels to end so that I could see one of the 30,40+ cutscenes, which by the 
 way are perfectly created, and a blast to show off to your friends. (Which I've done just) . This 
 game is a must-have for any Nintendo fan, Smash fan, or anybody who has a Wii in general. Even 
 casual players can get into the game and possibly whoop veterans. Although I'd love to write about 
 the other modes of gameplay, it's just not possible to list every mode, item, and character in 
 one review, because this game just has such a darn long list of things to do! So, my Smash Brethren, 
 go out there, buy a copy of Super Smash Bros. Brawl, and I'll see YOU online!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XDXDXDXDXDXDXD
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is incredible and blew the charts off with its fantastic multiplayer and um, well, EVERYTHING!!! 
 Fantastic sequel to Melee. Over 35 characters to choose from in all, 41 new stages, some stages 
 from Melee, and a lot more you can make yourself with the all new Stage Builder. The Subspace Emissary 
 is a fun adventure mode with breathtaking videos superb gameplay as you fight the shadows creatures 
 and battle bosses like Petey and Riley from Metriod Prime. The graphics are great on this game, 
 and they never mess up even for a second. The music sounds great as you listen to songs from games 
 like The Legend of Zelda and Ice Climbers and so on. There are tons of trophies, challenges, and 
 stickers to collect, that just doing that will keep you busy for a long while. Brawl is one game 
 that you just won't down once you pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendofreak_2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  After over six years of waiting, Brawl has finally arrived. Many delays moved the release back 
 and back... gamers believed Brawl might never come, but it has and Brawl is one behemoth of a game 
 that you will not want to pass up.
  
  Compared to Melee, the core gameplay is still the same. You have your special moves, standard attacks, 
 jumping, shielding, all the usual Smash Bros things. New to the series are the assist trophies, 
 which are essentially an extension of the poke ball. Assist trophies can drastically alter the 
 outcome of a game, allowing a new player to take out an experienced Brawler. Smash balls are the 
 real deal in terms of changing the outcome of a battle. As soon as the screen zooms out and players 
 see the color changing orb, fighting immediately stops and migrates towards the smash ball, and 
 then the real fight begins. Once a character uses their final smash, utter destruction is unleashed 
 upon the stage... and anyone unfortunate enough to be on it.
  
  All 35 characters are very unique, even the 'clones'. Even 'clone' characters are different enough 
 from their 'original' that one it would be difficult to call them clones. One notable feature about 
 all of the characters is the amount of balance. You will never have to worry about higher tier 
 characters, at least as much as in Melee. Stages have an equal amount of variety. Between the 41 
 standard stages, there will be a stage for everyone. But the player doesn't have to rely on HAL 
 for their stages, they can make their own now with the Stage Builder. The stage builder is a very 
 simple function and works very well. The only let down is that there is not much variety in what 
 you can do with it due to the few amount of parts available, even with unlockable parts. 
  
  Brawl's single player experience is second to none for a fighter. The Subspace Emissary, which 
 replaces Adventure mode from Melee, is about 8 hours long. Most of the SSE is platforming elements 
 which are actually quite annoying to do, and sometimes even tedious. SSE does have beautiful cut 
 scenes that, although there is no voice acting, move the story along smoothly. Overall SSE is just 
 the quickest way to unlock all of the characters. Of course players can still use Classic mode 
 to unlock characters in the usual Smash Bros fashion. Players do the usual 12 stage battles with 
 Target Smashes, Giant battles, and metal battles along the way. The Stadium also has some new features 
 such as Boss Battles. One major complaint is that the loading times for everything is generally 
 long enough to annoy someone, but not long to do anything during them.
  
  The 'Vault', as it's called in the game, contains hours of fun. In addition to the previously mentioned 
 Stage Builder, the Vault also contains libraries of stickers and trophies, albums of your photos, 
 replays of your videos, and the Coin Launcher game, which is kind of like pinball. The Coin Launcher 
 is surprisingly fun. The Vault also has a list of challenges in the game that will reap rewards 
 such as stages, songs, or trophies. Finally, the Vault also contains what are called 'Masterpieces', 
 which are short demos of older games like Star fox 64 or the original Donkey Kong.
  
  Brawling with a group of friends is about as great as it gets. Most of your Brawling hours should 
 consist of battling friends. Nothing beats destroying your best friend's evil girlfriend with a 
 final smash, or turning some odd situation into a photo and sending to a friend through wi-fi. 
 
  
  Speaking of wi-fi, Brawl makes some use of it too. Battling with friends is pretty simple. Simply 
 make a room and one of your pals can jump in. Your friends list shows whether your friends are 
 online, and if they are, whether they are battling or just hanging out, you'll know. Most of the 
 battles I had did not have lag, or at least enough to make too much of a difference. Battling with 
 anyone, however, is not as easy. Connecting with people is generally pretty quick, but the problem 
 is the actual battle. Battles are so laggy and slow that they are almost unplayable. The only good 
 thing is that all players lag equally, so one player won't be zipping around while another is still 
 stuck somewhere. However with everyday that passes, the online seems to become less laggy that 
 before, so it would seem Nintendo is trying to fix that. Spectator mode is fairly simple, and could 
 become addicting. You are presented with the Brawlers and you bet coins on who you think will win. 
 Afterwards you watch the battle and then you are presented with your earnings, provided you guessed 
 correctly. 
  
  WiiConnect24 is also used for Brawl in some neat ways. Everyday, HAL sends out a user created stage 
 to everyone who is subscribed to the Smash Service. The stages are hand picked and are usually 
 going to be either unique or just really fun to play on. After the next day's stage is sent, the 
 previous one is deleted as to not take up space on your Wii. Sending photos and stages to others 
 also uses WiiConnect24.
  
  Brawl's graphics are clean and crisp. While the game doesn't use bloom lighting excessively, the 
 game is quite nice to look at. Characters are well detailed, bu other objects such as stages, assist 
 trophies, and pokemon are generally rather ugly, and lack the detail that the other characters 
 have. 
  
  Brawl's sound is absolutely amazing. There are over 300 tracks of songs that can either be unlocked 
 or are available from the beginning. Not only that, but all of the music comes from the games that 
 are featured in Brawl. I have yet to see a series from Nintendo that is not represented in some 
 way in Brawl. Just from the music alone, Brawl can provide someone with hours of enjoyment. 
  
  As a game, Brawl is about as good as it gets. Brawl is packed with just about everything you 
 could want in a game, let alone a fighter. Balanced characters, wacky stages, destructive items; 
 all of these are the core of Brawl. No game on the market will deliver the same experience Brawl 
 does with a group of friends around. Brawl is finally here and delivers one hell of an experience 
 that everybody will love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scourgealicious
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Well, the 2 year wait is over and Brawl finally came out about a week ago (I got my copy at the 
 GameStop midnight launch!!!!) , and I'm sorry I didn't review this sooner, but anyways...
  
  Brawl is obviously the best in the Smash Bros series, the best Wii game out there, the possible 
 best Nintendo game ever, and should be the best game ever! Master Chief, screw you!
  
  Basically, it's much like Melee as far as Classic, All Star, and some of the mulitplayer goes... but 
 the Adventure Mode: Subspace Emissary has a storyline to it, and it's great! There were many surprises 
 (not like I didn't know them thanks to youtube) and the Subspace Emissary was pretty fun. Obviously 
 though, the multiplayer is the best part of this. Whether you're fighting a cpu or a friend (possibly 
 an enemy) , it's still awesome. The new character listing and stage list is great! I'm glad to see 
 Sonic, R. O. B, Toon Link, Wolf, Pit, King Dedede, and Meta Knight, and everyone else is awesome 
 (not a huge Jigglypuff fan...) . Final Smashes are awesome and sometimes kinda funny, like Dedede's 
 Waddle Dee Army or Luigi's Negative Zone (that Final Smash is so weird) . 
  
  Anyways, I recommend this game to everyone, and if you don't have it, get it! NOW!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blizz_kid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Easily my most anticipated game of this year, I looked forward to Super Smash Bros. Brawl since 
 it was announced. Now that it's out, I'm extremely impressed and will be playing this game for 
 a long time to come.
  
  First: the character roster. There are a LOT of characters to master here, and each of them is 
 unique and have their own strengths and weaknesses. Returning characters from Melee have all been 
 tweaked somewhat, some to the point that it's not noticable, others to the point that its a new 
 challenge to remaster them. Each character I find is fun to play for one reason or another.
  
  The soundtrack absolutely blows my mind. There is almost TOO much music here, and all of it 
 is awesome, whether it be nostalgic, fully orchestrated, or a superb remix. There's a ton of music 
 from each of the franchises represented, and even a ton of music from games not represented. The 
 soundtrack is nothing short of perfection, allowing you to control which songs you want to hear 
 and how often you will hear them.
  
  The gameplay is solid, offering many ways to customize how you want to play the game. Whether it 
 be a GC controller, Wiimote, Wiimote + Nunchuck, or Classic Controller, each has customizable controls 
 and options to best suit your playstyle, although it will take some getting used to the Wiimote 
 and Nunchuck. There's some sort of "tripping" element to this game, which can cause your character 
 to fall down at what seems to be random times, but it's nothing more than a minor nuisance here 
 and there.
  
  Graphics are superb for the Wii, always looking sharp. Some of the backgrounds are somewhat undetailed, 
 but you won't be paying attention to them much becau... LOOK OUT! SAMUS IS FIRING HER ZERO LASER!
 
  
  Ah yes, Final Smashes. They are excellent, not overpowered, and extremely satisfying to perform 
 and watch. Each Final Smash is unique, offering it's own strengths and weaknesses. Mario's, for 
 instance, is best used in a close quarters, multiplayer melee, while Ike's may be better suited 
 to a 1v1 match. 
  
  There are insane amounts of collectibles, items, trophies, and all sorts of goodies to keep you 
 occupied for a long time to come.
  
  This is THE game to get for the Wii. There's so much to do, and so many characters to pummel (and 
 get pummeled with) . If you have a Wii, you should have Brawl, it is that simple. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  After a ridiculously annoying wait, coupled with several heart-breaking delays, Super Smash Bros. 
 Brawl is finally here. Is it even really necessary to introduce this game? I think not, because 
 millions of people, myself included, have been excited about this title's release ever since the 
 Wii was announced. Brawl had a lot to live up to, and I'm happy to say that for the most part, 
 it completely meets any expectations you may have had of it. 
  
  Brawl is a very simple game, actually. It's a fighter, and a very basic one at that -- or so it 
 first seems. You can move, jump, shield, and use two different attack buttons. All told, you play 
 this game with four buttons and a control stick. But don't let that deceive you, because Brawl 
 is a surprisingly intricate game for those who really get to know it, and the more you play the 
 more you'll realize that the combat options in Brawl are nearly limitless. Sure, you've got your 
 two basic attacks, taken care of with the A and B buttons. But then you can execute Smash attacks, 
 by smashing the control stick left, right, up or down and hitting the A button at the same time. 
 You can execute combos with the A and B buttons, or perform specific attacks while in the air (aptly 
 named aerials) . There are a wealth of fighting options and what makes Brawl so awesome is the fact 
 that a complete newbie to the game can have as much fun with it as somebody who played Melee for 
 hundreds upon hundreds of hours *cough*. 
  
  Another big aspect of combat, aside from your skill at the game, is the items that are randomly 
 dropped onto the stage. There are at least fifty items, from all sorts of different titles, and 
 all have specific purpose in battle. Some, like the Maxim Tomato, will heal some of your damage, 
 while others, like the Hammer, will allow you to damage your foes. There are tons of items and 
 can be used in various ways. Sure, you could just toss a bomb at a foe and deal some quick damage, 
 but why not wait to deal some damage yourself, grab him with a tap of the Z button, toss him up 
 and then throw the bomb, hitting him and almost certainly sending him off the course? The items 
 allow for plenty of strategy and add tons of depth to the game. The biggest new item is probably 
 the Smash Ball; when you deal enough damage to it, you start glowing and can activate your character's 
 final smash with a press of the B button. These are quite powerful attacks that usually result 
 in a KO, so when a Smash Ball appears on the screen the game usually changes from an all-out brawl 
 to a race for the item. It's a pretty cool way to affect the pacing of the title and it's an inclusion 
 that I personally like. 
  
  The fighting is, naturally, the core of the game, but what honestly makes Brawl such an awesome 
 game is the wealth of options that the title offers you. Everything, and I mean everything, can 
 be customized. For example, there are four different control options, each of which work perfectly 
 fine and allow you to take advantage of whatever controllers you own, and also allow players to 
 really customize how they play. While I find the GameCube controller to be preferable, simply because 
 I'm used to it after playing Melee with it for several years now, the Wii controls (Wii remote, 
 Wii remote with Nunchuk, and Classic Controller) all work fine. Thankfully, there is no attempt 
 at motion control whatsoever; to be honest, Brawl is far too frantic a game to try and tack on 
 some gimmicky controls, and I'm thankful that the dev team did not try to do so. 
  
  In terms of customization, the biggest aspect to really making Brawl your own is the character 
 with whom you fight. Several fighting titles that I've played suffer from the fact that aside from 
 appearance, every fighter essentially has the same moveset, with a few mild variations. Nothing 
 could be further from the case with Brawl, as each and every character (actually, there are some 
 exceptions) is quite distinct and possess their own attributes and moves. The exception here is 
 that sadly, the dev team has not quite done away with clones: that is, characters who are nearly 
 identical. Some examples? Fox, Falco, and Wolf are basically the same, as are Link and Toon Link 
 and Ganondorf and Captain Falcon. There are some mild differences, I suppose, but it beats me why 
 such a lazy implementation would exist in a game that clearly pumped full of raw awesomeness. It's 
 obvious that the developers made Brawl the best they could, and so adding clones seems to be a 
 bit of a step backward. 
  
  The other significant improvement upon Melee is the stages: both in terms of quality and quantity. 
 Their were several duds in Melee (although that's really just my opinion, I guess -- everybody 
 has their own favorites) , but just about every course in Brawl is a blast to play on. They vary 
 not only in size but also in complexity. That is, there are some courses that are relatively simple 
 (for example, Battleground or Eldin Bridge) , whereas others have tons of structures, destructibility, 
 and even interaction with the course (for example, on Halberd, bombs will occasionally be shot 
 at you) . Of course, the stages are also helped out immensely by the fact that they are proficient 
 graphically, not only in terms of design but also in the fact that they simply look awesome. 
 
  
  I've been discussing the wide range of options that Brawl has to offer, so I think it best that 
 I continue with that train of thought: the next logical step is, naturally, game modes, and this 
 is another place where Brawl shines brightly. Probably the mode you'll be spending the most time 
 with is Brawl, where one to four players can duke it out over local multiplayer. Select your character 
 and stage, set rules (stock/time, which items to play with, etc.) and start fighting. But there 
 are also tournament set-ups for multiple players, and some surprisingly strong single-player offerings. 
 You can play Classic mode, which allows you to choose a character and progress through a series 
 of battles. But you can also work your way through Subspace Emissary, a story mode, and it's a 
 significant step up from Melee's Adventure Mode. It chronicles every character in the game and 
 their random incidents, then relates them all to an alien invasion and, in the end, has them teaming 
 up to combat a common foe. It's surprisingly lengthy, around 8 hours, and is a pretty awesome addition, 
 though it's certainly not a good exclusive reason to purchase the game (that, of course, would 
 be multiplayer) . Also, Subspace Emissary is where the graphics really get a chance to shine, because 
 there are plenty of awesome cutscenes that take full advantage of the Wii's graphical capabilities. 
 
  
  And in terms of both graphics and music, Brawl is one of the most impressive games on the Wii. 
 The visuals easily rival those of Super Mario Galaxy (in my opinion, the best-looking game on the 
 Wii) , and they never suffer even when you've got a lot of frantic action going on at once. The 
 soundtrack is probably even more impressive, if possible, as just about every single bit of music 
 in any good Nintendo game makes an appearance in Brawl. The collection of music is absolutely awe-inspiring, 
 and any fan of Nintendo music is going to instantly fall in love with Brawl. The title's presentation 
 is awesome and really speaks to the amount of care and attention to detail that the developers 
 have given to this game. 
  
  Once you start playing Brawl, you're not going to stop for a long time, simply because there is 
 so much to do here. There is a myriad of unlockables, including additional characters and stages, 
 trophies, stickers, and soundtracks (that's right: you can collect all the music that's played 
 in the game and then listen to it at your own leisure!) . These are attained by playing a certain 
 number of versus matches, usually, but can also be gained by fulfilling specific requirements. 
 For example, to unlock Sonic, you'll have to beat classic mode with ten different characters -- 
 these sorts of requirements are common and because you're working toward a specific goal, you won't 
 even notice the hours fly by. The trophies and stickers are really awesome because they represent 
 memorabilia from just about every good video game ever published by Nintendo. These can be gained 
 by completing random achievements in some of the minigames, so to speak (multi-man brawl, home 
 run contest, and target practice) or from the shooter minigame. This minigame puts you in control 
 of a rotating gun which shoots coins that you receive for everything in the game (for example, 
 every time you play a VS match, you'll receive coins) . Trophies will slide across the screen, and 
 if you shoot them a few times they're yours to keep and will be stored in your trophy collection. 
 But on the board there are also enemies and missiles, and shooting these will sometimes give you 
 coin bonuses or award you with stickers, which are kept in your sticker book. Any Nintendo fanatic 
 such as myself could spend hours just flipping through the book of Nintendo-related stickers or 
 perusing the trophy collection. 
  
  Finally, Brawl features the much-welcomed addition of online play, though it still uses those blasted 
 Friend Codes that Nintendo insists upon implementing. Swap Fcs with somebody and you can instantly 
 start a game -- up to four people can play online. Friend matches are quite fun, and I've already 
 spend countless hours playing against some of my friends online. On the other hand, the random 
 matches, where you're paired up with somebody else looking for a game, don't work very well at 
 all. I'm fairly certain that this is an issue because of the ridiculous number of people trying 
 to access the Brawl servers, but the matches are laggy and often get randomly cut off -- when you 
 can even get a game going, that is. Voice chat would have been great, but online is fun nonetheless 
 and a great addition to a great game. Once you get bored of all the single player offerings of 
 Brawl (it'll take a long time, admittedly) , online is sure to keep you playing. 
  
  I don't think I can say much about Brawl that's not already been said, so I'll be brief: Brawl 
 is an incredible game. It certainly has lived up to my expectations, which in itself is a feat 
 because I was expecting Brawl to be incredible. It certainly delivered and I can say with confidence 
 that it's certainly one of the best titles on the Wii, and shares company with such titles as Metroid 
 Prime 3 and Super Mario Galaxy. There's absolutely no reason not to own this game, and if you own 
 a Wii you need to go out and buy it. There's tons of play value and you'll surely be playing Brawl 
 for a very long time to come. And that's a good thing, because it is one hell of a game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpikeSpiegel92
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about the plans for this game I was pretty excited but did not expect it to 
 be as good as it is. I was surprised to find that not only had the multiplayer part of the game 
 been expanded on but also the single player aspect. This is a surprise because after the failure 
 that was Super Smash Bros. Melee I thought that the series would gradually decline into a worthless 
 burnt out state of obscurity. But after seeing some pre release reviews and hearing the plans for 
 the game I had hope that this could be a revolutionary game of the likes of witch had not been 
 heard of to date but I was still scepticle. Upon buying the game I was sure that it would at least 
 be noteworthy. After an hour of playing it i was enthralled by the flawless mechanics of the game 
 not to mention how many characters there were, the animation, the single player aspect, and the 
 ability to create your own level. As a quote to Smokeyd123 "Thats were I'm living in. Yep I'm living 
 in the world of brawl......" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: musicisamazing
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Brothers Brawl is definitely one of the best games out for the wii. If you're a fan 
 of the series or like fighting games in general, you should go out and buy this game today. The 
 game features a large amount of new material. The character roster is almost twice as big as the 
 one in Melee, however, almost all the characters feel well-balanced (with the possible exception 
 of Pit) Another addition is the Smash Ball, a glowing Smash Bros. logo that floats around the screen. 
 The player who breaks it open will be rewarded with an extremely powerful final smash attack. Adventure 
 mode has been replace by a lengthy 1 or 2 player campain called The Subspace Emissary. SSE includes 
 long platform levels and 10+ boss battles. Other new features include a stage builder and online 
 play.
  My one complaint about SSBB is that is doesn't use the wii remote at all. The stage builder is 
 impossibly frustrating to use because you need to move each piece over as many as 50 squares, square 
 by square, with the joystick.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiifan31
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  The most amazing series of all smash bros i played. I has a variety of different places to enjoy. 
 The places changes the more you play. Many new characters join the game such as metal knight, king 
 dedede, wario, pit. The online is good but you need to add friends to play with them. You can created 
 stages to have some fun with friends. Its a big difference compare to smash bros melee. It has 
 like 35 character to check out. My favorite is mostly pit since he uses his wings to save himself 
 from dying. Smash brawl has amazing new items like the smash ball is one of those items you have 
 hit to used your special move. then there's the smoke ball to blind your enemy from attacking. 
 On the game you can finally swim but for a short period of time, 10 sec. Overall this game is amazing 
 and it's for everyone who wants to have fun and people should definitely buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thattotally
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  Well of course not!!! This game, in no way comes with any sort of dissapointment!
  
  There's just so much bang for your buck in this game that it's unbelievable. The prestigious fighter 
 that everyone has been anticipating since the very release of the Wii is finally out in stores, 
 ready to be picked up by every type of gamer there is.
  
  For those who do not know the obvious, SSBB is a fighter featuring First Party Nintendo characters 
 (and to an extend, 3rd party ones) that duke it out on multiple an interactive stages that are 
 just pure fun. The diverse list of characters each have their own special moveset and abilities, 
 which is to say, all have their certain strenghts and weaknesses, and it is pretty much balanced 
 out between them all.
  
  The core of the game is batling with friends or people online, choosing stages, having 4 characters 
 on the screen, and making up tournaments. While that alone can have seemingly infinetly replay 
 value, there is actually much more to the game. Playing alone means choosing between classic mode 
 or "adventure" mode (which has it's own name now) that is rightfully a game onto itself, with fabolous 
 cutscense that keep you at the edge of your seats and such. The return of Event Matches is also 
 a welcoming site that will keep you trying to complete them again and again. Aside from that there 
 are lots of extra goodies that you as a gamer must view yourself to truly be impressed.
  
  All in all it is a given that this game should be owned by all people, even those that dont have 
 a Wii yet, for it is a chance not to be missed. The only problem that stops it from getting a full 
 out ten score is the rare percentages of the copy not working, due to, apparently, slightly faulty 
 Wii lenses. Other than that hopefully nothing will stop you from full out enjoying this game, from 
 it's style to graphics to most of all, epic gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shacrob
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  Time goes really quickly, and I still can't believe that 9 years have passed since the release 
 of the original SSB. I was 9 years old and I was really impressed to see and play this game, because 
 I couldn't beleive that Samus, Link, Mario, and Pikachu along with others were in it. I remember 
 the many hours of gameplay me and my little friends had with this game, and so much fun! This game 
 was a true success. And what it makes it so good is the piece of life that each game (Super Metroid, 
 Ocarina Of Time, Mario 64, etc) delivered in your heart and you never forget.
  
  And now we have this Masterpiece, Super Smash Bros. Brawl, for those ho have played the games of 
 the characters you will love this game. The game delivers the same gameplay mechanics as always, 
 but there are more interesting things in the game, like the hundreds of songs you can listen to, 
 and the stage builder, where you create your own stage and put your favourite music on it (I don't 
 think we could ask for more, and this is why I'm very happy about it) . The new graphics are right, 
 and I wouldn't care if they were like the classical, It will always be a fantastic game. Then the 
 Story Mode (SSE) it's wonderful, I like the thing that they all unite to confront the evil powers. 
 
  
  As for a multiplayer game, this game rocks, and I would say it is the best console multiplayer 
 game ever. A lot of replay value, and you will not get tired to play it in the future.
  
  Many Melee players were pissed off with this game at first because it's not the same speedy and 
 flashy as Melee, but what i have to say to them is that be patient and learn the curve of this 
 terrific gameplay, I get over it and now I am a very happy Ike, Diddy and Zero Suit Samus user.
 
  
  I have this game since the 5th of February (japanese version, yeah, I couldn't wait :) ) and have 
 played badly ^^it feels me up with joy and excitement, I'm very glad of this game. And for all 
 the nintendo gamers that played with Mario, Samus, the Kongs, Sonic, Link etc. when they were a 
 child and love it, you know what I'm talking about. 
  
  So... Let's Brawl!
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndYOU
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  Brawl is one game that will be played for years to come, due to its high amount of enjoyability. 
 It sticks to the old formula that Melee and original Smash Bros. players are used to, by just letting 
 you grab your controller and beat the crap out of your opponents, and offers more. The Subspace 
 Emissary is very good addition to Brawl, although it does have a few meaningless and confusig spots. 
 Although graphics don't mean much to me, Brawl looks quite impressive. The Stage Builder, Stickers, 
 Masterpieces, and replay are minor features that enhance the game to a higher level. The Special 
 Brawl matches are great, and offer a wide array of match combinations. Online is great addition 
 to the game when you want to play against real people, and what's better is that there is very 
 little lag. The bottom line is that Brawl is the best game on the Wii, and it is a game that will 
 keep interest for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigi-Fan-Mike
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 7:06 am PT
Review:  Graphics = 10.0
  
  The best on the wii... very solid character models, stages and everything else.
  
  Sound = 10.0
 
  
  Lots of memorable soundtracks that is just like icing on the cake for this game. You'll find yourself 
 sayingHey, SONG OF STORMS!!! That was in ocarina of time!!! "
  
  Gameplay = 9.5
  
  Great gameplay, I can't say it's flawless though... a few characters aren't balanced as well as 
 others. But otherwise it's A-OK
  
  Story = 9.5
  
  The SSE is the greatest story mode and pretty much only one in all the SSB games. With tons of 
 re-see-able content and around 10 hours just to complete it, you'll have your hands full!
  
  Replay Value = 9.5
  
  Yeah, you'll come back to play this game time and time again. One 
 of my favorite games of all time.
  
  
  
  
  
  Pros:
  
  - Great story
  - Great gameplay
  - Fabulous visuals 
  - Graphics take command, looks and feels great!
  - 
 10 more characters than thier last game
  - More stages with some included from the old game
  - Create-A-Stage mode is very nice
  - Bring 
 back All-star including other old modes
  
  Cons:
  
  - Some characters aren't balanced as well as all the others
  - Tournament mode is still a pain 
 to understand how to set up
  - Story mode's levels; some were not needed to be included.
  
  So in all I give Super Smash Bros. Brawl a 9.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  Okay, I'm not going to waste time trying to explain what Brawl is all about, or describe the Subspace 
 Emissary. It's all been said before. If you still don't know the basics about this game, stop reading 
 this review, and go check out IGN's Smash Bros. World. What I will offer here are my opinions about 
 most of what the game has to offer.
  
  Let's start with the action. The controls in Brawl are, in my opinion, tighter than they've been 
 in either Smash Bros. game before it. You also get the much appreciated bonus of setting up your 
 own control scheme. There are the four basic set-ups, of course, and there's likely to be at least 
 one that will appeal to every player. I opted for the Wii-mote sideways thing, myself, and am very 
 fond of it. But being able to set each button on your preferred controller just the way you like 
 it really opens up Smash Bros. that much more. It's not only an option to make every player comfortable, 
 it's an invitation to make the game your own.
  
  So, you've got that. But what else sets Brawl apart from Melee? Well, the characters, as well as 
 some other various extras, certainly breathe new life into Smash Bros., and if you're wondering 
 whether the overall package is enough to justify another game in the series, well, it is. Some 
 of the returning favorites have some minor tweaks and / or additions, so there's something new 
 there to find, of course, but the newcomers really do offer a whole lot of value when it comes 
 to mixing up the series. Characters like Meta Knight and Pit will be a delight for new players 
 finding their feet, though Diddy Kong, Snake and Olimar will offer a nice challenge to more seasoned 
 vets.
  
  Production values? Aside from one or two occasional areas in the Subspace Emissary (SSE) that look 
 a bit PS2 / Cube-ish, the game is really gorgeous. Every single boss battle  and the boss battles 
 are excellent in SSE, by the way, and there are plenty of them  looks fantastic. Looking at Brawl 
 is, for the most part, like watching a Pixar flick. That ain't too shabby for the Wii. Music and 
 sound effects, too, are a sweet treat, and there are hundreds of songs to unlock. You can also 
 create your own music settings for Brawl stages, and that's a very welcome idea to throw into the 
 mix.
  
  Brawl is awesome, Brawl is great. When IGN called the game "Nintendo-branded heroin," they were 
 right on the money  it's damn fun to play, and damn hard to put down. However, that doesn't blind 
 me to the game's shortcomings. The biggest of them being no motion-control gameplay. Actually, 
 let me rephrase that: almost no motion-control gameplay. If you use the Wii-mote / nunchuk control 
 configuration, you can set the Smash to be a "waggle." Yippie! But that's it. There's no other 
 motion control in this game. Sure, I know every single Smash fan is going to reply with a resounding, 
 "I don't want motion control in Smash! Smash was made to be played with a traditional controller!" 
 Whatever. It's the Wii, and more motion-control gameplay should have been offered. I'm glad they 
 gave players the option to use traditional controls, but they made it pretty much the only viable 
 option.
  
  The other major problem with Brawl is online play. Where is it? I think I've managed a total of 
 two matches out of the hundred or so attempts I've made to play online. I've got a broadband connection, 
 an official Nintendo WiFi USB connector, and all my other online Wii channels work without a hitch. 
 That said, 95 percent of the time, I get nothing but error messages when attempting to play online 
 matches. No way. They delayed this game, then they delayed it again. When all was said and done, 
 Nintendo delayed it once more. Don't tell me you can't get the online right at this point. I don't 
 want to hear it  not for the most anticipated Wii game ever  not for a $50 game, in which the 
 online is perhaps the main new feature. It's a huge faux pa, and I'm pissed off!
  
  There, I vented. I love Brawl. I can't get enough of it. My youngest son spends the most time with 
 the game, but he's one of those fanatics for it. I'm not great, and he wipes the floor with me 
 every single time we Brawl. However, I keep coming back for more because the game is simply magical. 
 But it's not perfect. It's got some major flaws. The good thing is, those flaws are separated from 
 all the other aspects of the game, so though you might not be able to enjoy those other expected 
 elements, the game will still offer you an incredible amount of fun for your buck.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavidRswii
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2008 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Well here is the most anticipated game in 2008 everyone jump for joy becaus this game is absolutley 
 awsome over 27 stages,35 characters, and many many modes including the best mode... Wi-Fi connection. Not 
 only that but there are also trophies to collect, stickers, and CDs as well. Nintendo is now including 
 Solid Snake and the ever so loveable Sonic. Adventure mode has gotten a major make over since Melee 
 and it suceeds you can unlock every single character by playing the Subspace Emissary which is 
 esstential for people who don't want to play many Brawls. This is the best looking game on the Wii 
 by far. Gameplay is fun... really fun you will b eplaying this game for many hours or mabye months 
 if not years to play this game. One of the new modes in this game is online which is so lag free 
 you don't notice the difference, another new mode is of course the subspace emissary which is a 
 great adventure mode for a fighting game it least maybe around 8-10 hours with the classic mode 
 that everyone knows and loves.
  
  PRESENTATION:
  An impressive lineup of stages and characters, including some from third parties. Amazing soundtrack. 
 Gorgeous cut-scenes. Simple menus. Long front-load and lacking few online options
  
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Looks like an enhanced version of Melee. Improved character models and backgrounds. 
 Everything runs in 480p, 16:9 and at 60 frames. Even so, the graphics definitely lack detail in 
 some areas
  
  
  SOUND:
  One of the best soundtracks ever created. Sound effects, meanwhile, are perfectly punchy and well-suited 
 to the characters and environments
  
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Tight control, more balanced character move sets, new final smashes and more. Multiplayer is so 
 good I can't stop playing for more than 1 or 2 hours
  
  
  LASTING APPEAL:
  Destined to be played for years thanks to spectacular offline and online multiplayer modes. One 
 of the great four-player games of all time.
  
  This is a must own for anyone who owns a Wii do your self a favor and buy this game I give this 
 game the highest rating of a 10 out of 10 the best game on the Wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dman712
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  All of your favorite characters are back to battle one another once again as Super Smash Bros. 
 Brawl returns for the Nintendo Wii! With an all-new, expanded single-player story mode, a stage 
 editor for creating your own levels, and online multiplayer support through Wi-Fi, Smash Bros. 
 is bigger and better than ever before. The cutscenes are awesome! They are so good that Nintendo 
 could make a movie that would be the biggest hit! In SSBB the sound is superb. The graphics are 
 so good when I'm playing it looks like a cutscene. This is the BEST Wii-Game ever, and if you don't 
 believe me you've never played any video  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vashkey
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to beleive it's been over seven years since Melee made it's debut on the Nintendo Gamecube. 
 Especialy to those who played it on a regular basis. And fortunately Brawl retains the qualities 
 that made Melee such a long lasting game experience.
  
  Gameplay wise Brawl is pretty much the same as melee. Nothing major has really been added or subtracted 
 from Melee's winning formula. To some I'm sure this may be a dissapointment, but this is a game 
 really hard to hold a grudge over it. It's still a blast to play in multiplayer. It's still an 
 easy to pick up and play game and the gameplay is still deep enough to provide a difference between 
 the pro and the noob. Not only that but the characters are much more balanced now. No longer will, 
 Shiek, Falco and Fox be stealing the show. It's anyone's game now. I would like to note one thing 
 about battling that has changed a tad. Remember how in the past two games, when a Poke'ball showed 
 up everyone would drop what they were doing and go run for it. Well, theres more of it this time 
 around. We now not only have Poke'balls, we now also have assist trophies which summon a character 
 from any number of Nintendo's game series (or MGS and Sonic) to assist the summoner in battle much 
 like the Poke'balls do, we also have a ship from air ride that you battle for three pieces to use 
 it in battle that can kill anything it touches (but it's only there for an instant) and the Smash 
 ball that allows a player to use a super finishing move. While their all nice additions to the 
 game they can really break the flow of battle Fortunatly these item can be turned off if you don't 
 want them. Brawl has four controller options. Wii remote, Wii remote and nuchuck combo, Wii classic 
 controller and Gamecube controller. Most people will and should stick with the Gamecube controller. 
 The battle system was built for it after all. And if your to cheap to get one or you just can't 
 find one the classic controller works just fine as well. The other control schemes do work and 
 fine as well, but they just arent as comfortable, natural or versatile as the Gamecube or Classic 
 controllers. You can customize the control lay out to so if you don't like the default configuration, 
 you can fix that.
  
  Brawl's graphics are in some ways impressive and some ways not. The game over all look's a bit 
 better than Melee. But on the other hand Melee was a pretty good looking game itself. The characters 
 models are only a small step above what we saw in Melee. But the maps are a leap ahead of Melee. 
 Their certainly impressive. The graphics as a whole are pretty much the best you've seen on the 
 Wii only after Super Mario Galaxy and Resident Evil 4 (ironically) . They don't seem to out of reach 
 from the Gamecube's capabilities, but it's well enough regardless. The game obviously wasnt made 
 for HD though. On a high deff, you see plrny of jaggies if you look closely. But since this is 
 a fast paced game you mostly likely wont spend to much time looking around. And for the cut scenes, 
 they look decent, but they have a distinct look of somthing that was really compressed. Some times 
 it loos more like your watching a youtube video than an actually videogame cut scene.
  
  Probably the most impressive part of the game is it's sound track. The game has so many different 
 tracks it's ridiculous. Some are remade tracks from classics, tracks straight from the source and 
 some made speciffically for the game. But no matter what the case it's always of best quality.
 
  
  Brawl will last you as long if not even longer than Melee did. For sigle player you have The Classic 
 mode and the Sub Space Emissary. The Classic mode is pretty much the same deal as Melee's and the 
 original's classic mode... Hence the word, "Classic". You just run through a series of battle in 
 an arcade fashion. The Subspace Emissary is bassicaly Brawl's Adventure mode. Though this time 
 it's an actual story. Don't take it seriously though, it is a cross over after all. There are some 
 problems here and there though. The mode seems to have an identity crisis. It doesn't know weather 
 it should be a platformer or a midless beat 'em up. You'll be jumping your way though the level 
 when all of a sudden for seemingly no reason the game will force you to beat up some heartless 
 esque enemies before you can progress. And for the platforming part, sometimes things just don't 
 work out as not all the characters feel like they were built for platforming. Some of the boss 
 fights are decent though, but their defifnatly not all to memorable and the last level is the worst 
 one this side of the Library and Cortana. Despite it's flaws though it's deffinatly worth trying 
 and it's nice that it does provide co-op. Luckily though for those who arent interesting, it's 
 not the only means of unlocking the characters. For single player you also have Even matches, which 
 are special challenges where you must do battle with pre set special goals. Theres also the stadium 
 where you can do other special challenges like break the target, home run contest and multi-man 
 brawl. There are other modes you can ulock in single player as well. All-star mode and Boss Battle 
 mode.
  
  We all know Smash is all about the multiplayer though. For local mutiplayer it's much like Melee. 
 It's a 4 player affair. You can customize the rules of battle. You can do coins, stock or time. 
 You can also do special Brawl. This allows you to fight under special status like have all the 
 fighter be giant or have bunny hood to be super fast. Theres also the self explanitory tournament 
 mode and rotation. Rotation is rather pointless. It allows players to take turn fighting based 
 on who wins and loses.... As if we actually needed a mode t odo this. This isn't worth lowering 
 the score or disliking the game or anything. Im just stating it's a rather worthless addition.
 
  
  Online multiplayer is really what you'd expect from the Wii. Inconvenient at times. But Brawl still 
 makes the most of it. You can either Brawl with friends or anyone. In my opinion, with anyone is 
 a complete letdown. You don't even get to know the eames of those you Brawl. Your customized taunts 
 arent usable here and the only options you have are free for all or team battle. You can't customize 
 the rules. With the multiplayer being like this, you might as well be playing against the computer. 
 It is nice though that you can spectate matches and that you can place bets on the winner with 
 coins you've gotten over the course of the game.
  With friends is a bit better. You can use your customized taunts and you can customize the rules. 
 It is a drag that your only given about a minute to change the rules and pick your character though. 
 Besides brawling though, you can also try team multi-man brawl and come run contest. Like all wii 
 games though it shares the down side of having to share ANOTHER friend code as well as not having 
 voice chat. You could call your friends, go on a voice chat apllication like team speak or join 
 a private chat on X-box live to remdy this, but really, the Wii should include somthing like this 
 to make things easier on us and make online mutiplayer more fun.
  Beyond the single player and multiplayer though you can also try and collect tracks, trophies and 
 stickers. Trophies don't really do anything, but im sure some will enjoy collectiong them. Stickers 
 can power up your characters in Subspace Emissary, but beyond that, their just there to collect, 
 much like trophies. And tracks are to be collected so you can listen to them, duh. It's nice that 
 you can control how often you hear them in the stages though. Theres also the masterpieces that 
 you can unlock which are demos of classic Nintendo games that are available on the Virtual Console. 
 And if all that wasnt enough for you, you can also take screen shots from past matches and save 
 matches. Unfortunatly, these screen shots can't be uploaded to a computer and can only be sent 
 to other Wii systems and theres a one screen shot limit per day. Same goes for the videos. And 
 theres a limited level editor , allowing you to build your own maps. And on a daily basis Nintendo 
 will send you levels, screens and vids over Wii connect 24, but unfortunattly you can't save any 
 of it....
  
  Super Smash Brothers Brawl obviously has it's flaws. But much like Super Mario Glaxy, despite the 
 fact the game make very little use of the Wii's unique hardware feature and isnt at all revolutionary, 
 it's still a ridiculously fun game regardless. Unlike Galaxy though, you'll be playing this for 
 years to come. So if you've got a Wii, get this game. Get it now! Theres no better reason to have 
 this console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XExPiReD08X
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Well, lets get right down to it shall we?
  
  Suepr Smash Brothers Brawl is absolutely the best Wii game to date, and I think the best one in 
 the series. I love Super Smash in it's fullness, and I've been playing them since the first Super 
 Smash Brothers came out. I've been playing melee every year until Brawl came out. Most people would 
 think that the first game is always the best in certain series, but Brawl is absolutely incredible.
 
  
  Graphics: Amazing. The improvement from Melee is outstanding. The backgrounds in the stages are 
 beautiful, and the characters also look insanely good. Seriously, it's so good.
  
  Gameplay: IT'S SUPER SMASH. THe gameplay has been, and always will be fantastic. THe gameplay is 
 so much smoother in this game rather than in Melee. Melee it was really choppy, but I started to 
 notice it after playing Brawl.
  
  Sound: The music is insane! The main theme is mad ill. They have this new feature in the game called 
 My Music where you can assign how likely a song will play in a certain board. Unlike Melee where 
 there were about 2 songs per stage, you can have several of songs per stage, and set How Likely 
 they will show up. They brought a lot of old music from old games back such as "The Dark Wold" 
 tune from The Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past, to music such as the "Encounter" theme from 
 Metal Gear Solid. Serisouly, it's great.
  
  Online Play: Okay. I must admit, not one of my favorite topics for this game. Playing with a friend 
 is fun as hell because you can choose different modes to play as, and its a hellofalot less laggier 
 than playing with anybody. The only reason I would suggest someone to play with anybody is if they 
 are mad bored, or it the Level 9 CPU's are too easy for you and you want to look for a more challanging 
 opponent. 
  
  Character Roster: It's gigantic. The characters in this game are great. Unlike Melee where they 
 were cloned characters, for example Mario and Luigi were the same, Fox and Falco were the same, 
 Ganondorf and C. Falcon, Link and Young Link, etc.... In this game all characters are differrent, 
 and they all have their unique abilities. There are no cloned characters in this game.
  
  Stages: The stages are really really really good. They made the stages in this game VERY interactive 
 such as blowing up the walls in Snakes board, to a Low Gravity enviornment in the new Pokemon Stadium 
 2. They are really fun to play on.
  
  Adventure Mode: The adventure mode in this game, aka Subspace Emissionary, is absolutely fantastic. 
 This is the first Super Smash where they actually have an entire story to it where mostly every 
 character comes in. Also, it can be played with Co-op! Thats mad fun as well. It took me about 
 10 horus to beat the Adventure Mode itself, clearing everything. Other Coop modes there are in 
 ths game are Target Smash, Home Run Contest, Events, Adventure Mode, and some secret modes you 
 can play as well!
  
  Reccomendation: Are you kidding me? If you have a Wii and you dont have this game, please go to 
 your doctor for a checkup. This game will last for years to past just as Melee did. This game is 
 the new party game, taking Melee's place. Heck, even Gamespot gave it a great score! Haha, so get 
 this game and have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo1001001
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  It's been 7 years since Melee was released on the Gamecube and it still remains a hit today. People 
 could still be found playing it. It's simple but addictive fighting comes back on the Wii. It's 
 what makes the game so competitive.
  
  As you'd expect, there are many new characters bring the current roster to 35. Each character is 
 specialized in their own way like Sonic with his speed and Snake with his arsenal of weapons. One 
 character is never better than the other as they are all evenly balanced out. You will many characters 
 of past NIntendo titles such as Captian Olimar from the Pikmin series and Sonic the hedgehog from 
 the Sonic series. There are usually some copies in the game such as Wolf, but you'll probably not 
 notice it as there are also a couple of notable differences.
  
  There's also a huge assortment of items as well as some new ones. The most notable one is the Smash 
 Ball. It looks like the Smash Bros. logo, and once it appears on screen, it's a brawl to see who 
 can get it first. It gives you a tremendous attack if you get it. Some characters will transform 
 such as Sonic and Bowser and others will have a tremendous attack such as Mario and Link. Either 
 way, you'll probably want to get to see every character's Final Smashes. Another item is the assist 
 trophy. It's like a Poke Ball, only it summons other characters from past Nintendo and non-Nintendo 
 games such as Shadow the Hedgehog or a Hammer Bro.
  
  There's also 31 new stages in the game. Each of them represent a character like Shadow Moses Island 
 for Snake or Spear Pillar for the Pokemon characters. Many of them are very unique such as the 
 Pictochat stage. It starts on the Pictochat black writing box, but eventually, many shapes and 
 dangerous obstacles are drawn. It's creative and random. 
  
  The graphics are also something. They are possibly the best on the Wii yet. The computer-generated 
 graphics that are shown during the Subspace Emissary look amazing and beautiful. The character 
 models are definately improved from Melee and move realistically. It's great to see Nintendo taking 
 more time into their graphics now with games like these.
  
  There are many options in this game, and it's rare to see this many things in a fighting game. 
 The biggest addition however is the Subspace Emissary. It replaces the Adventure Field in Melee 
 and actually gives it some kind of story. You'll have the same side-scrolling platform stages as 
 in Melee with a couple of challenging bosses along the way. It is repetive however at the later 
 levels, especially the last one where you have to go through all the games levels and fight all 
 the bosses all over again. It should take about 8 to 10 hours to complete.
  
  The old options are back like Classic Mode and All-Star. There is also the Stadium where you can 
 do Home-Run Contests, Target Test, Multi-Man Melee, and the Boss Battle Mode. Home-Run Contest 
 has you hitting a sandbag as far as you can. Target Test has you breaking the targets as fast as 
 you can. Multi-Man Melee is there to test your skills on how long you can survive. Last but not 
 least, Boss Battle has you fighting the 10 bosses with only one life.
  
  You can choose to play this game with 4 different types of controllers. You can use the Wii Remote 
 and Nunchuck, the Wii Remote held like an NES controller, the Classic controller, and the traditional 
 Gamecube controller. The Wii Remote with and without the Nunchuck are a bit awkward and don't control 
 that greatly. The Classic Controller is good, but most people will probably just stick to the Gamecube 
 controller as it has the same controls as in Melee. Also, you have the option of choosing which 
 button does what on any controller.
  
  The game also rewards you with many things. The new challenge mode is there to keep track of your 
 rewards. You can recieve trophies, stickers which upgrade your characters, and Masterpieces. Masterpieces 
 are demoes of the old video games like Super Mario Bros. 2 and Ocarina of Time. You can also unlock 
 music for a certain stage. they are all orchestrated well and have well over 200 songs in the game. 
 With the My Music feature, you can decide how often a certain song plays on a stage.
  
  If you get tired of the stages in the game, you can make your own with the new Stage Builder feature. 
 You can customize a layout with anything you want. You get to choose the size of the stage, the 
 background, and the music. It's an addictive option that lets you use your imagination. You can 
 also send it to friends or submit it to Nintendo where you'll recieve a random stage from them 
 everyday. You can also take snapshots during a game and send them to your friends or submit them 
 to Nintendo.
  
  Multiplayer is a blast in this game. You can play with up to 4 people here. You can choose whether 
 to do Time, Coin, or Stock matches and select which items to use. It's really good and will keep 
 you pretty occupied with friends.
  
  Another new feature is the ability to save your replays of a battle. If it's below 3 minutes, you 
 can save it and watch it or send it to your friends. It works great, though would've been better 
 if it didn't have a limit of 3 minutes.
  
  Possiblly the biggest feature though is online play. You can choose to either play with friends 
 or with anyone in the world. With Anyone, you have a 2 minute time for each battle, and if a person 
 quits, a CPU will take over them without you realizing it. You also can't do your imputed taunts. 
 With Friends, you can play with anyone using the same ruls as in multiplayer mode and with up to 
 4 people. It requires the Friend Code though. It's great and really enjoyable, but can sometimes 
 suffer from severe lag depending on your connection.
  
  Overall, it's a complete package that is definately worth the $50 price tag. It is a must have 
 for any Wii owner and is sure to last for the coming months or even years.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer25666
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  this is the best game ever it will never get old. the story mode is really entertaning it kept 
 me busy for days and days. the new characters are all a great new addition to the game. the graphics 
 are crisper than ever. the old characters are still fun to play with. if u liked the old super 
 smash u will love this game. they still have classic mode and trophies that u earn. they also have 
 stickers that u can now earn. u also use ur coins that u get to earn new trophies. brawling with 
 ur friends or family is still as fun as ever. the new combos u can pull over are cool to do and 
 to watch. the new gaming modes make the game better than b4. this is the best game ever its not 
 to hard and not to easy either. u will sit there hour after hour trying to master the game and 
 unlock everything. but after u beat the game u can go back and try to beat it on a harder level 
 than b4. playing online is a nice addition to the game. but nothing can take away the feeling of 
 whooping one of ur friends until he cries. THIS IS THE BEST GAME EVER!! (oh yea thats right 2 exclamation 
 points it deserves it)
  it was definitley worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beaver185
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  This game took 7 painful years of waiting for SUPER SMASH BROTHERS BRAWL!!!!!!!!! I expected more 
 from brawl because it almost took them almost a decade! Brawl was is a great game if you play with 
 big groups of people, so the loser of the match has to hand off. The subspace emissionary was a 
 great idea for Brawl, but with the big maze at the end was extremly annoying if you didn't use 
 pause as the map.
  when Brawl came out i thought will i best? Will I be the worst? Will I be the middle player? With 
 all the new characters it was a new begining for all people for all time champs down to noobies! 
 I think snake is a horrible character no offense to great snake players.... Snake moves are horrible 
 his a and over is a rocket launcher in the floor??????? The only good thing about snake is his final 
 smash that he shoots you with a rocket launcher. I think foxs final smash should be that the great 
 fox comes and blast the screen like the dragoon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leafs37
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Here we go as Mario would usually say and this game is one of the reasons you should be saying 
 let's go to. Super Smash Bros Brawl (the third installment of the seris) is probably the best one 
 to date. Not to mention the online play with Nintendo Wi-Fi. The online could have had more modes 
 then just battling people or watching other matches and the lag on some matches can be very disturbing. 
 Offline is where this game really shines with 35 chracthers to brawl with on over 25 stages. Finally 
 this game has the story mode it deserves The Subspace Emissary a combination of platforming and 
 brawling. Don't forget to play on classic mode though. The multiplayer that this game has been known 
 for still holds the tradition of plain old mindless-brawling fun. The graphics are stunnig showing 
 that the wii has potential in the graphicly dominated world of the 360 and the PS3. Other features 
 include taking replays and snapshots that can be sent to friends all across the world via Nintendo 
 Wi-Fi. This game also has a custom-stage builder but the stage-builder does need a little more 
 work because its not as in depth as others. Also this game has lots of unlockables from trophies 
 to music to stages etc, etc, bringing you back and back again to try and unlock everything and 
 to master the game. Bottom line is best game on the wii ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yugor1000
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Well, Brawl is finally here. And if you thought Melee was good, you ain't seen nothing yet.
  
  Brawl improves upon everything Melee did, throws in a bunch a of new attractions, and then 
 buries you in unlockable goodness that will make completionists cry in their sleep.
  
  Brawl comes with four control schemes built-in, and allows you to customize each to your preferance, 
 so no one gets left without something akward. And for those afraid of change, you can still use 
 a GC controller.
  
  The graphics have a marked improvement, with characers recieving updates befitting their new games, 
 or just a cosmetic update for the sake of the game.
  
  The sound effects and soundtrack should be put at the top with some of the best soundtracks for 
 any video game. You can spend hours at the options screen listening to the music. And speaking 
 of music, Brawl gives you the option to adjust the frequency of songs on the levels they appear 
 on, allowing you to customize what you hear while you play.
  
  The Adventure Mode from Melee? Gone, and replaced with the much superior and fun Subspace Emissionary 
 storyline, which also serves as the primary way to unlock characters and such in the game. You'll 
 easily spend at least 8 hourd on one playthrough.
  
  The stages in Brawl, to say the least, are sublime. Just the right amount of awesome and functional 
 in all the levels, though you will undoubtly have you own favorites. As for mine..... I can't tell 
 you. Its a secret level. Also, they did bring back several popukar Melee and SSB64 levels, for 
 those of you with fond memories of them.
  
  The items are all here too, but now they are joined by many more, some more useful then others. 
 All are fun, but turning off the Dragoon item often helps, as it can be overpowered at times.
 
  
  As for those unlockables, there are HUNDREDS of them, including characters, levels, songs, trophies 
 and more. Good Luck getting them all.
  
  Adding online play was a brilliant move in Brawl. It's almost lag free, and you won't have problems 
 finding a game. You may however, finally realize that you weren't as hot at SSB as you thought. 
 You can use every character and stage (except for custom stages) .
  
  Finally, the characters. all are perfectly balanced, and no one will ever win just because they 
 are using a certain character. all of them are fun to use, though osme of the classic characters 
 have undergone some gameplay refinements to balance them out (most notably, Samus, Mario, Shiek 
 and Link) .
  
  Basically, if you own a Wii, go buy this game. NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lancethelion
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Whats to say? It has great graphics, a great storyline, a great character roster, beast multiplayer 
 and online options. If you have nobody to play with though, you wont always be interested as much. 
 A great suprise from case to gameplay. I give it a 9.5 because it was a bit disapointing. There 
 were too many roomers about it making it look dull. To sum it all up, it is a great game, looks 
 new (is shiny lol) great game play only problem was the rumors made it dull.
  
  Of course the style may not be right for some.
  
  SPOILER: suprisingly there are two third 
 party characters: sonic the hedgehog and solid snake
  
  a great addiction was flying characters (pit and meta knight)
  
  SPOILER: instead of young 
 link, toon link is in this one (he's from the legend of zelda: wind waker, 4 swords adventure, 
 and phantom hourglass) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calm_syrface
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  First i would like to say that the balance between the characters are better. Olimar can hit wit 
 the best of them and Bowser isn't just big and slow he can actually move a bit better. The Super 
 Smash attacks are a perfect addition to already great game and genre. Also addin detail to certain 
 moves like Samus's Super Missle and Link's Wind Boomerang are just the lil touches they needed 
 to make it just right. I believe Nintendo fans are having living dream! The new stages are very 
 nice, they even changed the backgrounds on the Pokemon level! I would recommend anyone who has 
 played and mastered the Gamecube version, to play wit the gamecube stick. It's the most responsive 
 and it's like going back in time! Also the new characters, assist trophies, the new adventure mode, 
 fresh graphics, and the fact that there isn't another game out there quite like this makes this 
 one the best games ever. I'm thinkin this might the last one but if if is... Nintendo went out wit 
 a bang! Thanks Mr. Miyamoto! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1vgfan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing my 360 constantly for a while now, and leaving my Wii sitting in a corner gathering 
 dust. Now I have a reason to play it again, a good reason.
  
  SSBB is an overall great game. After shooting terrorist and chopping zombies for months, this is 
 a great break. 
  
  Single Player: Good. Not great, not bad, but good. The SSE is an awesome way to bring single player 
 to the Smash Bros. series. My only problem would be the lack of depth. While it is very fun, it's 
 not near as fun as many other single player games.
  
  Multiplayer: Almost flawless. There's nothing bad to say about the Brawls, they're perfect. The 
 variety and fun factor is jarring. Co-op is a bloody good time too. My only complaint would be 
 with the online service as a whole. You play random people one time, don't talk to them, and then 
 never see them again. Nintendo Wifi has a lot of work to do to catch up to Xbox Live.
  
  Overall: Must own for any Wii owner. I may have put in a lot of negatives, but that's because everything 
 else is just perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl for the Nintendo Wii
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  Graphics 10/10
  Sound 10/10
  Storyline 10/10
  Extra's and Replay 10/10
  
  I shouldn't even have to write 
 a review for this game, but I do for every new game so I am going to make this short and sweet. 
 This game offers 35 characters to play in a smashing graphical preformance no game has shown in 
 a long time. This game offers it all, from class music to hardcore graphics on the wii. The controls 
 are simple, yet great not pushing the dumb movement at all. Storyline lasts a wopping 8 or more 
 hours of pure fun, with breath taking cut scenes and after all that, brawls! Along with several 
 other classics like classic mode for one lol and home run contest and new features like online 
 wi-fi battles and designing your own area. Some of these things are quiet basic, but are still 
 killer fun. The game offers over 38+ area's and lots of new features with character trophys and 
 super smashes being the killer new ones. This game with or without friends is a blast and the stunning 
 performance in everyway will blow you away, theres no reason not to get this game and theres tons 
 of copies out there trust me I know I work in retail buy them!! Pure Masterpiece that will be played 
 for days to come! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhazonBlazer
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  The long-awaited game is here! SSBB is everything you could have hoped for in a new Smash Bros. 
 Great characters, stages, and awesome multiplayer. There is so much replay in this game, like Wi-fi, 
 trophy collecting, and CD collecting. This is THE BRAWL TO END THEM ALL!!!
  
  
  
  +_+Gameplay+_+
  
  The gameplay is simple but very VERY fun, just like every other Smash Bros 
 game. It has the same fighting controls (A to attack, B to do a special move, L or R to shield 
 and grab, and Up or X or Y to jump) but it also has new controls. For example, there are 4 different 
 controlers: C lassic, Nunchuck, Wii-mote, and Gamecube (I prefer the Gamecube) . There are also 
 Final Smashes that allow you to use a super move that can usually kill somebody. Each character 
 has there own unique Final Smash (except Fox Falco and Wolf, and Link and Toon Link) , and they 
 each have different effects (Example Luigi traps opponents in a green orb and causes status problems 
 to the opponent) . Also there are Created Stages where you can make your own (simple) stage. There 
 is also the SSE, which is an all-new adventure mode. In SSE you go from level to level in a side-scrolling 
 format. Each level has its own environment and you have to use the characters you have provided. 
 The SSE also has great boss battles that are fun and challenging. There is also a **** c mode where 
 you just beat opponent after opponent for 12 levels. In All-Star Mode you have to fight all 35 
 characters, and have only 3 Heart Containers for health. There are also Mini-game features like 
 Homerun Contest, Target Breaking, Multiman Melee, and Boss Battle Mode. But the best part of the 
 game for me has always been the multiplayer. You can create your own match rules and battle against 
 your local friends. If you do not have any local friends, you can use WI-FI!!! With Wi-Fi you can 
 play against random people and your friends online. The one bad thing about Wi-fi is the lag, but 
 there is not alot of it. Overall the gameplay is very fun, it could not have been any better.
 
  
  
  
  Gameplay Score=10
  
  +_+Graphics+_+
  
  The graphics are increased from Melee graphics. The character models are smoother, the stages look 
 better, and it uses better special effects. But do not expect any Halo-like graphics, because that 
 is not what you will get. The graphics are good, but not as good and Super Mario Galaxy's. The 
 characters are very detailed and look great. Each stage looks completely different from any other 
 stage. The Melee stages look a little worse than all of the new stages. The graphics are smooth 
 without any rough edges or any grapic glitches. But do not buy this game only for its graphics.
 
  
  
  
  Graphics Score=9.8
  
  
  +_+Sound+_+
  
  The sound is one of my favorite parts of the game. The music is just epic. It features remixes 
 of old songs, and c lassic songs. The music is absolutely brilliant. Each song fits into the game 
 and makes the stages very unique by their music. The music can be earned by collecting CDs during 
 matches or during the SSE. You can also gain music through the challenge board. Some of the music 
 however is not as good as most of it, but they still sound good. The sound effects are very good. 
 Explosions do not sound realistic, but who cares. The sound effects sound like cartoon sound effects 
 that can be fun to listen to. If I have one problem about the sound it would be some of the voice 
 acting. Some of the voices are really good, but some of them are terrible. Some of the good ones 
 are Meta Knight and Ike. The bad ones are Pit, Pokemon Trainer, Falco (I just dont like his voice, 
 and Fox. But even some of the bad voice acting could not bring this game down. Like I said, the 
 sound track is excellent!!!
  
  
  
  Sound Score=10
  
  
  +_+Lasting Appeal+_+
  
  This game has more lasting appeal than any game so far ever made! You have 35 characters each 
 with unique movesets. You have hundreds of songs available to collect. You have many stages to 
 unlock. But the best part of the lasting appeal is the multiplayer. The multiplayer has so much 
 lasting appeal they could have made a game only with multiplayer and it would be great. But also 
 the online multiplayer is EXTREMELY GOOD!!!! You can play against your friends, or against random 
 people. You can always have someone to fight against no matter the time. You might be fighting 
 against people who cannot play, or you could play against Smash Champions. But either way, you 
 will find something to do in Brawl that will last until the next Smash Bros comes out.
  
  
  
  Replay Score=10000 (10)
  
  
  Closing Comments
  
  This is a great game that will 
 be played for years and years. There is replay value, great graphics, awesome music, and GREAT 
 gameplay. I GIVE THIS GAME A 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: llama1107
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  The good: Insanely good graphics, fun, online MP, variety, difficult, deep, etc, etc. You've already 
 heard the hype, and its true. Amazing. The music brings back good memories from old games. Buy 
 this game at $50, worth it for 100+ hours of game play thats like.... 50 cents an hour, better 
 than any other entertainment.
  
  But... here are my reasons for the lower score...
  
  1. WTF is up with the doubles again?! I thought we'd get revised characters so they're different! 
 
  -Falco just sucks and he's like Wolf and Fox. Wolf and fox are different enough that they're ok, 
 but Falco is like a middleman- too much like Fox, but really bad. 
  -Lucas... oh, Lucas... WTF!!!!!!
  -Ganondorf could have been revised to be awesome, but he's 
 a lot like Cpt. Falcon
  
  2. Stage editor could be better- needs: more backgrounds, more memory, and triggers (lava coming 
 or something like that) 
  The worst part of this is the  
 AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH! Every time you build a stage, there is a layer of blocks that is on all sides 
 of the screen you cant fill in, so your stage is always "suspended."
  
  3. Online.... where is talking? That's a Nintendo thing, but this game could especially use it!! 
 That really hurts SSBB.
  
  4. Skill: still there is skill, but once again, it speeds up- making the game more button mashing-like. 
 
  The N64 game was nice and medium paced allowing for players to exert certain moves at certain times 
 requiring skill.
  
  5. Load times for Subspace Emissary suck. The campaign isn't very much fun. Sorry. 
  
  6. Pokemon: 
 WTF (w= who in this case) cares about the new pokemon? Not me, its kind of gone in America. But, 
 heres what Nintendo did anyway: took almost all of the old pokemon out of the game and replaced 
 them with crappy ones. And, there are not very many pokemon at that! Always the same pokemon coming 
 out of the pokeballs, almost all have no ability, or an uber gay, strong ability.
  
  Sorry to rag on you SSBB, but please fix these before the next game. Besides these key frustrations 
 and outraging misses, the game rules. But, its far from perfect.
  
  8.7/10 (I rounded to 9 because overall it has a good impression) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: don_tattagliano
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  Since E3 2006, we have been waiting for Nintendo's new Super Smash Bros. game. Hey, some people 
 waited even longer! Finally, they release it in March 2008, and is a classic, a hit, a "best game 
 of all-time", and everything else that kids say these days, all in the first minute. Nintendo really 
 outdid the world this time!
  
  This game may just be Nintendo's rifle they use to assassinate Sony and Microsoft, two other major 
 competitors of the market at present. This game may be the sword Miyamoto uses to kill Gates, Allen, 
 Morita, and Idei. This game may be... You get the idea.
  
  Note that from this point to the end of this review there will be spoilers. The appearances of 
 Wario, King Dedede, Lucario, Sonic, Wolf, Olimar, and Toon Link are just amazing. What really gets 
 me excited, though, are the appearances of R. O. B., Metaknight, and Snake. 35 characters, 41 stages, 
 lots of items, can you imagine the possibilities? Must I review further to persuade your tough-to-persuade-y 
 soul?
  
  There are too many features to list in this review, so I'll leave you to find those. I will, however, 
 tell you about the new challenge system and online play. One thing that truly makes Brawl an awesome 
 game is that you can play online, you can do multi-man brawls online, you can even do home-run 
 contests online! The thing that caught my attention, though, was that you can GAMBLE! Yes, you 
 can spectate matches and bet who will win! As for unlockables, there's a new screen dedicated to 
 them, completely filled with blue squares. After unlocking something, a blue square shows an unlockable 
 with instructions of how you unlocked it. Two squares, one left and one right, turn into red, faded 
 images of unlockables, with challenges in the place of their description. If you succeed these 
 challenges, you win the unlockable, and it repeats.
  
  I would love to review this game a lot more, but I must get busy to playing the game itself. Its 
 so great you could play all day, all night for a week straight. Trust me, I've tried. And its pretty 
 hard for me to try, because I'm "big" but even too lazy to get up for a bucket of chicken. Thats 
 how great this game is. You don't know how great this game is until you've played it. Now kiddies, 
 time to get off your computers and go to the store and GET THIS GAME! Unless if you already got 
 it, but in that case go buy it again and give it to a friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corkeyrivas
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2008 3:25 am PT
Review:  So, you'd think "Oh, Smash Bros.! How much can you improve that game other than just adding characters 
 and levels?" Well, this takes the smash we all know and love and improves in every way. More characters, 
 more stages, more modes, online play, more stuff to unlock, more more more.
  
  To start with the controls this game uses four different controllers, and each is customizable 
 so you can map each button just the way you want it. There's even a little bit of motion control. 
 When using the Wii remote and nunchuck control scheme, you can set the game to read your motions. 
 By tilting the wiimote up, down, left, or right, your character performs the corresponding smash 
 move, like the C-stick does on the gamecube controller. 
  
  All of the new characters are extremely well balanced. Even slight changes have been made to older 
 characters. Mario no longer does his tornado attack for his down special, he now powers up F. L. U. D. D. 
 so you can shoot it and push people off ledges. Some cheap moves such as the "wavedash" seem to 
 have been removed also, evening the playing field from those vets who would exploit this little 
 glitch to get one kill and just stay alive the rest of the match.
  
  Stages have been added that make the game really fun just to look at and play on. particular mention 
 goes to the Wario Ware stage. Every so often, the playing area will change and you'll get an instruction 
 like "Don't Move" or "Taunt". Players who follow the instructions get a bonus like growing big 
 or invincibility for a short time. These things sort of make it like you're playing two games at 
 the same time. 
  
  In Melee, items just kinda, assisted you. In Brawl though, some of the items seem to do the work 
 for you. Spicy Curry spits fireballs while you move and attack regularly. the Dragoon (once you've 
 assembled it) k. o.'s anyone you hit with it. but old regular items remain like the hammer and poke=balls. 
 The new final smash is really cool because players sort of, drop what they're doing to get it. 
 This randomly floating orb bestows it's momentum-changing power to the fighter who breaks it open. 
 These powers range from a simple really big attack, to raining stars, to unleashing creatures of 
 the night on your foes, to transforming into a faster stronger flying version of you that is tough 
 to control, but strong enough to blast off opponents who get caught by it. 
  
  The single player gets a big boost in a well imagined adventure mode that can be done co-op. But 
 lets get real, you don't play smash to play by yourself, and the adventure mode can be stimulating 
 if for nothing else you need a distraction from beating your friends faces in while they're away. 
 
  
  Online seems to be having some troubles. it can take five minutes or more before you even connect 
 to another player. This is due largely to Nintendo being flooded with players trying to connect 
 at once. Though, while online you cannot send messages or even see a screen name for your opponents. 
 they are (hopefully) just smarter computer players. Online really shines though, if you have some 
 friends with Wiis and a copy of the game. You can see if you have friends playing online, change 
 game modes to more than just the 2 minute ko fest the plain online offers. you can create a profile 
 and map phrases to taunts. though, it's not voice chat . I'll just set my friend on speaker and 
 set my phone nearby to let the trash talk happen during the game. of course, this should be done 
 on night and weekends so to not waste all your cell-phone minutes. 
  
  A new area called "Masterpieces" lets you play demos of games that characters first appeared in. 
 But only for about 90 seconds.
  
  Most of the rest of the game is the same as Melee with a few improvements here and there, and by 
 few, I mean quite a few. 
  
  Brawl improves on Melee in every way. Though I would have liked to see more support for motion 
 controls and the pointer feature of the wii-remote, their absence does not hurt the game at all. 
 I also would have liked to play the masterpieces for more than just a minute, maybe if they let 
 us play one whole level, but again, no biggie as the draw is the actual smash game not old originals. 
 Online could have been polished more and maybe it's possible for them to release updates online. 
 All in all though, the tiny complaints are easily seen past. This game improves on the predecessors 
 in every way. 10 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaara014
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2008 11:43 pm PT
Review:  To start , I think that this game is the best in the entire series!! It has wicked controls, amazing 
 graphics, fourty - something stages, 35 characters, and to top things off, it has it's very own 
 website to keep you up to date with daily updates! Oh yeah and it has awesome wi-fi connection 
 features! If you are playing it with the wii remote at first, the controls may take some getting 
 used to, but all of the game-cube controller's controls are pretty much the exact same as Melee. 
 So if you have played Melee, then you will probably find the controls pretty easy. This game is 
 the perfect game! It has pretty much a bit of every genre for games in it!
  ex. The adventure mode: an adventure genre.
  The Classic Mode: A platform genre.
  The Basic 
 brawl ing ect.: a fighting genre. (obviously!:) )
  and even more.... so if you are reading this and thinking of how awesome this game is, then go buy 
 it!!:)
  This has been a Gaara014 review.... lol.... bye! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kittykatz5k
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Story:
  So tell me, what's the average fighting game story line? It involves a tournament right, with some 
 prize everyone wants at the end of course. Well, the story in smash bros isn't exactly amazing, 
 but it's a lot better than your average fighting game's storyline and it's pushed forward by beautiful 
 cutscenes. 
  
  It all starts with a little innocent battle, when the battleship halberd comes out of the sky spreading 
 monsters somewhat resembling the heartless in kingdom hearts. From there, smash bros evolves into 
 something of a side scroller, even including coop. You may think adventure mode from melee, and 
 you would be kinda right. See, main difference is though, the side scrolling sections in this are 
 a lot more in depth. Full scale bosses, character specific sections, and a large list of enemies 
 to clobber. 
  
  Graphics:
  It is a very high resed and reduxed melee, and I really couldn't ask for more. It's true, you'll 
 feel like you're playing melee at times. This however I don't believe is a graphics problem. Pay 
 attention and animations are much more detailed, zoom in and you'll see your character carrying 
 much more on him than his melee model ever could. Lands and stages carry so much more dynamics 
 and details than the melee stages ever could. The reason it feels familiar is the game, not the 
 graphics. You can't just make captain falcon look different from who he is, so seeing him on the 
 field will always look the same, even to an n64 extent. Getting that out of the way...
  
  The game looks awesome. Framerates do not drop below 60 on a normal match and stages are a beauty, 
 retaining the style of whatever world they come from while still carrying a look that can be used 
 for a battle between snake, mario, and link. There are a couple of odd places of loading times, 
 mainly in the adventure mode, but otherwise, just wonderful to look at.
  
  Gameplay:
  It's smash bros, there's no denying that. It plays like a smash bros game, and you can't just change 
 that fact. Anyone however who says it's too familiar obviously doesn't realize that smash is a 
 game which doesn't get sequels every year. The biggest and only real main addition to the chaos 
 gameplay of smashing people off your hill is the smash ball. This releases a devastating character 
 specific attack which can range from transformations to giant beams to an LCD octopus. 
  
  This however doesn't mean you don't have much to discover. While gameplay remains generally the 
 same, there's a lot of new stuff to discover. A total of 35 characters (excluding transforms like 
 sheik/zelda) take up the land, all of which are arguably unique this time. There's still some similar 
 characters, but everyone has had a good deal of work put into their own fighting style now, and 
 each character feels like their own character. No more mario/dr. mario or pikachu/pichu cloning 
 going on. The only character I've found to play a bit too familiarly is fox and falco. Wolf can 
 be argued as too much like fox, but I find his playstyle completely different. Further more, every 
 character has a feeling of equalness. Where speed characters used to dominate, heavy characters 
 have now been given their rightful power on stage to be equal with everyone else. Do not just stop 
 at one kool looking certain sword character and play him over and over again, there's a lot of 
 people to discover and you'll have more fun if you try them all. 
  
  In game modes outside of a standard battle, you have everything from the old game, some of which 
 given new coop functionality like the Multiman Brawl. The previously mentioned adventure mode while 
 not acting as a game in itself, is an amazing and shockingly fun experience, lasting a good 8 hours. 
 A new lineup of events await you for challenges, a long lineup of unlockables, challenges, and 
 secrets. There's so much to do, you'll be busy for a long time to come, and keep coming back for 
 casual battles with friends. It's true, you could wish for more characters, you could wish for 
 you favorite nintendo character playable here if he or she wasn't or another stage or 2, but those 
 aren't game flaws, those are wishlist. 
  
  Sounds:
  This has to be the highest point of the game. This is perfect, a wonderful to the ears soundtrack 
 fills the game with variety for that last touch. Where each stage in melee only had 1 or 2 pieces 
 of music for it, brawl has several for every last stage on the list! All of which adjustable in 
 their appearance possibility, so to make 1 music that special rare occasion or so to turn off that 
 1 piece you just can't stand. This game is overflowing with music. Having downloaded a ripped version 
 of the soundtrack, I have well over 200 pieces here, most to all of which is high quality stuff.
 
  
  The second side of sound however goes to voice work. Every character, whether being a playable 
 character or a simple assist trophy has a voice where necessary, none of which I think a loyal 
 fan could be ashamed of. While voices may seem minimal, the most of which you'll get in victory 
 poses or attacks like the famous "falcon punch!", even just the grunts and the pokemon saying their 
 names keep a quality often seen on tv show cartoons and such. None of which I find annoying in 
 the slightest personally. Sound effects also carry enough variety.
  
  Who wants this game?
  Do you have a wii? Do you want to have fun? Yeah. You want this game. It's 
 the closest to a perfect game I've played in years, and the work put into the game really shines 
 through.
  
  Extra note:
  You may notice that I never mentioned online. It is suitable to battle that friend across the world 
 you have, and i put a couple rounds into random battles, but I don't use it enough esspecially 
 in the swarmed state it's in to mention it or give an opinion on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MakoNinja
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Got the game and instantly loved it if you don't have this game GET IT! You might even piss yourself 
 at its awesomeness. Why you ask? Simple, try using a final smash for the first time and you will 
 understand what I mean. Try fights between Samus, Sonic, Fox, and Lucario. Or maybe Link, Mario, 
 Pikachu, and Kirby. Whatever you choose it will rock your socks. Out of 10 !'s, I give SSBB  
 / !!!!!!!!!!
  
 
  SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM 
 SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM 
 SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM 
 SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM 
 SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM 
 SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM 
 SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brain_ager
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is THE best title on Wii. The control options is a great new improvement 
 for the game because anybody can pick up a game and play. It may take a little while to pick up 
 the controls, but you'll get it in about 10 minutes. The offline mode for Brawl is increadibly 
 fun with your friends. The tournament mode is back from Melee, which is a bit more complicated 
 to get the hang of but it will work it self out. The Single Player mode is pretty intense and also... very 
 very fun. The Subspace Emissionary (SSE) is the adventure mode to the game. This story will help 
 you unlock most of the characters. The classic mode is the same as always: playing stage to stage 
 fighting characters and fighting your way through to get to the master hand. (who knows, there 
 may be a couple of suprises at the end) 
  
  The online segment of the game is THE BEST PART of the game. When you connect to wifi, some days 
 you will recieve new things and other days you wont. If you have friends to play with, I would 
 definitly recommend playing with them rather than just playing with anyone. When you play with 
 your friends, the game is always lag free. On your rouster, you can have 64 friends. If you actually 
 do have yor friend rouster full, you will always have someone to play with. On the other hand, 
 when you play with anyone, you will get to the character selection screen, then to the stage selection, 
 then if you want, you can fight with... a sand bag for practice. That part is Lag free, At the bottom 
 of the screen, you will notice 3 searching boxes, those are just looking for people to play. It 
 will take a good 5 -10 minutes to get some players connected to you. If you are successful at getting 
 to play, good for you. When you get to the match, the game will probably lag A LOT. Sometimes you 
 will be lucky and the game will only lag the tiniest bit. Still the online is the best part.
  
  Overall, the game is definitly worth a perfect 10 and you HAVE TO BUY THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zHELLDOG
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  
  
  It's been a long and anticipating wait for Super Smash Bros. Brawl, but this game was definitely 
 worth the wait. 
  
  I got this game on the day it was released, and I was surprised the best buy that I got it from 
 still had over 100 copies in stock. My younger brother and i couldn't wait to pop this game into 
 a wii and get to the beatdowns, so we went over to our cousin's house and he had his wii hooked 
 up so we dived right in. There were four of us playing, my two cousins, me, and my brother. The 
 first match we played was just amazing. We played the game for about an hour an already unlocked 
 2 characters long before that. We were all using gamecube controllers and I decided to try out 
 the wii remote and nunchuck, which i must say is a great control scheme. The most fun i've ever 
 had playing a game was playing on a four player free for all match on super smash bros. brawl.
 
  
  Anyway down to the reviewing. As you probably know, SSBB has 4 different control schemes: GC controller, 
 wii remote tilted on its side, wii remote & nunchuk, and classic controller. Anyone that has played 
 super smash bros melee alot with the gamecube controller will most likely use the tried and tru 
 method of using it instead of anything different. But the other controllers are worth giving a 
 shot at. Although it will feel awkward at first using the new controllers, you'll find that playing 
 with them is pretty fun. I think that the nunchuk and the wiimote feel great and don't really take 
 much getting used to, so i recommend it. The classic controller just feels really awkward, since 
 the taunt button is where the movement button should be. Last but not least, the wii remote itself. 
 This one takes a litte getting used to, since the sheild button is underneath the controller, but 
 it doesn't really seem to hinder gameplay at all.
  GRAPHICS: just... amazing (probably the best on the wii) . Hook it up to an HDTV if you've got one, 
 because it looks even better. 9/10
  SOUND: you can select what music goes on in the background of a stage ( to some limit though) , 
 and the sound effects and musical score are great. 9/10
  GAMEPLAY: Control feels better than in previous installments. 10/10
  STORY: the adventure mode 
 is a game in itself that takes usually about 8 hours to beat (on easy) and has cutscenes in it 
 that give you some insight into the story, even though they don't talk. i like the way they introduce 
 the characters in brawl also. 10/10
  
  CONCLUSION: This game scores an overall score of exactly.... 9.5!!!!
  This is my all time favorite 
 game made by nintendo, its right up there with new super mario bros for the DS. Great graphics, 
 great control, innovative, great sound, the list goes on! What makes this game great is that anyone 
 can pick up a controller and have fun with it right off the bat with a few friends or even online! 
 It is my personal recommendation that: IF YOU OWN A NINTENDO WII, GO OUT AND BUY A COPY OF THIS 
 GAME!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: N64rox
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  First off, I wanna start by saying this game was worth all of the delays. Almost 9 years from the 
 original super smash bros., brawl includes an awesome storyline with over 20 new characters, including 
 Sonic and Snake. Very fun and addictive, tons of features to unlock and lots of replayability. 
 Sound is awesome, with over 100 Nintendo tracks which you can choose to play when you're battling. 
 Story is very unique and easy to understand even though there is not one word during the entire 
 thing. It moves along in a way in which there'll be teams of characters (ie Lucas/Pokemon Trainer/, 
 Pit/Mario) which all eventually come together (even villians but I can't tell you how!) to fight 
 off a bigger threat. Multiplayer is awesome too, with plenty of Special Brawl customization and 
 the ability to make your own stages to play on. Online is awesome, with minimal lag. Overall, just 
 a game you really want to pick up if you have a Wii. If not, get a Wii and get the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiteSoxBud
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  This is the best Smash Bros. to date. Still I'm a little disappointed about the characters, stages, 
 ect. I'll start with the characters.
  
  CHARACTERS
  Its always fun experimenting with the new characters of Smash Bros. There are some characters that 
 you'll love from the beginning and then some characters you'll wanna try to stay away from. Now 
 I'm a person who LOVES unlockable characters so I was a little let down when I heard Brawl was 
 putting less emphasise on unlockable characters. If you are like me then you'll be a little let 
 down. But besides that the characters are good. The characters I wanted in didn't get in but who 
 cares because within a month I'll forget about it.
  
  STAGES
  Stages are alright. In Melee, each universe got about 2 stages. In Brawl most only have one besides 
 the past stages. And stage builder isn't as great as it looks. You only have 3 backgrounds. The 
 good thing though is you can pick any song. But to sum up stages, they're good.
  ALSO, not many unlockable stages! I was upset about that.
  
  FUN
  Even though I was let down 
 quite a bit, this game is the funnest Smash Bros. game of the series so far. I just love the fact 
 that you can kick Sonic's butt as much as you want. And if you like Sonic, then you can beat up 
 any other character. To me its a fast past game and I like that.
  
  SUMMARY
  Its REALLY REALLY fun. Still it could of been better but just think about this. Its better than 
 if it was released Dec. 3. Now please don't think that I hate this game because I don't, I  
 THIS GAME!!! But I think that a good review tells people about things that aren't all that great. 
 If you want me to tell you the good things about this game it would be that ITS FUN!!! I can't 
 say it any better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: air_wolf_cubed
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  This review will be very long. Read at own risk....
  
  The Subspace Emissary:
  
  The Subspace Emissary is a mildly long single player or co-op adventure. It's the fastest way to 
 unlock all the characters in the game. You go through all of these platforming stages fighting 
 off enemies and bosses. As you proceed, new characters are introduced and you can play as any of 
 them. The controls can feel a little sticky sometimes because of the fighting layout of the buttons 
 while you're platforming but it is still very playable and only a teeny tiny flaw. Once you beat 
 the Subspace Emissary, you can go back and complete levels fully although the bad thing is sometimes 
 you can never seem to figure out what you missed and might wind up using a walkthrough. Same thing 
 with some characters because a few of them are hiding and you might have no idea where to look 
 to unlock them. 
  
  Overall the SSE is a great single player or co-op experience that adds a lot of replay value to 
 the game. Make sure you play it
  
  Classic Mode: 
  
  Classic mode has been in all 3 of the Smash Bros. You fight certain characters that eventually 
 lead up to the final boss Master Hand. The characters you fight can be in many different types 
 of forms: 2 against you and an Ally, Metal, a bunch of the same guys, Giant with an ally helping 
 you, Giant and you by yourself, or 3 against you. A flaw is that the mode is too predictable. Almost 
 every time you play you will realize that you face Zelda people first, then Diddy and Donkey Kong, 
 and other things like that. Another bad thing is that they got rid of Snag the Trophies. It was 
 fun to kick trophies into the middle thing too add to your collection but it's gone now. Other 
 than that it's a great mode to play.
  
  Multiplayer: 
  
  Play online with your friends or with random people. All stages and characters can be used. But 
 one thing is you can't use custom stages which is very bad. In friend match the rules are fully 
 customizable. You can also use taunts with short phrases which is pretty cool but not the best 
 substitute for voice chat. However these taunts cannot be used in random matches nor can you see 
 anyone elses name in random matches. Oh and in random matches you can only do 2 minute matches 
 and no stock or anything else which is kinda dumb. Also sometimes you can never find random people 
 and it might get frustrating and hopefully Nintendo will fix the servers. A cool thing is up to 
 3 people on the same Wii can play in Friend matches against friends, I never tried it but I bet 
 it's fun. One other minor flaw is that there is a lot of lag sometimes but most of the time it 
 runs pretty smoothly.
  
  Other things:
  
  Build you own stages is cool however I find it extremely limited because you cant build stages 
 similar to the Mario Kart stages and things like that but it's still a great addition.
  
  A very big wall of unlockable content. You'll be amazed as to what some of the objectives are to 
 unlocking some things like for example: "Brawl for 100 hours". It basically adds so much replay 
 value and challenges to the game.
  
  The graphics for this game are really great. The SSE cutscenes are beautiful to look at and so 
 are the characters. Especially the furry characters. The amount of detail in some effects are great 
 to and the game runs at a full 60 fps which is awesome.
  
  The sound is OMG incredible. There's tons and tons of music from franchises. It is one of the best 
 soundtracks in a video game ever. There's hardly any voice overs but you dont need them because 
 everything speaks for itself and you can tell whats going on easily. The characters do talk in 
 taunts and certain moves and Kirby is pretty cute when he says "Falcon Punch." The announcer in 
 this game is different form the last one and may seem annoying at first but you get used to it.
 
  
  What sucks is although there are Melee stages, there are no N64 stages. I was really looking forward 
 to playing the old Zelda stage and some others but can't. 
  
  Limited demos are included. You can play games like F-Zero or Starfox 64 for a few minutes which 
 is kinda fun. However some of the time limits are ridiculous. Some games you can only play 43 seconds 
 of. It might be enough to get me to buy the game but I would like to try it out for at least a 
 little longer. At least I can play the demos as much as I like.
  
  
  
  
  There a lot more then what I said so if you own a Wii pick up this game right now. You'll be playing 
 it for months or even years to come. Great job Nintendo and HAL Lab
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Techspert
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  I, like most of you, eagerly awaited the release of Brawl, and I couldnt be happier now that it's 
 here. So ill get right into the positives and negatives:
  
  Positives:
  -ACTUAL CAMPAIGN!!!!!!!! adventure mode doesnt count for melee, and this game actually has a plot 
 and storyline (although not the best, but cant complain about that)
  -Smash ball implimentation made the game so much better and adds another dimension to multiplayer 
 brawls
  -LARGE variety of playable characters, each with their own unique final smash
  
  Negatives:
  -Characters are sometimes repetitive in two ways:
  -1: Repetitive Character Selection: 
 Captain Falcon and Ganandorf, Fox, Falco and Wolf, Link and WW Link. all have pretty much the same 
 move arsenal
  -2: Repetitive individual moves: some characters, like sonic, have pretty much ONE move that is 
 slightly different for each input. his A up, A down, B, B to the side, and B down are all spins, 
 and i think his B to the side and his b down are actually the same move
  
  Still, the positives WAAAAAAAY overwhelm the negatives 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigi487
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is the most anticipated game for the Wii, and quite possibly the year. 
 Brawl has the biggest character roster ever in a Smash Bros game, with an outstanding 35 character 
 to Brawl with, you will definitely find one suited to your style of play. This game has a whole 
 lot of game modes, whether your doing Solo of Group mode, there's always something to do in this 
 game. Another very huge addition is online play, I'm not going to go into depth about this mode 
 because I don't play the online mode much, I just mainly go into the group mode and play against 
 the computers. Another addition is the Final Smash, this allows a character to activate their special 
 finishing moves ( with the help of you breaking open a smash ball) these moves are over-the-top 
 and deadly, some character final smashes are even instant Ko's (Link is just one of them) and some 
 will just give them a status problem (Luigi anybody) when a smash ball appears it's a mad frenzy 
 to see who will break it open. The character all fit into a different weight class there are the 
 lightweights who will get ko'd faster then anyone else ( Olimar and Pikmin) , the middleweights 
 (Mario) who will stay alive longer then the lightweights, and finally the heavyweights who will 
 stay alive the longest (Ike, Bowser) . The solo mode consists of classic mode which is the same as 
 it's always been, adventure mode, the supspace emissary is not as good as it could be, the first 
 few hours of it are fun, but after that you'll force yourself to get through it, the good thing 
 about adventure mode is that it will unlock all the hidden character without you having to do hundreds 
 of matches to unlock the character you want to play as. 
  
  In conclusion pick up this game and you will be entertained for months, if not years.
  
  P. S. 
 I would've made this review more in-depth, but I really want to get back playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aaronthereal1
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  indeed this game is so good i don't have words to explain this this is the best fighter ever kicks 
 a lot of ass this is why its one of my favorite games your fighting A-B-C's some may say theres 
 clones but there isn't if you think about it toon link is not a clone but a character all on his 
 own everything about this game pwns the easy control highly addictive gameplay there may be some 
 levels in the subspace emmisary that feel repetitive but the cinemas feel like an awesome break 
 so its an absoulte crime not to buy this game very awesome how they take simple controls and put 
 them to the test in an all out fight to the finish where anything is possible. the items are good 
 they made the hammer useless but they made the golden hammer, and this is the best part NO LAG 
 in online matches nintendo and hal deserve a nice big pat on the back 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 19, 2008 4:00 am PT
Review:  There always comes a time where each company pulls out it's secret weapon to aid them in their 
 system wars standpoint. Super Smash has always been one of Nintendo's greatest games, this time's 
 no different. Familiar characters join new faces "in an epic brawl to end them all." The game is 
 truly a masterpiece, i can truthfully tell you each delay was for the better. The game shimmers 
 with brilliance of characters, colors, items, adventures, move sets, ideas etc.... At first release, 
 the game exploded from gamestop stores across the United States. I LOVE 
 
  
  
  Past brawlers seeking adventure can find it here! With all new characters and older ones modified 
 such as Link and Zelda, we can see how Nintendo nurtures their greatest hits. Theirs, the stealthy, 
 the brute strength warriors, the skilled swordsmen, the stamina masterminds, the puffy creatures 
 and other stuff.....
  
  
  Basically what im saying is..... Get the game you cant go wrong! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supercubedude64
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  In terms of technical things you put in a review like game play, graphics, and sound, I can sum 
 those up in one three word sentence. It's Smash Bros. Now that we've gotten that out of the way...
 
  
  The problem is if you played Melee for YEARS like I did, this feels like a tiny step back. The 
 core is still there, it's still hella fun to scream with four other people in a free for all, the 
 items are great, Samus still sucks, all of that core stuff is still there. But there are tiny things 
 that will bug a veteran player. Some of the new characters are unbalanced, a lot of the new items 
 suck, and the Subspace Emissary is terribly boring and extremely repetitive. Basically all of the 
 things that differentiate Brawl from Melee make it a worse experience (except Smash Balls) . All 
 in all, it's still Smash Bros, so it's still good, just not as good as Melee, which, after six 
 years, is a huge letdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mononon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  As a fan of the Super Smash Bros. franchise I have to say that this game is great. The brilliant 
 balancing of the characters is amazing, the roster of fighters, including assist trophies and pokeballs, 
 is incredible, and the gameplay is fluid and easy to pick up, while being deep and challenging 
 to master.
  
  This game is great, especially for those of you that are Nintendo fans. There is a chance that 
 some of you will literally weep with joy when you look at some of the characters that you will 
 be playing with. The menus on the games are fairly standard, they just list the options, sadly 
 the developers didn't put much thought into them, although that isn't what anyone wants to hear 
 about. The gameplay is what you are reading this for, and I am happy to say that it is still great, 
 though there are a few bumps in it. If you didn't already know, there are multiple control types 
 for you to test out, these include: the Wii Remote turned sideways, the Wii Remote and the Nunchuck 
 attachment, the Classic Controller, and the Gamecube Controller. All of these options work to a 
 certain extent, however, the Gamecube controller has a better feel and seems to be made for a game 
 like Brawl. Though it is great just to play around with some of the other control schemes
  
  When you finally start to play a game, which shouldn't take long as there aren't many menus 
 to navigate through, you will instantly be transported back to your Super Smash Bros. 64 days. 
 I believe that this game, much more so than Melee, manages to capture that feeling of nostalgia 
 that all Nintendo fans want. The original 12 characters are back, and I am glad to say that they 
 have been upgraded from their watered-down Melee forms, Fox and Pikachu have seen the greatest 
 improvement over the last installment. I am also very happy to say that most of the new characters 
 work very well. Some of the more hyped additions include: Metaknight, a quick combo dealer who 
 is great for a fast hit and a quick getaway, Pit, not as powerful as some of the other characters 
 but fast and almost impossible to knock off the stage, Wario, the slow heavy character with hilarious, 
 powerful attacks, and Star Wolf, not a clone of fox but a completely new character with unique 
 moves and incredible speed and strength. All of the new characters work to an extent, and in the 
 right hands can be used to win any battle.
  
  All the familiar game types are back, with new names of course, such as Classic, Brawl, Subspace 
 Emissary, and the new online Brawls. Classic mode is what we all know. You simply choose one character, 
 a difficulty, the number of lives you wish to have (1-5) and fight your way through 13 matches 
 which end in your battle with the mysterious Master Hand. This mode is the same as it has always 
 been, which isn't a bad thing, and it is fun to play on the harder difficulties. Some of the matches 
 seem to be a little too hard or a way too easy at times, but overall it is balanced and very fun. 
 Brawl is your simple multiplayer game. You can use this mode to play with friends on the same console. 
 You can of course choose the stipulations, such as which items appear, how often they appear, lives, 
 speed, and size of the combatants. 
  
  The adventure mode, named Subspace Emissary, has had a huge overhaul. It features full cutscenes, 
 a great story, without voices as is always Nintendo's fashion which makes the all the more funny 
 to watch at times, and gameplay that is great at times, broken at others. Sadly, Subspace Emissary 
 is where I have to actually criticize Brawl. This alternative to adventure mode in Melee, which 
 itself was not stellar, is just mediocre compared to the rest of the game. You will spend most 
 of your time fighting mindless enemies, most of which look the same with slightly different forms 
 of attack. You will have a few platforming segments sprinkled along, and you will fight bosses, 
 which in my opinion, are not very fun. The fighting segments are quite boring. The enemies don't 
 present much of a challenge and some of the characters that you are forced to fight with, you usually 
 only get to choose from about 2-3 characters to use, and you can switch unless one of them dies, 
 are not always good enough to be useful, especially if you are not used to them, such as Olimar. 
 The platforming sections are probably the worst part of the Subspace Emissary. The particular style 
 of jumping that is used in Brawl doesn't really fit the platforming genre. Some characters work 
 okay, but others, such as King Dedede, just aren't meant for that kind of gameplay. The boss fights, 
 while not great are probably the best part of the adventure mode. You will get to fight giant bosses 
 that have a decent variety of attacks and can, at times, actually be quite challenging, especially 
 when you fight them with some of the worse off characters. Overall, the Subspace Emissary is a 
 decent package with a good story that ties up nicely. It is, however, the obvious folly of Brawl.
 
  
  Now for the part that everyone has been waiting for, the online. I am happy to say that it works 
 magnificently, assuming you can get someone to play with. Since the game has been released, Nintendo 
 has had some server problems, due to all the activity, but they promise that it will be fixed very 
 soon. In the online mode you have the option to watch a match, and bet coins on who you think will 
 win, fight with a friend, which is the best option at this particular point, and fight with anyone, 
 which has the server issues until further notice. The Spectator mode is pretty basic, bet-and-watch. 
 There isn't really anything to speak of there. If you wish to Brawl with your friends you will 
 need the dreaded friend codes, although it is worth it. Fighting your friends is an absolute riot, 
 plus you get more options for battles, Brawl with anyone only allows you to play 2-Minute KO fest. 
 The "With Anyone" options is fun as well, assuming you can find a match. Any of these modes is 
 surprising lag-free, especially for a fighting game, and they are all incredibly fun. You can fight 
 in a Free-for-all or a team battle, whichever you choose, but both work great, and every gametype 
 is great. When the servers are fixed you won't ever take Brawl out of your Wii.
  
  Now to talk specifically about the downsides of Brawl. As I mentioned earlier, the Subspace Emissary 
 is an obvious flaw. Another part is the way that you will unlock characters in Brawl. It has been 
 made too easy. You can simple play the Adventure mode to unlock every character in the game, there 
 is no real work required, especially if you play on easy. Another flaw is the way that the two 
 most anticipated characters are brought to life. Sonic and Solid Snake, while both are playable, 
 don't work as well as most of the other brawlers. Sonic works fine if you just want to mess around, 
 as does Snake, but neither has the power nor polish of some of the Nintendo favorites, and I know 
 that is a disappointment to the Sonic fans. While these are small gripes, as both Sonic and Snake 
 can be used in the right hands, and can be used very well, it is still sad.
  
  All-in-all Brawl is a great game that everyone who has a Wii should own. There is no excuse to 
 not have this game. It is by far the best looking, playing, and feeling game for the Wii. It does 
 not dumb down too much like other games, looks at Metroid Prime 3, and it can actually be challenging 
 unlike any other game on the Wii. The nostalgia factor alone should prompt you to purchase this, 
 but the stellar gameplay, decent adventure mode, and incredible online mode should keep you coming 
 back for the 7 years it will take to make the next Super Smash Bros game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clutzyaj
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  Well, for about over 5 years, everyone has been wanting a new kind of smash. That comes true with 
 Brawl, but overall, it's a game that comes with some downsides....
  
  First off, gameplay is truly wonderful. No more having to worry about edge gaurding, L-canceling, 
 wavedashing, or Marth only Final Destanation crap! It's somewhat like SSB64, except that it's bit 
 trickier to combo. No problem though, since it now means that you and your no-so-quick-at-games 
 friends can pick up and have fun. Still, I reccommend the GCN controler, since it's much easier 
 to use than swinging around a Wii remote.
  
  Graphics are terrible though, mainly because the're over detailed. Personally, I could care less 
 about seeing Mario's overall stitches and Fox's pores alongside Charizard's drool. The melee stages 
 are even more out of proportion, and there's just some details that you could care less seeing 
 (Snake's and ZS Samus' suits are a good example) .
  
  The story mode is bland. The Subspace Emissary does okay for an adventure mode, but it's the storyline 
 that is hard to swallow. It's just too serious, with little or no humor inbetween. No to mention, 
 you can literally almost skip doing it since there are more ways to get characters, stages, and 
 other things. If you're going to do it, do it with a friend or sibiling, it will be much easier. 
 
  
  Music is certianly the perfect (or almost perfect) thing in here. You're bound to find something 
 you'll like, considering the worst tunes are really the Latin choir arrangements and the nasty 
 sounding 8-bit composistions. The Metal Gear Solid soundtrack that is used is quite impressive 
 (considering I've never played any of those games!) , but really, outside of Mario, Zelda, and the 
 third parties (MGS and Sonic) , there's just about 10-15 tunes if you include the returning Melee 
 music. Still, you're gonna find tunes you can't live without.
  
  The stage and character rosters are probably what also hurt this game. Mario has newcomming stages, 
 but no new characters. Zelda has new stages along with Hyrule Temple from Melee, and toon link 
 replaces the young Link. Don't expect King K. Rool, or any new DK stages outside of Rumble Falls. 
 Instead of Mewtwo, you've got Lucario alongside the least visited and almost unimportant place 
 in Shinnoh: Spear Pillar. Starfox brings up nothing really new except the lame anti-hero Wolf O'Donnel, 
 the easy to whip loser you fought in SF64 and Starfox Assault. You'll also meet ROB, a 80s robot 
 who helped get the NES on the shelf. Overall, characters that people really wanted (Ridley, Krystal, 
 King K. Rool, Bowser Jr., Roy, Mewtwo, Blaziken, Gardivour, and yup, even Geno) are just reduced 
 to cameos and trophies. And even more suprising, Kirby, Meta-Knight, and King Dedede only get the 
 Halberd and Green Greens to call "home turf"!
  
  Stage builder will probably be one those features to become a part of smash forever. You only get 
 three backgrounds, some blocks, about 8 total structures, and some nifty features (like dropping 
 floors, ice blocks, and eventually, conveyor belts, spring boards, and a rotating wheel) . Though 
 there isn't much, if you've got a good imagination, the right tune, and some spare time, you can 
 create some pretty cool stuff. Though it won't be good as the game's stages, you can still create 
 a stage that you'll like. I've already built a neat looking elevator shaft stage with a MGS tune 
 and somewhat imperfect recreation of Donut Lifts with respectful music. Too bad you can't use them 
 online.
  
  Some of the extra features are good, some useless. You'll probably never use rotation. Trophies 
 and stickers (which stickers can also be used in SSE) can be used to create funny little scenes 
 that do not invovle brawling. The snapshot feature being built into the pause screen is actually 
 very useful, especially when a funny moment in a battle happens. You can host a tourney if you 
 want, but the whole Masterpieces section isn't really worth it, especially if you've already got 
 the games or want more than 45 seconds worth of playtime.
  
  Online is okay, but it could have been better. The lack of voice chat is actually a good thing, 
 since wi-fi doesn't always garuntee a good connection. If battling with friends, you can create 
 4 "taunt messages" that you can assign in your taunts. It would have been nice if you could set 
 up rules and have people just search for them in the with anyone battles, but overall, the online 
 will be better than just fighting CPUs all day.
  
  So overall, Brawl isn't pure disaster but it's not perfect either. But it will certainly replace 
 Melee by far. It's really bad that the GCN/Wii/DS generations didn't get much representation, since 
 that's were all the newcomming fans began playing Nintendo. Brawl is good though, and if you can 
 find something that you like (which you certainly can) , then it won't be that bad. It does do this: 
 It makes you want the next smash (if there is one) even more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogloe
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  2006: I waited as I watched two measely videos. 2007: The Dojo is finally up and running. My anticipation 
 grows greater as more exciting updates approach. The release date is December 3. Later Delayed 
 till February 10 2008. 2008: Smash bros. is delayed to March 9. Then finally the game was released. 
 Now the question is, "was it worth the wait?"
  The answer is simple. YES! I'll start on Group mode. Now first in group is Brawl. This is the where 
 you duke it out with four players that can choose from a roster of up too 35! With more items more 
 characters and the most anticipated feature, the final smash, you and your friends will be satisfied 
 to no end. You can also customize your Brawls in special Brawl. Even more customizable then ever 
 you can now be big and invisible or tiny with 300% damage. Want to see who can truly dominate? 
 Try out Tourney mode which is better than ever. And this is just the beggining!
  Solo mode is next. Just like group this brings unlimited fun in its features. You can kick Primid 
 can in the Subspace Emmisary or do it with a friend. About the most cinimatic story mode ever and 
 a long satisfying play time you'll fall in love with this mode. Wait there is more! O.0 As always 
 classic mode has returned almost no diffrent. However it is now much longer with a few added battles. 
 You can't do it with a friend but it still retains its charm. Also returning are the arenas. All 
 of them are now two player which means: twice the homerun distance, twice the 100 man brawl domination, 
 and twice the target breaking. *pant pant pant* There's still more!
  Now for another anticipated feature, wifi mode! This is also all it has cracked up to be. You can 
 customize Brawls of all sorts across the country with friends. Now you may be worried about lag 
 right? WRONG! Unless your across the world your lag should be cut down. I played with somebody 
 across the country with very little lag. As if playing and exchanging with friends wasn't enough 
 you can also battle with random people from across the globe! Team up or go solo you are on a mission 
 to make the most kills. Okay all of these new features are cool but your tired. Why don't you settle 
 down and spectate a match? Now you can watch other people battle onlline and bet your coins on 
 them. Here are some other relaxing none wifi modes.
  Look into the vault. There you can mess around with trophies and stickers or risk your coins in 
 the coin shooter to earn more! You have a great idea for a Brawl stage? With the new effective 
 stage builder you'll be making it in no time. Look at some cooky pictures you made or relive some 
 of your best moments in replays. With even more that I can't mention the vault will be the play 
 to take a break.
  So no matter who you are, Brawl has something for everyone. From all that Brawl has bestowed upon 
 us I feel lucky it wasn't delayed again. This game is truly amazing and is ranked.....
  BEST GAME EVER (in other words its the reason to have a wii) :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boris_Fan_279
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 10:39 pm PT
Review:  The third installment in the Smash Bros. series really takes the cake.
  
  Gameplay 9 1/2/10 
  If you haven't been living under a rock for your whole life, you would know 
 that Smash Bros. Is a Platforming-fighting game series. The gameplay in Super Smash Bros. Brawl 
 is just that. Select a fighter, an opponent, change the options to your liking, select a stage, 
 then fight! But that's not all! There is MANY other things for you to do in the game! Such as collecting 
 Trophies and Stickers, and create stages. Have fun!
  
  Controls 9/10
  The controls all depend on which controller you are using. You could use the Gamecube controller, 
 Wii Remote and Nunchuck, or the Classic Controller. Through personal experience, the Gamecube controller 
 is your best bet, but that's just me. 
  
  Graphics 8 1/2/10
  They certainly improved form Melee, but don't look COMEPLETELY professional. But who cares about 
 graphics?
  
  Music 9 1/2/10
  There are TONS of songs to select in this game. Most of them are good, but some just........ I don't 
 know...... are pointless. For example: The Crush 40 version of "His World" is in the game. If you 
 love the song as much as me, then you're probably excited. BUT, Nintendo was cruel enough to actually 
 only put an instrumental version of it in there. WTF? Why would you do that? What's the point? 
 If you take the vocals out of that song, than it's not a song. (or a very good song.) Another thing 
 that caught my attention is that you cant have any Brawl tunes play on the Melee stages.
  
  Sound Effects 10/10
  There isn't anything wrong with the sound effects. Most of them are brought 
 over from the previous Super Smash Bros. titles. But this time, there's actually English voice 
 acting! HURAY!
  
  Plot /10
  There's actually a plot in this game. But I don't want to spoil you, so I wont type anything here. 
 (I'm so lazy.)
  
  Replay Value 10/10
  Trust me, you WILL be coming back to this game many times. There's HUNDREDS of things for you to 
 unlock.
  
  Bad things about the game:
  The loading screens are long and boring, the event matches are pretty stupid and easy, the stage 
 builder is WAY too restricted, and many other annoying things are in this game.
  
  Rent or Buy?
  Um, DUH! Buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cherubidude
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  i did expect a little bit more, but all togther, i thought, it was the best game on any system 
 i've ever played! A recommended game for any nintendo, or action lover alike. in melee, my style 
 wasn't really incorporated into the characters, but i think that brawl, is a fresh start for everyone, 
 giving that all new characters, stages, mdes, and controller possibilities! The new one player 
 game, the subspace emmissary, is a choice of difficuty, choices that will effect your playing experience, 
 and backrounds that have a new swing on things. videos are added to this lvl of installment, including 
 main bosses, continuing stories, get togethers, and reoccurinces, that keep the game going. all 
 in all, i think it was, and will be, the best game of the year! (or five :0) some completions to 
 this game is that sonic, and snake have joined the brawl, even with minimal links to the nintendo 
 gaming world, offering a whole new perspctive on why this game should recieve the utmost honor 
 in beingbought, played, saved, and cherished for many years to come... -,- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacsan456
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  Brawl is the best thing that happened since melee the game just blew my mind when i first put it 
 in playing as solid snake beatin up mario and sonic awesome i mean who doesn't want to do that?
 
  
  Another thing is the gameplay it is just plain fun the slick controllers work just well the characters 
 are amazing  the list just goes on and the new stages are cool too 
 the new super moves are a great new edition they are awesome cool and fun to look at as your character 
 smashes the commpetion .
  
  Another thing thats cool is the create a stage option that right there is cool becease you could 
 create the most craziest stage ever or the most confusing stage ever there are just so many stages 
 you could make i would of liked a create a charecter option but oh well this works perfect and 
 it is more funner to do i like this game stlye!
  
  so final verdict
  graphics: awesome the best i have ever seen on SSBB
  characters: amazing an cool to play with 
 
  gameplay: intense ane realy fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vexx88
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl
  
  Super smash bros came on the scene in spring of '99. It is a fighting/brawler that pitted Nintendo 
 characters in with each other to duke it out. It was intentionally a pet project for Nintendo to 
 see how people reacted it got good scores and was praised by fans. So in 2001 after the Gamecube 
 was released. Super Smash Bros Melee was released. The reaction was explosive making it the top 
 most selling Gamecube game of all time and One of the fastest selling Nintendo game of all time. 
 The Game was just plain fun that simple. 
  Then Nintendo announced Super Smash Bros Brawl in January of 07 and People demanded it. 
  Most 
 people have been waiting for this game for month's heck maybe even years since Melee was released. 
 Although it got delayed twice it finally was released. They begged for online, they begged for 
 new characters and game modes.
  
  Nintendo delivered with flying colors.
  
  If you have been playing since the first game you will notice the drastic change of speed from 
 SSB (Super smash bros.) to SSBM (Super Smash Bros Melee) A lot of people said that it was a little 
 to fast. So in Brawl they reduced the speed but not so much that it comes to slow for Melee vets, 
 although I played hours upon hours on Melee it took a little time to get used to the change in 
 speed. Think of the speed as this SSB-Slow (for these 3 games) SSBM- Fast, and SSBB- As Medium 
 and perfected
  
  The most notable new feature they have added is the ability to have 4 controller types.
  
  
 Melee vets will probably end up just using the good ol' reliable. The Gamecube controller it remained 
 unchanged and fine tuned. For newcomers they might think the Gamecube controller is a little archaic 
 for a brand spanking new Wii game. The other 3 controller types are the Wiimote turned sideways. 
 Wiimote + Nunchuck attachment and the Classic controller. The Wiimote sideways is one of the best 
 controller types with the simple interface. The only problem with it is the basic controller layout 
 is the B button is the shield and it will feel awkward since the B button is made for the Wiimote 
 turned Vertical. No need to worry though this time around you can customize your controller by 
 assigning button layouts! Back to the controllers. 
  
  The wiimote and nunchuck attachment is probably the craziest one I have seen. The button layout 
 is pretty good and you even have the ability to shake the wiimote to do Smash attacks which can 
 be toggled on and off. The Classic controller is probably people who are used to the gamecube controllers 
 second best being that the button assignment is the same but, remember that the classic is based 
 off of the SNES controller there for the A button is off to the side rather than being in the middle 
 like the cubes. Its easy to get used to though. 
  
  As for the roster, I will not spoil any characters for you but I will say this for a fighting-party 
 game the roster is staggering after everything is done with you should have a grand total of 35 
 characters. Rivaling Street Fighter and Tekken games. If you want to get technical there is 39 
 characters if you count every form. The thing this time around is there are no clones of characters 
 (different character same moves as another character) There were a lot of clones in Melee. This 
 time around that is not a factor with all the characters having different move sets, although some 
 characters are similar but, hey what fighting game does not have at least two similar characters. 
 Also this time around there are no overpowered or underpowered characters balancing out the character 
 list. 
  
  Before I jump into gameplay. Final Smashes are the new thing. If you beat the crap out of this 
 floating ball that appears (you will know when you see it) you are able to use a Final Smash for 
 that character by pressing the Special Button without moving the control stick. It gives you a 
 burst of power that usually renders the opposition in pain and chaos usually causing devastating 
 results.
  
  As for gameplay options Solo mode classic has been revamped by having mostly fights "Race to the 
 finish" and "Collect the trophies" mini games have been removed giving you 2 target test 9 fights 
 and then a final fight with the infamous Master Hand. Adventure mode is now the most important 
 gameplay element. Last time is was just a watered down platformer with lots of elements, that could 
 easily be finished like classic mode giving you a feeling like "That was an adventure?" That I 
 would call being lazy. This time however it is really long involving all the characters, story 
 elements, and allows you to unlock almost all of the characters playing through it. Normally for 
 anyone it could take you up to 8 hours to finish. Although near the end of Adventure can be quite 
 annoying. They give you a maze and make you go through every stage and every boss over again. Other 
 than that its great.
  
  Stadium mode is basically the same except now all the modes are 2 player :P. Homerun Contest, Multi-man 
 Brawl (used to be Multi-man Melee but the title of the game is different folks!) , and Target Test. 
 Homerun is nowwell brutally easy for the fact that there is now a barrier around the place where 
 you whack the sandbag and then pick up the bat and smack as far as you can. So now that the bag 
 can't fall of the little platform you start on you can hit a bunch of times time it just right 
 so when time runs out when you hit it with the bat so you don't have to break through the barrier 
 when it goes down so you get further distance. Multi-man is the same. Nothing has changed except 
 now after you beat all of the now called Alloys instead of wire frames you fight a clone of yourself 
 at the end. Target Test now has 5 levels for the 5 difficulties in the game. The only thing now 
 is that everyone's layout for the levels are all the same unlike melee when they had different 
 layouts for the targets for all the charcters. Event matches are the same except there is 10 less 
 than the last game although now you also have co-op event matches for 2 people. As for group mode 
 (Versus) it is the same except that now Special Brawls are totally customizable. Now you can have 
 that Metal Bunny hood super sudden death you always wanted.
  
  The Vault- Basically the storage facility for brawl. Where your trophies are kept. You can also 
 make a diorama for all your trophies. Stickers are used in Adventure Mode to power up your characters 
 and they are also displayed here. Coin Launcher has now replaced the lottery mode from last year 
 and instead it's a shooting game where you shoot the trophies and stickers with coins to obtain 
 them, more fun than it sounds trust me. Masterpieces is something that will just make you say "awe" 
 this place lets you have a trial of games past that are available for download on the Wii shop 
 channel. Note though, all of the games featured are timed not complete that level and its over. 
 Not all of the games from the Wii-shop are on brawl of course only games involving the characters 
 that are in Brawl. There is also a newly added Stage Builder *gasp* You can now create your own 
 stages. You can sit there for hours trying to make some diabolical trap based stage but, your options 
 are limited compared to other games with stage builders. Screenshots can now be taken at anytime 
 during a pause screen making photo's easier to take. Album in the vault is where you can see all 
 of your screenshots. Replays are also a nice new addition which you can take after most matches. 
 They are also displayed here in the Vault.
  You can also send replays and screenshots to friends on your friends list over Nintendo Wifi connection!
 
  
  Online is kind of touch and go sometimes if you are not playing with friends. You can have up to 
 64 friends on your friends list which is probably the largest amount of friends I have seen you 
 can have for a Nintendo Wifi Connection game. You can do basic things online. With Anyone- Random 
 people that just pop into a match. You can Brawl, Team Battle or a new added feature for online 
 only which is you can be Spectator in spectator mode. Which not only allows you to sit back and 
 watch a match but allows you to bet your coins on who will win and if you character (s) that you 
 bet on win you get the jackpot of how ever many coins you put in. With friends options are much 
 more diverse allowing you to team up with a buddy and do multi-man brawl together, and team up 
 to do Homerun contest together. (you can also do 2 player multi-man and 2 player homerun offline 
 as well) . Lag online is rareextremely rare unless your connection is just garbage.
  
  That's basically everything about Brawl I had to say. With so much content every Wii owner should 
 own this game. Some people bought Wii's just for this game. If you have a wii and don't have this 
 game. Buy it. Buy it Now. This game is just a Prime example of time and perfection will do for 
 you.
  
  10/10
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: codalloo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Perfection!! The best Wii title to date by faaaar!!! This game is so damn good, I've been waiting 
 forever for it and it's finally here, this is the reason I bought a Wii! If you own a Wii then 
 you need this game!
  The game consists of multiple characters from Nintendo's history duking it out in huge, super fun 
 battles!! There's so many characters to choose from, a huge variety of stages and items up the 
 yingyang! The multiplayer for this game is where it's at, but the single player isn't too shabby 
 either, it does get kinda boring after a while but the awesome CG cutscenes and rewards you get 
 for playing through the Subspace Emissary are worth the playthrough. The multiplayer in this game 
 is fantastic and words can't do it justice, it's AWESOME! AND there's wi-fi so you can beat up 
 anyone from around the world! this game never gets boring! buy it NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazay88
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  it's just so great , there is so much to do and the graphics are crisp and the gameplay is smooth 
 , loading is not a problem.
  
  you can finally battle out sonic v. s. mario and do so much more , the characters are always as 
 fun as always and no freaking jigglypuff (i think)
  
  the stages are amazing
  you can create your own amazing stage (lol)
  4 types of controles
  like i think around 30 characters 
 to play with
  subspace emmisary is a perfect adventure mode
  you always have your classic mode to (for solo)
  brawl is amazing with your friends or not
  
 special brawl is hilarious
  demo's of virtual console games inside!
  stickers and trophies to collect!
  customize your character in subspace emmisary with special 
 stickers
  save pictures and videos
  ANd So mUcH MoRe!!!
  
  MUST BUY!
  
  that's all that's it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pro_gamer12345
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo first debuted the Super Smash series for the N64 in 1999. Then came Super Smash Brothers 
 Melee in 2001. Later on after many delays came Super Smash Brothers Brawl in 2008. It will be the 
 third game in one of the best series in the gaming world. But is Brawl worth the delays and better 
 than the first 2?
  
  Story: The game offers a whole new thing called the Sup Space Emissary. It is a side scroller where 
 you get different characters to join your party to stop these evil dudes. ( I won't spoil it for 
 some of you) Sure you may think it sounds very cheesy. Well it ain't as cheesy as you think it 
 is. This mode gets boring really fast but it gets semi-boring with 2 players. The Sup Space Emissary 
 allows for co-op play which works out fine. It gets repetitive very fast and you may need to make 
 yourself sit through this and play the entire mode. Then you got the Original Classic Mode. Some 
 of you veterans should know what it is. If you don't its basically a mode where you take one character, 
 set your number of lives and your difficulty and fight various characters. That's about it for 
 the story mode experience. 
  
  Gameplay: Unlike most fighting games Brawl doesn't have health bars or specific combos you need 
 to follow. You need to make your own. Brawl's objective is to knock off your opponents off the 
 stage. As you damage your opponent their health percentage goes up allowing for a smash attack 
 and they will go flying. Simple right? Well... some veterans are highly skilled at the game and 
 will make a challenge. Addition to the "unique" gameplay you could set your own rules such as time, 
 stocks, coin, and etc. The whole point of coin is to attack your opponents and make coins fly out 
 of them and you pick them up. After the timer runs out whoever has the most money wins. You could 
 set what items you want in the game. If you want no items you could change that. If you want every 
 item you could change it. If you want some items you could change it as well. The game offers alot 
 of items such as the bumper, gooey bomb, the infamous crate and barrels, the ray gun, the scope 
 gun and whole lot more. Well as some of you may know there is something called the final smash 
 which allows whoever gets it unleash a powerful attack. I think all of you know. Well you start 
 out with 12 characters and get 35 characters later. Atleast one character will be meant for you. 
 There are a total of 41 bizarre stages including 10 melee stages. As you may know Snake and Sonic 
 joins the brawl. So you may want to try them out. The game also offers wi-fi battle for online 
 play. I won't say much about this because the lag is absolutely horrible. Let's hope Nintendo could 
 fix that. Well Brawl comes with it's own friend code. And it works fairly fine. You could have 
 a 1v1 1v1v1v1, 2v2, have a homerun contest together or have multi-man brawl together. Multi-man 
 brawl is a game mode where series of some polygon people come at you and you kill them. Simple 
 as that. One problem.... it gets harder and harder as you take more and more damage. When playing 
 with your friend the game barely lags and it works very smoothly. 
  
  
  Sound: The music in each stage fits them perfectly. I could not say more. Almost every music in 
 the game is orchestrated which gives it an epic feel to it. I guarantee you that you will love 
 at least one song from the many stages. 
  
  
  Controls: This is one of the most unique part of the game. It offers 4 types of controls. You could 
 play with the classic controller, Wiimote, Wiimote and nunchuk, and the gamecube controller. For 
 some of you, you may want to look for those gamecube controllers or pick some up at your local 
 gamestore. The other modes take some time getting used to. Addition to that you could customize 
 the buttons on the controller to however you feel like and whatever your most comfortable with. 
 
  
  
  Value: Yes. This game is worth every penny you pay for. This is one the best multiplayer/party 
 games to play with. When playing with lvl 9 computers the game is epic but gets old fast. When 
 playing with people the game doesn't get boring after a whole lot of time passes by. 
  
  
  I just told you like 50% what the game has to offer. Trust me. The game offers a WHOLE lot 
 more. The game does have it's down side though. Like I said before The Sub Space Emissary is very 
 repetitive and you will need to sit through it to unlock every character. The online isn't as good. 
 Lets hope they can fix it. The online has no Leader Boards or stats whatsoever and they took out 
 "wave dashing and L-canceling. For some of the melee veterans that must be bad news. Well... look 
 on the bright side... this game is epic. Thats about it for the cons. The game is worth every penny 
 you spend. And yes. The game is worth the wait after many delays and the game is better than the 
 first 2 and offers a whole lot of content. You will be playing this game from the day you get it 
 and for many years to come. 
  This game is the most epic game for the WII right now and possibly one of the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamecontrol13
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  This game is incredibly good. The only flaw i've seen so far is the lag it has online, but thats 
 okay cuz u don't need online to enjoy this game. Just play it with friends like it was made to 
 be. Don't listen to the people say it sucks cuz online sucks and online is the only thing on here. 
 Online is a bonus end of story. I've had fun just kickin the crap out of my friends. Also, the 
 adventure mode the subspac emmisanary is awsome too. That can keep you busy for easily 3 days if 
 you are an intense videogamer. More time if you are not. Lastly, the stage builder is nice. Its 
 really fune to design your own stage then play on it. You can even name your stage too. Well thats 
 about it besides what i said there is even more you can do than what i said its just that i don't 
 want to be here all day going on how awsome this game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud7254
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  Ok, so I went out and got this game after hearing some awesome things about it from my friends. 
 But, WOW!!!! I never expected the gameplay to be so good. Multiplayer mode is definetly flawless, 
 and the addition of the new characters is great. This game is never going to get old, no matter 
 how many times you play it. 
  
  Subspace Emissary: Ok, even though I havent quite beat it yet, its still really good. I took some 
 time, sat down and really enjoy this mode. The cutscenes are just beautiful, but the story overall 
 is a little repedative.
  
  Characters: The only problem i really see with the players is the duplicates. Thats right, im talking 
 about; Falco, Fox, and Wolf. these guys are all still really great players, but they are exact 
 duplicates of each other. They have the exact same final smash, the exact same moves, and they 
 are all basically the same.
  
  
  Overall: One of the, If not the best, WII game to come out or to ever come out. Well worth the 
 money to go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoshiRules123
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2008 5:20 am PT
Review:  This game shall never stop being sold. even after earth blows up and we all die, shop keepers should 
 still keep this game on the store rack. with stage builder, selecting songs for stages, an awsome 
 adventure mode, millions of characters, and (of course) online play, this game will be the game 
 of 2008, 09, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, and so on! this game truly is a Brawl. get ready to invite 
 your friends over, cuz this game will keep u guys occupied for several more years! Ive unlocked 
 every character... cept 4 Wolf Odonnel, who i really look forward to playing as. even if he is 
 a clone. does anyone know how to unlock him? PM me.
  My top 5 favorite characters are (in order) Meta Knight, Link, Yoshi, Wolf, and Lucario. well, 
 dont know about wolf, since i dont have him yet. hope to get him soon!
  ps: toon link is cool, 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weirderthanu210
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 5:06 am PT
Review:  The Super Smash Bros. Series has always been a series to have fun with. Super Smash Bros. set the 
 bar when it was first released in 1999 on the N64. It was considered the game to own if you had 
 an N64. When Super Smash Bros. Melee was released, people thought there would not be a third version 
 due to the greatness of the game. Well, 7 years later Super Smash Bros. Brawl was released and 
 it does not let down.
  
  Graphics
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl's graphics are absolutely amazing! Not a lot of people expected this mainly 
 because the game is mainly for gameplay. When I first played this game, my impressions were "Oh 
 My God! These graphics are awesome!" There is some much detail in the moves and in the actual character. 
 Plus the stages look great!
  
  Gameplay
  This is what Smash is about, gameplay. I've been able to tell that they really worked hard on this. 
 The gameplay is just awesome. All the moves in the game are very well done! The controller also 
 works very fast. Right when you press B it punches. There is no lag. The one thing a lot of reviewers 
 didn't notice was that the game is a lot slower paced. The characters don't go straight after you 
 and try to knock you off the level. If you go after them they will run away and get in perfect 
 position for them to knock you. It seems like there is less gravity too. This is a good thing because 
 there are more combo attacks. To conclude this part of the review, I would like to say the Final 
 Smashes are done perfectly. The Smash Ball is hard to get, but when you execute it, you have the 
 best time of your life!
  
  Charcters
  The characters in this game are great. In the past games there would be really crappy characters 
 and really good characters. In this game, it's the same case. But there are more better characters 
 and less crappy ones. Compared to Melee, these characters are so much better.
  
  Game Modes
  The game modes are quite fun. The classic mode is very basic, but is harder than 
 the last game. It can be very repetitive though. All you do is go through stages and beat other 
 characters. They still have target test, but no more race to the finish. Also, the Master Hand 
 is a lot harder. I used to be able to do it in the first try, now it takes me a few. The Subspace 
 Emissary is fun, but annoying. You go through random levels and get new characters. You see beautiful 
 cut-scenes, but they are short with no dialog. When you get to 50% it gets extremely ANNOYING AND 
 HARD!!! But once past that its easy again! The Nintendo WiFi is a big part of the game. It's multiplayer 
 pretty much. That's all I can say.
  
  Closing
  To end this I would like to say, if you plan on buying this game, buy it for the multiplayer, not 
 for single. It's a fun single player experience, but the multiplayer is what it's for!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick31189
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2008 12:19 am PT
Review:  This game is great, its really fun, probably one the funnest games i have ever played. It has great 
 mutliplayer which will keep playing this game for years to come. One of the things thats is great 
 about this game is the character roster, never before has there been 3rd party characters in a 
 smash brothers game. The soundtrack is definably one of the best. It has so much nostalgic value 
 to it. The redone a lot of the songs, but they still have the same value they once had. For example 
 the have even songs on their that aren't even part of the game, like 1080 snowboarding "Golden 
 forest". You can set the music the way you like so u can hear the songs u want to hear playing 
 that stage. There is over 450 different songs in the game. The Subspace emissary's is a nice new 
 part to the game, but definably not the reason to get it. The CGI'S are Gorgeous. The graphics 
 run really smooth too, at a nice pace of 60 fps. The graphics are really good too. There is even 
 a ton of stuff too unlock , like trail versions of the games where the characters originated from. 
 Another cool thing about the game is that you can use any controller you feel like using. My personally 
 favorite is the Gamecube controller, and Classic, but you can use the wii-mote on its side, also 
 the wii-mote and nunchack. You can go even further and customize the controls the way u want them 
 personally. This wonderfull game can also be played with 4 people on online. What are u doing reading 
 this review go out and get this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razgard4612
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Yea so this game doesnt disappoint. it is definitely awesome. like a bazillion different things 
 to collect. this game will keep you entertained for quite awhile even if your just playing by yourself. 
 but who buy a Super Smash Bros. game and doest play it with anyone else. ill tel you who NOBODY. 
 
  The space Emisary mode is cool. it provides story and is really entertaining. The cutscenes are 
 especially sweet since you get to see all but a couple characters bust some sweet moves in them. 
 They have the classic mode which is pretty much the same thing just some stages change. They have 
 more challenges now to keep you occupied and to test your skill.
  
  Now for my multiplayer part. The multiplayer is just as amazing as it always has been. super customizable 
 battles. 35 characters. and even with 35 cahracters it is still pretty balanced. there really isnt 
 a guy who can totally pwn (kil everyone) super easy. Barely any lag online. But one of my favorite 
 things isn't the fact that you can change the color and stuff of you person to distinguish from 
 other people with same guy but that just about every character has like a demon version. they are 
 all black and like red eyes. multiplayer is one of the main reasons if not the main reason you 
 should buy this game.
  
  besides all that there is so much to collect. im not going to even try to count all the trophies, 
 stickers, songs, stages (heck you can even make your own stages) , and everything else you can collect.
 
  
  this game is so close to perfect for me. its just that they have to stop adding fox/falco/wolf 
 characters. they are a little bit different but i would rather have a completely new guy. there 
 are also a couple of other little details.
  
  its great to remember all the past great games you have played with all the characters in brawl. 
 you have people from Mr. game and watch to Solid Snake. to the classics like Mario and Sonic. it 
 will definately be played till the next Super Smash Bros. comes out. and probably even after the 
 next one comes out. i know i have played the original alot even though melee and brawl are out. 
 this is totally a buy. heck buy two just so you can rub it in someones face. or just to demonstrate 
 how awesome you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KJS77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  When it debuted in 1999, Super Smash brothers was a surprise hit. A small budget game, originally 
 released only in Japan, took the world by storm, eventually selling nearly five million copies. 
 With the Nintendo Gamecube came Super Smash Brothers: Melee, a game which built on the foundation 
 of the original and added new features to make it far surpass the N64 version. Melee has sold over 
 seven million copies.
  
  It was inevitable that Nintendo would follow up on the success with a title for their new system, 
 and in October of 2005, development on the new Smash brothers game began. Nearly two and a half 
 years later, after countless waiting , delays, and anticipation, Brawl is finally here. And, if 
 I do say so myself, it is well worth the wait.
  
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Super Smash Brothers Brawl is very much like its predecessors. The goal is to knock your opponents 
 off of the stage, while avoiding being knocked off yourself. Although it seems simple, it can be 
 quite difficult with three other players, items, and stage hazards surrounding you. Te fighting 
 in Brawl has a frantic pace, even more so, I think, than Melee or the original. 
  
  There are nearly forty different characters to chose from, all with different moves, strengths, 
 and weaknesses (Nintendo has removed most of the 'clones' that were in Melee) . However, only 21 
 of these characters are available from the start. The rest have to be unlocked by either playing 
 a certain number of multiplayer matches, or fulfilling some other requirement. 
  
  Items come in many different forms in Brawl. They range from the familiar beam swords and home 
 run bats, to the new items like the Gooey Bomb, which sticks to whatever it hits. 'Serious' players 
 can turn off the items if they wish to, as well.
  
  The new item that stands out the most is the smash ball. When one of these appears and begins to 
 float around the stage, everybody will stop fighting each other and try to attack it. This is because 
 the smash ball when broken, grants whoever attacked it an extremely powerful attack that, if it 
 hits, causes major damage, if not a one-hit knockout. These can also be turned off like regular 
 items.
  
  Single player mode: A single player can choose to either play 'classic mode', where in each stage 
 the player faces an opponent, or opponents, to defeat; or to play the new adventure mode, the Subspace 
 Emissary. This game mode brings the first storyline to a Smash game. In this game mode, there are 
 many different play stiles: there are the normal battle stages, but there are also stages that 
 must be traveled through, bosses, and more. 
  
  Smash games are not known for their one-player modes, and the developers tried to fix that with 
 the Emissary. While it's a fun diversion for when there's no one else to play, it still cant measure 
 up to multiplayer mode. 
  
  Multiplayer mode: This is where Brawl truly shines. There's nothing like getting together with 
 your friends to play a game of Smash Brothers, and Brawl has improved it even more. There are plenty 
 of new and old stages to choose from (many of which have to be unlocked) , and Brawl also offers 
 the player the ability to create their own stages. There are also many different special modes, 
 such as stamina mode and fast motion mode. For the first time, these modes can be combined.
  
  SCORE: 96/100
  
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Here's the one part of the game that's not exactly 
 outstanding. While the game looks great, the graphics really aren't that much of an improvement 
 over those in Melee. While the graphics are still very good, they just don't stand out like the 
 rest of the game.
  
  SCORE: 81/100
  
  MUSIC/SOUND: Brawl includes a new feature that allows users to chose which songs they want to hear 
 in a stage. With about four song choices for each stage, this gives a great amount of freedom as 
 to what music is played. Most of the music in the game is fully orchestrated, unless it's not supposed 
 to be (music from old games and the like) .
  
  While the sound effects aren't really a focal point of the game, the grunts, thuds and explosions 
 all sound great.
  
  SCORE: 95/100
  
  REPLAY VALUE: Replay value just doesn't get much better than this. With all of the options, along 
 with the fact that every fight is different, Brawl offers an almost infinite amount of replay value.
 
  
  SCORE: 100/100
  
  
  MISCELLANEOUS: You can tell that a lot of hard work was put into this game, and that it wasn't 
 rushed. It now includes wi-fi access, which allows you to play with anybody else connected if your 
 friends can't come over (or if you have none, whatever the case may be) . Loading times can be a 
 problem at times, but nothing too bad.
  
  SCORE: 94/100
  
  FINAL WORD: Brawl is a must-own for anybody that has a Wii. The sheer quality and fun of this game 
 makes it more than worth the 50 bucks you'll pay for it. Do yourself a favor, and go buy Brawl 
 now (or whenever you can next) .
  
  FINAL SCORE: 93/100 A 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer-XZ
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. has been one my favorite Nintendo franchises of all time, ever since the original 
 N64 title that was released back in 1999. I've been anticipating Brawl for very long, much like 
 everyone else, but after all the delays, rumors, and speculation buzzing around the world, it is 
 finnally here, and I'm here to say this about the game: It. f'ing. owns.
  First of all, everyone from the original and melee (minus Dr. Mario, Mewtwo, Roy, etc.) has come 
 back to get their brawl on, along with newcomers Wario, Zero Suit Samus, Captain Olimar, Pit, Lucas, 
 and others, and also including two surprise guests: Solid Snake and Sonic the Hedgehog. I played 
 as every character in the game, some are easy to play as, while others tend to have a bit of a 
 learning curve, but overall, the entire roster is very balanced.
  The new stages in the game are amazing as well, some of my favorites include Warioware inc., Green 
 Hill Zone, Pictochat, and other stages.
  The Subspace Emissary, an all new version of the adventure mode, has a great story in which you 
 fight against and army of creatures lead by the Ancient Minister, who himself is controlled by 
 an even greater threat...
  Online matches work like a charm, with barely any lag problems at all, and collecting trophies 
 and stickers are more fun to do than in melee.
  Overall, Super Smash Bros. Brawl has been one of the absolute best Nintendo games I have ever played 
 by far, ever since Super Mario 64, and I'm hoping to play it for years to come on my Wii. Thank 
 you, Nintendo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_planty45
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  When someone asks you how was Brawl....... The first thing you will say is that it is AMAZING!!!! 
 It was worth the wait and for now I have no life because of smash... Countless Brawl parties. AMAZING!!!!
 
  
  But to the point...
  The graphics on this game are beautiful. If only Wii had HD it would be heart stopping.. The graphics 
 run smoothly with no glitches or crap like that... So it can make you cry....
  
  Gameplay.. The gameplay is similar to the originals.. With many choices to choose from controller 
 wise.. its up to you.. I stick with the gamecube remote because it just feels more natural.. But 
 one problem I do have is that the gameplay does feel a bit slower then die hard smash fans are 
 use to.. So it can be upsetting...
  
  There are a butt load of characters now... Some I would say are just put in to be put in.. I did 
 get mad on how they change some characters moves and made some slower or less powerful... The ones 
 you would notice the most is Donkey Kong.. Which he is freakin beast cause he is pretty damn powerful.. 
 But the one everyone notices is IKE... Uber POWER... So if you want to be the NOOB of the party choose 
 him cause it takes no skill to use him.. LOL.. But the rest are pretty much straight foward each 
 person can counter another character in the game..
  
  The story of the game is pretty good.. It can range from at least 8-12 hours depending on how good 
 you are and the difficulty you choose.. Not much to say about the story but it is a good one and 
 prepare for some fun on it..
  
  So for me it is a MUST have game...
  let me repeat
  MUST HAVE GAME...
  Overall I give it a 9.5...
  
  The only reason it lost so many points for 
 me is due to its online... Lets just say nintendo is horrible with there online capabilities.. 
 Hard to find matches, no names for people you are playing and one thing that bothers me the most 
 is no mic... I am a trash talker cause i can back it up.. So due to nintendos weak "SAFE" online 
 thing they are trying to pull of is ruining the game from being nearly perfect.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KoGfullmetal980
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl makes the Wii. No joke, if you own one, and don't have this... you better 
 a have a damn well good excuse. 35 characters for EXTREME BRAWLING. I only have played for about 
 3 hours... cuz I only play it at my friend's house, but oh my, I am amazed. When I say "revolutionary", 
 I MEAN IT! This game has revolutionize the way the world will look at the Wii. It is the same basic 
 concept as Melee, but has a new feature, the "Subspace Emissary" It's a classic mode... but 10X 
 longer. Keeps you entertained. But it's still fun to hit the Brawl mode with friends or CPU and 
 show your stuff! Favorite characters for me are all newcomers: Olimar, Toon Link, and Snake. Olimar 
 and Snake are difficult to control, but worth it, and Toon Link is Young Link's replacement. The 
 same thing, just the Wind Waker version. All in all, THIS GAME IS THE BOMB! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roll450
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  As almost every knew brawl was going to come out last year of 2007 on December, and It started 
 to get hyped by then. But as time flew by they showed tons of updates on the brawl web site on 
 the Dojo. By then they announced wifi but before that everyone was worried that brawl wasn't going 
 to have wi-fi. But they where wrong it did with one of the most exciting online play out there 
 for the wii. Even it keeps you busy until sundown to sunup which I find kinda amazing. Also with 
 the added 3rd party characters which are Snake & Sonic, then the hype grew entirely. Now after 
 countless delays (in which where only 3 delays) Brawl has finally came out.
  
  Game play: To define it's game play its just spectacular its impossible to beat, its more like 
 playing COD4 online but even better. Its even better because the simplistic controls made it really 
 easy to pick up and play unlike alot of fighters which take some time getting used to while your 
 mindlessly jamming buttons on the acrcade machine. But this one ( Which is SSBB) make it a turn 
 down its real easy, you pick it up knock your friends off the stage and thats it. But at the same 
 time it takes skill to knock people off the stage online.
  
  - Now the Single player just blows your mind since your playing with another person on SSE (Sub-space 
 Emissionary) On the Sub space you are mostly going through it like a scroller which is good since, 
 if it was a roam around in 3-D, which would be really confusing even it's sort of like Soul caliber 
 2 since your picking your places on a over view map, but at the same time when you venture through 
 some of the SSE stages you notice that they have drawn out backgrounds to make the game go faster 
 but it doesn't effect game play that much .Now on Event mode and puts you and your friend on another 
 list of events to battle on, which is a really good idea to put in since the amount of events they 
 put in are just 41 including the hidden on in that list. Then theres classic mode which is way 
 more better and makes it harder for Smash Veterans that have been playing Classic mode on Very 
 hard on Melee, even theres a few more added levels on classic to make you play it longer. Then 
 there are originals brought back into the mix which are Home run contest & Multi-man Brawl They 
 have been anted up even more to give it a even harder but at the same time you can play with your 
 friends on and offline on these 2 modes to make it competitive and fun. Lastly there's all star 
 mode which the same thing you can have another person play with you or you can play by your self 
 defeating all 35 characters. Then theres all start boss mode, which pits you against all the bosses 
 you have fought with in the SSE and to see how fast you can kill your bosses to compete with the 
 highest score in your character roster.
  
  - Then the Multiplayer just off the wall gets you and keeps you addicted for hours and hours like 
 having your friends sleep over at your house and guess what your not sleeping you are mostly staying 
 up the whole night playing a 99 stock match or a 99 minute match and OMG those will keep you stuck 
 on there until you fall asleep there on the couch or on your bed. Then they put online play which 
 you can have up to 3 people online to play with you while your other friend is at his or her friends 
 house playing you through Wi-Fi. Also its fully customizable the same you would do like on a off 
 line multi-player. But the play with anyone is just search for other people than change only the 
 items nothing else. So you would rather be playing with friends to unleash the full potential of 
 Brawls Full online play. 
  
  Graphics: By far the same but more better looking than Super Mario Galaxy since you can see most 
 of the tiny details in the whole game but as I said earlier in the SSE most of the back rounds 
 are drawn out to reduce lag put up on the game. But don't question it as soon as you look at it 
 you need to turn on the deflicker which ( the only game I think the only game that has this option) 
 make the game look smoother to reduce all the rigid lines for the appearance of the whole game 
 and its even better on 480p. Now if you look at Mario's overalls you see all the things that would 
 belong on overalls, but in a game. The Main Menu is just simple just what I like.
  
  Sound: It feels like you are really there just from the sound of it just hear it, and it feels 
 like no just got some pots and pans and made all the effects from punches to the projectiles. It 
 works really good on the surround sound but I mostly hear it from the front kinda rare for it to 
 hear it from the back though. Even when your on the Lylat Cruise you can just hear almost everything 
 around you from asteroids coming at you to the ships flying from place to place.
  
  Replay: This game is just hard to put down when you have friends or not because people who like 
 playing online will just keep playing online with other people to see them get knocked off the 
 stage. But when playing offline with your friends you just have a blast shouting out "OMG I just 
 owned you with the cracker launcher then with the super scope OOOOOOO". Then theres the stage creator 
 and its there for one reason for it" im bored with the stages and I want more", see with stage 
 builder you can keep making stages to your hearts content till you are satified with what you have 
 just that you need creativity. Then you go on and keep playing with more and more stages that you 
 have built and there are stages that nintendo sends you that have been made from different people 
 all around the world. Same goes with your friends sending you stages, picture, replays they have 
 been making only if they have brawl and have you on his or her wii friend lists. The stages are 
 just Amazing theres not that much moving stages. But a good amount of stages that are just standing 
 still which are good.
  
  -There are trophies, stickers, characters, stages, and stage parts, and etc. etc. there are just 
 sooo much unlockable content this game will just you hooked on it for days and days just testing 
 you to unlock almost everything. Then theres even more hidden trophies than last time which is 
 a good addition to the whole replay value. Even then they added stickers to collect and to help 
 you on the SSE also the same thing as I said earlier it helps the replay value. Then there is even 
 more characters than last time and they are just too good until you master them but some people 
 will always find a character that always suits them to brawl against there friends. Stages which 
 are even more fun and there are alot of it since the more you play the more you unlock. Thats all 
 for replay since I dont want to reveal too much who hasn't seen the game nor even played it.
  
  So Last the game is impossible to put down with friends or even yourself since you can have 
 3 CPU's battle you for practice. Also there is alot of replay value the sound is just Awesome. 
 The graphics just by far the best in the wii's library beside Super Mario Galaxy. Just a little 
 few things there and there to be bad about the game. But overall Its just a bust in the head AWESOME.
 
  
  PS. please people don't write fake reveiw's and say the game is just entirely bad because thats 
 mostly a lie and you haven't even played it yourself. But just to give your self a bad name in 
 writing reveiws and to influence a few people to not buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WaffleFries55
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2008 7:29 pm PT
Review:  First off the gameplay is very similar to the previous ones and you have a choice of playing with 
 the gamecube controller, wii mote, or nunchuck and wii mote so there is no worries about that if 
 you got too used to melee. 
  
  Gameplay-
  
  spectacular, can be frustrating on adventure mode in the big maze part, a little repetitive, but 
 still highly addictive and has plenty of variations with new chars. the final smashes that you 
 heard about are really that great and it is fun watching them. the classic mode has been varied 
 a little bit, but who needs that when there is the new online mode that has brawl and team battle.
 
  
  Graphics-
  
  best on wii, you HD freaks should die if you dont like the cartoony graphics that have always been 
 implemented in SSB. the chars are a little sharp at times, but the fire is great and everything 
 else is fine.
  
  Overall-
  
  I'd recommend it for 3 reasons. 
  
  1-it has great gameplay and can also be a great party game
  
  2-there is nothing like it on 
 any system
  
  3-because its super smash bros. DUh!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackPhoenixDP
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is really worth praising. I have read other reviews that say the game is overrated nickmat_tycoon 
 to name one for example. The say it is basically the same as Melee with a few new stages; this 
 is a big lie. There is about 35 stages, and about 5 of those are frome Melee. Not to Mention you 
 Can actually create your own stages, making possible to have thousands of stages on SD cards. They 
 say that nobody ever really plays wi-fi if this was true then how come every time you connect there 
 is always someone waiting to play. Again the same user has said that the graphics are the same 
 as in melee. If this true then how come this game won a visual design award, personally i had only 
 seen these awards in PS3 games. If this person really has the game he is either blind or "special." 
 If people dont like the game then dont just go around writing reviews in which half the things 
 aint even true. The options are so many i cant possibly mention all here, still there are 345 songs. 
 AND PLUS you can choose your difficulty level, from wanting to pass the game quickly in very easy 
 or having a real challenge in very hard. This game will bring you hours and years of fun especially 
 with your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RevolutionLink
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros for the N64 and Super Smash Bros. Melee for the Nintendo Gamecube, two of the 
 greatest multiplayer games of all time, both still extremely popular to this day. Brawl? Greatest 
 multiplayer game of all time.
  When the trailer for Brawl was first shown at E3 2006 it was pretty exciting. Seeing those new 
 characters and the much improved graphics brought a lot of hope plus the addition of third party 
 characters brought great potential. Well its been almost two years later and after two typical 
 Nintendo delays its here. 
  So how good is this gamewell if you liked Melee than you might like the addition of some new characters 
 such as Snake, Sonic, Pit, Meta Knight, King Dedede, Olimar, Ike, Wario, Diddy Kong, R. O. B, Wolf 
 and more. Or maybe you'll like the addition of online, more stages, better graphics, the greatest 
 soundtrack of all time, an eight hour adventure mode, more unlockables and even more ways to customize 
 your battle.
  The gameplay in this game for the most part remains the same. Obviously you can customize almost 
 anything in this game whether it be stock, time or coin match, speed size and controller options 
 (stick with the Gamecube controller) . One of the new feature to this game is the smash ball. This 
 item essentially has a different effect for each character giving them an extremely poweful move. 
 Whether it be Donkey Kong breaking out his drums or Fox crashing in with his landmaster. Overall 
 the smash ball adds a lot of depth and makes the game that much more fun. The other new addition 
 is the Subspace Emissary. Its a lot better than Melee's adventure mode in that it lasts eight hours 
 and it has tons of beautiful videos to further enhance the experience. It gives the game a decent 
 story and just simply adds more unlockables. Another cool edition is the stage builder. It could 
 have been a lot better but what this adds to the game is a way to create neat stages suited to 
 your playing needs, you can even send them to friends or have the chance of Nintendo choosing them 
 and placing them up on Wi-Fi. Online, Brawl has online? Sounds like a great idea and with friend 
 codes it's just as if you were playing with them in your own living room. I haven't tried it much 
 myself but I hear there are a few problems which will hopefully be worked out. Other great features 
 from this game are trophies, returning from Melee, stickers and masterpieces. Masterpieces are 
 demo versions from classic games enabled by the power of the Virtual Console. Super Mario World, 
 Super Metroid and Ocarina of Time are among the titles that you can try out.
  Enough can't be said about this soundtrack with a team of some of the greatest musicians working 
 on this project. Some of Nintendo's greatest songs are in here whether they remain the same or 
 are given a unique remix. All the great songs from the Mario franchise to the Legend of Zelda and 
 all the way to the Wii Shop Channel music are included in this game and their all great.
  The best thing about Brawl is that its so accessible, almost anyone who has ever played Smash Bros 
 has loved it and yet there is a monstrous amount of depth that you can play this game for years 
 to come as seen with Melee. Great with friends, great by yourself and just overall an amazing experience. 
 In conclusion this game is for everyone, whether you be a die hard Nintendo fan or someone just 
 getting into gaming, you owe yourself to play this amazing game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicUSMC
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Brawl is a type games that is just the same through the whole series of the games. With new charters 
 stages and a Story mode there e is plenty to do. Battle (or now called Brawl) , is were you and 
 three of your friends can play to see how has the better twitchy fingers and how can hit the A 
 and B buttens faster. And I am not going to bother to talk about the WiFi No One Plays It, so that 
 is just a waste of time. 
  
  Single player is were you fight in the story mode, and events mode. Story mode in what I thick 
 has no depth and it just looks like a Kirby Gba game. Event mode is just the same as the last game.
 
  
  The things you can do are make a stage that you can only share with your friends. Classic mode 
 were you can only play demos of games for 3min. or lest.
  
  But yes the game is fun if you have friends over. But rely it just goes down to that the game is 
 a Party game with good music.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NFS102
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo has brought all your favorite characters back into another showdown of intense fighting 
 action. Super Smash Brothers Brawl is the newest installment in Nintendo's highly regarded "Super 
 Smash" franchise. With many long days of waiting behind us now, the game is finally out and on 
 the market, and trust me; it doesn't disappoint. The gameplay is almost unchanged, but all the 
 new added features make the new Super Smash a step above its previous installments.
  
  Super Smash was first introduced way back when the Nintendo 64 was one of the main consoles on 
 the market. The Super Smash series is a 3D fighting game between Nintendo's most popular characters. 
 What I mean by that, is that all of your favorite characters from other Nintendo games (like Mario 
 and Link) all join together for one game. The first Super Smash Bros. game was a little above average, 
 but not a mega hit like Super Mario 64. Then, Nintendo released the second game in the series; 
 Super Smash Bros. Melee. This game was a huge hit among owners, becoming one of the Nintendo Gamecube's 
 best sellers. The game received universal praise by reviewers and fans alike; and now the series 
 is back. With so much hype surrounding Brawl, you'd expect a good game out of Nintendo. Fans wanted 
 another thrilling fighting game that delivered as much fun as Melee, and that's just what they 
 got. Brawl is an exceptionally good game, even receiving perfect scores from major reviewing websites. 
 The point is, if you haven't played Smash Bros. before, you need to start.
  
  The gameplay of Super Smash is very simple; actually its almost the same as the previous Smash 
 games. The objective of the game is to knock your opponent (s) off of the battlefield (or stage) . 
 To do this, you must use your wide arsenal of attacks to damage and K. O. your enemies. Every character 
 has his/her own set of moves to use against each other. Since there are tons of characters it adds 
 some diversity and strategy to the game. Even though the gameplay is very simple, which is good 
 because anyone can pick up and play, it doesn't mean that it's not fun. If you're by yourself or 
 with friends, the gameplay of Brawl is extremely intense and will keep your hands glued to the 
 controller for hours and hours of fun.
  
  The character diversity is probably one of the best things in Brawl. When I said there are lots 
 of characters, I meant it. With over 30 characters to choose from there's bound to be someone to 
 fit your needs. The main types are as followed. Heavy characters are some of the more common in 
 the game. The heavy characters usually pack a lot of punch and are very hard to knock off the stage 
 do to their weight. This is very good if you like that kind of fighter, but they do have their 
 downsides. Heavy characters are very slow, so don't expect to be able to out run someone who's 
 invincible. Another type of character would be the lightweight fighter. These characters usually 
 are very quick, but are dragged down from being easily knocked off the stage and sometimes having 
 a lack of attack power. The other type would be a balanced mix between the two classes, an regular 
 weight character who has the positives and negative of both of the other types. With all the choices, 
 your sure to find someone you like. If you can't, you're weird.
  
  Now onto my next subject, the stages. The stages of Super smash Bros. Brawl have been designed 
 to an excellent standard that has even improved since Melee. The stages look beautiful, from an 
 artistic and technical standpoint. In addition to that, stages now have more of an affect on the 
 game. In Melee, only a few stages could damage you or move around. But now almost every stage has 
 an obstacle you must avoid. This makes stages really fun to play and they add more excitement to 
 the game than you'd think. And for all you Melee lovers, the game even lets you play on some of 
 your favorites from the previous Smash game.
  
  Now most of the stuff I've talked about was in Melee. But yes, Brawl is a different game from Melee. 
 It has many new features, one of these being online play. Now even if you don't have someone to 
 play with you can always find a friend to play with via the Internet. The modes online are regular 
 match with strangers, and friend code matches. At the time of this review being written, the stranger's 
 match is currently not working. But the friend code matches work very, very good. Playing with 
 your friends online is a great feature to the game, because now you don't have to come over to 
 each others houses to see who's best. The online has very little lag and is very simple to do. 
 This addition does help Brawls appeal and is top-notch online play for the Wii. 
  
  Many other additions have also found their way onto Super Smash Brothers Brawl. The coolest of 
 which is probably the design your own stage feature. With this your able to design your own stages 
 that you can fight in with your friends offline. Have you ever though about making the smallest 
 stage ever? You can try it with this. The design your own stage feature is really cool, and is 
 one of my favorite features in the whole game. Aside from that the adventure mode for Brawl has 
 been updated, it's now called "The subspace Missionary". The new adventure mode has a co-op feature 
 added as well, which is nice for two people. Classic is still the same though, so in general all 
 the single player features of the game are still the same as they were in Melee. 
  
  In the end though, Super Smash Brothers Brawl is a game that any Wii owner should check out. From 
 Online to creating your own stages, there's bound to be something for everyone to do in this game. 
 If you don't believe the hype surrounding this game, believe it. Brawl builds upon Melee in nearly 
 every way possible and will keep the excitement coming, for a long, long time. It all comes down 
 to the fact that even if you haven't played Super Smash before, you need to get this game.
  
  
  Overall I give Super Smash Brothers Brawl a 9.0 out of 10.
  
  
  -NFS102
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  The SSB series has never faltered. With every game that has released, it only improves. And luckily, 
 this one follows that trend. Indeed it is only the third in the series, but damn, it has gone a 
 long way since the original.
  
  THE GRAPHICS on this game are acutally pretty good. They look better than Melee for the GC and 
 is among one of the best looking games on the Wii. The lighting effects are pretty well done, and 
 this is the best some of the Nintendo characters have ever looked. Take for example DK. He has 
 never looked better and you can actually see his hairs one by one. Pretty nice indeed. 
  
  THE SOUND is awesome. From old school ochestrated music to remixes of old classics. It all sounds 
 good and every character's voices are intact here. 
  
  THE GAMEPLAY is so good. Its not even a joke here, its that damn fun. Not only do you get what 
 you have come to love with dueling it out with 4 Nintendo characters on the same screen, but you 
 also get a REAL single player mode. Yep, you actually get an addicting single player adventure 
 mode that introduces all the characters and lets you play a game that almost feels like an old 
 school side scroller. You'll be running through the mission with a team of Mario and Pitt, or Link 
 and Yoshi all trying to put an end to the villians (i. e. Bowser, Wario, King Dedede etc.) that 
 are turning all the characters into statues. It actually is a deep, engaging single player mode 
 that doesn't get old. One of my favorites is the stage that is a rehash to the old DK Country games. 
 It even supported the music from those games. Now aside from the single player mode, you'll get 
 your standard brawling which has been enhanced. You'll get loads of more characters (thats right, 
 Melee's character selection ain't got nothing on this) such as Solid Snake, Sonic, Wario, Toon 
 Link and a whole lot more. You'll also get the addition of the long awaited online play. Sure, 
 its not as good as what you want (no voice chat, a hassle to get online with friends etc.) but 
 its still good to see Nintendo listening to their consumers. Playing with real people is a lot 
 more fun and challenging than standard CPU. 
  
  THE LIFESPAN of this game is limitless. As with all SSB there is never an end to these games. There 
 is so much game here to be had its definately overwhelming. 
  
  SSBB is definately one of the best games on the Wii. And the only competition standing in its way 
 is its fellow Nintendo brethen Super Mario Galaxy. If you own a Wii, and do not own this game, 
 then you are a fool. If you don't own this and you also don't own Super Mario Galaxy; well then 
 you should just kill yourself. Super Smash Bros. Brawl is one helluva game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steven_Beynon
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Pros
  
  + Fantastic presentation 
  + Local multiplayer that is a welcome addition to any Wii owners household
  + 30-plus character 
 roster
  + 3rd party characters enter the fight
  + Good looking cut scenes
  + This game is a nostalgia weapon twenty years in the making
  + Get to see Diddy Kong shoot his 
 peanut gun
  + Kick ass soundtrack 
  + Attempts online
  
  Cons
  
  -and has a bland online, but only because Brawl is a local game
  -People who fail to reach the 
 Nintendo fan demographic, and who are less-experienced with Nintendo history will find little enjoyment 
 in the adventure mode.
  -Some of the levels in the Subspace Emissary are trivial, and short 
  
  
  Super Smash Bros. 
 Brawl is a game that's virtually impossible to dislike for anyone who's been around the block in 
 the gaming world, or anyone who's just a sucker for nostalgia. While Brawl is an obligatory player's 
 choice on the Nintendo side, gamers from all demographics will indubitably find charm in this Brawler.
 
  
  Veterans of the Smash Bros. series will find no surprises on the game play side of Brawl. Like 
 its predecessors, Brawl sticks to chaotic four player battle contentions, and simplistic two button 
 fighting mechanics. Combining these two attributes creates a very accessible party game anyone 
 can enjoy. While it may seem to be a minor issue, and a common dispute people have with the Smash 
 Bros. series, it must be restated that after spending just a few hours with Brawl, you'll find 
 tiers of characters. Some characters like Meta Knight are obviously over powered, and since this 
 isn't a serious fighting game that's an aimless statement. However, it's common knowledge that 
 Smash Bros. is a common figure in competitive gaming.
  
  Anyone who picks up a Gamecube controller (controller of choice) for the first time, will find 
 no difficulty in learning the basic gameplay formula of the two button combat, and trying your 
 best not to fall of the edge. More time will be spent training yourself to cope with the chaotic 
 action, and depict where your character is on screen, while managing to fight off three other guys, 
 also successfully dodging at the same time. 
  
  Long term fans of the series will be in awe over this iteration's character roster. Your typical 
 guys from the Nintendoverse are here, Mario, Pikachu, Link, Samus, Fox, and so on. But characters 
 like Diddy Kong, and Wario finally make it to the fight. While Nintendo faboyism will smile at 
 any roster with these classical gaming icons, 3rd party characters like Sonic and Snake enter the 
 fray, adding to the astonishing thirty-plus roster. 
  
  Playable characters almost seem secondary considering all the arenas you'll be unlocking throughout 
 playing. Some arenas are straightforward typical Smash Bros. environments, but some others are 
 totally rad. Stages, such as the Metal Gear Solid arena will take you to Shadow Moses Island, the 
 beginning area of the Playstation classic, or Twin Snakes since we're talking Nintendo here. The 
 PictoChat level is crazy, because while you're fighting, the level is constantly being redrawn. 
 The WarioWare stage is the most chaotic of the bunch, as it occasional breaks into WarioWare-esque 
 mini games, and failing to do so results in some minor harm to your health, adding to the overall 
 chaos, and fun. 
  
  With all these playable characters, and stages, comes with a soundtrack that would make Tommy Tallarico 
 cheer as a triumph. Fans are served with audio on a platter, with musical scores both new, and 
 old, covering all the characters in the game. 
  
  To the excitement of the entire world, Smash Bros. will finally be playable online to play with 
 strangers, and friends who share a long-ass code. To much surprise the online works fine, but feels 
 empty. The lack of a voice chat option really hinders the experience, and really takes away from 
 the Smash experience, which is a collection of dudes in a room yelling, swearing, and laughing. 
 Even if Brawl had a more constructed online, and voice chat, I don't believe it could duplicate 
 the experience of the local multiplayer. Gather your friends, order some pizza, crank out the unhealthy 
 energy drinks, and Brawl until the sun rises. That's where Super Smash Bros. Brawl shines the brightest. 
 
  
  In addition to regular fighting, and multiplayer madness Brawl also has an adventure mode that 
 is the personification of nostalgia, the Subspace Emissary. In reality, the Emissary is just a 
 side scroller that has a co-op option. Those who aren't familiar with the Nintendo family, or simply 
 don't hold sentimentality towards the 1st party franchisees will find little enjoyment here, but 
 those who love the characters will find plenty of novelty in the Emissary. Some levels feel tacky, 
 and trivial, but seeing Fox and Diddy Kong team up against a giant Pokemon is awesome, not to mention 
 uncovering R. O. B. the robot to be a villain. After twenty years, who knew!? It seems the game play 
 in this mode was an afterthought, and the true purpose was to provide players with awesome cut 
 scenes with unvoiced (thank God) Nintendo icons interact with each other, and fight against a common 
 enemy. 
  
  Recommending Brawl comes down to three simple questions. One of course would be, do you like videogames? 
 No, Brawl isn't to that degree, but if you're a fan of Nintendo novelty, and can appreciate Nintendo's 
 rich history, a Brawl purchase is a no-brainer. If you have the ability to gather together a good 
 set of buddies, and you never sold those Gamcube controllers, Brawl is a game that should be in 
 every Wii owner's library. 
  
  Steven_Beynon 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JattDon
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  This is the most solid super smash bros i've ever seen. It has everything! Online, huge roster, 
 and you can even create you'r own custum stages! What is really unique about that game is that 
 they added a storymode. Unlike the other super smash bros games this game has the space emissary. 
 Where everyone has their own story, (example:, DK, Diddy (have to protect their bannanas) . In the 
 space emmisary everyone meets up. Gamecubes meele, had adventure mode witch is simple and short. 
 Everything is great! It's just that the online... The online is sometimes really laggy or a little 
 bit of lag it depends on the persons connection. But sometimes it doesent even lag. I was suprised 
 when I first saw it, it looked fine but there is major butten lag even if there is no lagg in game. 
 I was really dissapointed in this games online. You can't message your friends, and tell them to 
 join your game. You have to put it on your comment. Another dissapointing thing is that you cant 
 have stocks. You cant have lives while playing world wide. You can only have a 2 minute KO fest. 
 Also it takes a really long time geting into online games. But if you have a lot of friends playing 
 on brawl it can be fun. You can even bring a friend over to your house and you can play online 
 at the same time!!! It is sort of like split screen. But you cant do that world wide. If you play 
 with your friends you can do any type of brawl you want, you can have stocks (lives) , time limit, 
 ect... Everything that you can do when you are playing offline. You cant use your own custum built 
 stages and play them online. You can only use the normal stages or the meele stages. I was really 
 dissapointed in the online. But the game is really great I just play offline it's still great. 
 Classic mode is the same as all years. Why wouldent it be? Its classic. This game is the best super 
 smash bros we've seen yet but they could have done a bit better.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickmat_tycoon
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  I believe Super Smash Bros. Brawl is an okay game, if you have never played the previous games. 
 They had years to make a better sequel to melee, with countless delays, and it has little improvements. 
 If you are a big fan of melee, then this game is worth a pickup, but it is not as good as its hyped 
 up to be. The graphics are basically the same as melee and the controls barely take advantage of 
 the wii-mote's capabilities. 
  Although it has several drawbacks, there are some good points in this game. It is definitely fun 
 an addictive, in the same way melee was, except is has a vast array of new characters and stages 
 to choose from. It also has a tracklist of music as well as an online function. There is also a 
 stage creator where you are able to create your own stage to brawl.
  Overall, this game is good, but not as good as people say it is supposed to be. If you are a fan 
 of super smash bros, pick it up, but if you do not have a wii, do not get a wii just for this game. 
 I hope this review was helpful in your decision of buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jiggamane
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  I was introduced to this game by my friend in 2005. I never played the old ones, but when i rented 
 the Super smash brothers melee i started to get the game play and never let go. I spent hours playing 
 the gamecube one. Even on this one when i first got it i got 14 hrs of playtime the first day!! 
 This is the most addicting fighting game because it has a different gameplay. there are tons of 
 items that u can use and also assist trophies that has different characters that help u get your 
 opponnents' health percentage increase. This is much better than mortal kombat ( Mortal kombat 
 was my favorite fighting game) . there is also online gameplay which makes this game last forever. 
 you should get this game, its the best seller in the whole games history! . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiwillstand
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  It was a near two-year wait, but in the end, Super Smash Bros. Brawl was well worth it. It's been 
 about sev en years since the masterpiece Super Smash Bros. Melee was released, and with such a 
 great reputation as one of the greatest video games of all time, a lot was expected for this game. 
 Luckily, Masahiro Sakurai delivered more than anyone could ever imagine. Packed with hours upon 
 hours of multiplayer gameplay, solo modes, and an excellent adventure mode, Super Smash Bros. Brawl 
 is possibly the greatest game in its series, and of all time.
  
  Let's start with basic multiplayer. You have the choices of making your brawls anyway you'd like. 
 Whether it's a 2-minute match, 3-stock battle, or a fun coin match, you can have it anyway you 
 want. Alongside this is more than 40 stages for you to choose from to battle on (including classic 
 Melee stages, and your own custom-made stages) . Finally, with a roster of 35 characters, ranging 
 from Mario, to Link, to Fox McCloud, and even the Pokemon Trainer, you'll have more than you need 
 to choose from. 
  
  To expand on the multiplayer, you get something new to the Smash series, Online Play. Though at 
 the present time there is a lot of lag online, the rare occasion that you get a lag-free match 
 is very enjoyable. The only real problem with the random online matches is not being able to communicate 
 with your fellow brawlers. Still, it pays off when you exchange friends codes with others, and 
 battle them online. This way, you can see their name, and even make fun custom taunts at them. 
 Also, if you would prefer to not fight against friends, then put your differences aside, and battle 
 side by side in a multi-man brawl, or in a home-run contest. Nonetheless, Online play in Brawl 
 really pays of as a great feature.
  
  Going back to the roots of Super Smash Bros. For the N64, the Classic Mode has more common formula 
 in Brawl. Each time you play, the matches are roughly the same as before, but some like Giant fights 
 will always be different, so there's always something new. Also, brought back from Melee is All-Star 
 Mode. Battle through all of your characters without losing a life to become the greatest Brawler 
 of all.
  
  Probably the best new game mode to Brawl is the all-new adventure mode: The Subspace Emissary. 
 Packed with great replay value, a compelling storyline, and beautiful cutscenes, this is probably 
 the greatest game mode added to the Smash Universe. Stretching out to approximately 6-10 hours 
 of gameplay, this mode will cease to amaze you. Watching all of your favorite Nintendo characters 
 join forces against a common enemy has never been better, or done before. If you don't want to 
 take it alone, than just bring in a friend or family member and enjoy immersive co-op gameplay. 
 In the end, you'll find something that makes your experience of The Subspace Emissary better than 
 ever.
  
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is packed with so many modes and options that I can't even list all of 
 them. From demos of classic Nintendo games, to music tests of one of the most amazing soundtracks, 
 Brawl will give you much more to enjoy than just have a regular smash match. Super Smash Bros. 
 Brawl is one of the greatest Wii games to date, and no one should miss out on it. Pick up your 
 copy today, and join in on the brawl to end them all!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  I HATE fighting games. I always have, and always will. But, for some reason, I've always loved 
 Super Smash Bros. It's probably the simplicity of the game. No combos to memorize, no health bars. 
 Just chaotic fun with memorable characters.
  
  Brawl doesn't change the formula much. Health is a percentage that indicates how much damage has 
 been taken, not how much you have until you're knocked out. Each character has their own basic 
 move set that doesn't require memorizing combos, along with four special moves that are as simple 
 are pressing a direction and B. It's EASY to pick up and play, and yet there's a ton of room to 
 build your skill.
  
  There are a ton of characters, and we finally get to play as some characters that we've always 
 wanted to try. Wario and Diddy Kong are here, Sonic and Solid Snake (yay for non-Nintendo properties!) , 
 King Dedede and Meta Knight of Kirby fame, and quite a few more, round out some of the new showings. 
 Unfortunately, there still isn't enough characters in the game! We want MORE. Give us Mega Man. 
 Give us some other non-Nintendo characters. We want to duke it out with a huge plethora of our 
 favorite characters, regardless of what system they call home. 
  
  But enough of my rant. The game is loaded to the brim with unlockables and collectibles, a decent 
 variety of game modes, and a surprisingly decent adventure mode. It's got online, and it's relatively 
 lag free (at least by Nintendo standards) . Unfortunately, online is relegated to 2-minute matches. 
 It's also got a level builder, screenshot function, and savable replays (Halo 3?) .
  
  This game is a must own for all Wii owners. Even if you don't like fighting games, it's still an 
 easy enough game to pick up and play. Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesytaco69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  Well, well, well... The next installment of the famous Smash Bros. Series. FINALLY!! The hype for 
 this game was well worth it. The addition of characters but the loss of my favorite from Melee... 
 Roy... RIP Roy... 
  
  Gameplay: The feel of the game is pretty similar to Melee but it's definitely different! It's more 
 challenging now with the addition of the INTENSE mode. The Subspace Emissary was kind of annoying 
 for me and I wish they hadn't done some things in it. 
  
  Graphics: They are great but who cares? As long as the game is fun right?
  
  Fun? You bet! 
 I played this game for 6 and half hours straight when it got it home! The online has some kinks 
 but that's because of the server problems at the moment. That will all be better soon... hopefully. 
 I did get a chance to play online with relatively no lag. It's fun too! 
  
  Overall: This game is Superb! But it's not perfect. The little things that might annoy you will 
 not make you want to stop playing but it did affect MY OPINION about this game. 
  
  If you have a Wii and some cash to buy a game... Get this one. You WILL NOT be disappointed! 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: D00MsDave
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  It doesn't happen very often that a game comes out and manages to take every type of gamer out 
 there and satisfy all their needs in place. In a very absurd and absurdly fun manner, Brawl manages 
 to do just that. The general ease of this game allows both casual and hardcore gamer alike to pick 
 up a controller and join in on the fray with a multitude of new controller options, characters, 
 maps, story, online mode and a host of other things to back it up. 
  
  The controls remain as flexible as its N64 and Game Cube prequels while at the same time tossing 
 it up a bit by allowing you to choose between any controller type available to the Wii. As before 
 you have you have your regular attacks, smashes and specials that emphasizes on the character that 
 the player uses, all of which are easy to perform and hard to master. While most controller options 
 are easy to pick up on, the only controller type that had a bit of a learning curve was the stand-alone 
 Wiimote in which you are restricted to fewer buttons than other controller types.
  
  The game is well balanced for having a 35 character roster. A return of old classics as well as 
 some fresh faces keep the game interesting to its fullest extent. It's always pleasing to see characters 
 from separate universes duking it out in one game, Especially when you get to see Solid Snake and 
 Sonic the Hedgehog fight in the land of Hyrule. While the games balance is relevant there are a 
 few exceptions where one person may sit there doing continuous smashes on a horrendously overpowered 
 character, but it doesn't do much to ruin the experience for anyone else and keeps the game relatively 
 balanced for most skill levels. Brawl maintains more balance than most available fighters and stays 
 away from the dreaded "Dial-a-combo" that plagues most.
  
  Many familiar arenas have been tossed into the game. Plenty have returned from Melee as well as 
 some newer areas IE Green Hill Zone from Sonic the Hedgehog or Shadow Moses Island from Metal Gear 
 Solid. Even with all of the new and very interesting arenas added players are welcome to create 
 their own battlefield and share it with friends. While you aren't able to take these maps online, 
 there are some certain websites out there that allow you to post you creation in all of its glory 
 and share it to the world.
  
  The one things that Super Smash Bros. games had lacked in the past was a truly solid story. While 
 the Classic Mode (11 match, beat'em up) remains a new mode called "The Sub-Space Emissary" comes 
 in to tell you as to how all these characters have come together to fight it out on one platform. 
 Sub-Space Emissary has many hidden secrets that allow you to come back even after you have run 
 through it once or twice. Whether it be to unlock characters you may have missed or even minor 
 trophies or stickers that help enhance the game play further.
  
  The newest and perhaps the most welcome addition to brawl is the inclusion of an online mode. While 
 there have been some issues with connecting to a fight, this doesn't stop the fact that when you 
 are in a fight the game remains relatively lag free and the anonymity allows for less worry about 
 scoreboards or the usual online hot-head. Brawl creates an online environment where all will feel 
 welcome.
  
  If all these features, especially the inclusion of online play didn't catch your interest then 
 stop what you are doing.
  Pick up a controller.
  And hit yourself with it.
  
  Brawl is one of the best fighting games out there, it carries on that certain Nintendo charm and 
 makes sure you get the absolute best of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: machod_19
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  The graphics for this game are great i think they are the best on the Wii so far, and the character 
 models are all re-done so they look fresh. While playing the Subspace Emissionary the cutscene 
 graphics dont get any better on the Wii, and the characters just look awesome! The gameplay this 
 year is almost the same as last years, which is a good thing. The one thing i dont like about the 
 gameplay is playing with the Wii mote and nunchuck because it gets confusing after a while when 
 you have to press certain buttons to do a move. But luckily there are 4 ways of playing, my favorite 
 is the Gamecube controller because its easy to play and is more of a button masher. One new edition 
 to this years game is the online play which i think should have been on last years game. The online 
 play lets you play against other people that can give you a challenge, but at the same time sometimes 
 you will get problems with the online play. Overall this game is the best in the series, due to 
 many things and small improvements from the previous games. Though this game isnt a perfect 10 
 because sometime in the Subspace Emissary the camera can get frustrating, and some characters arent 
 really need (Olimar) and you could have had better characters (Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles) . Another 
 great feature is the create a level feature which lets you create the levels you wished they would 
 have had. OVERALL THIS GAME ROCKS AND I LOVE THE REPLAY VALUE OF THIS GAME DUE TO THE ONLINE AND 
 I HOPE TO PLAY THIS GAME TILL I  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerminator7474
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  if you're looking for as better game than that you will be dead by the time it happens brawl has 
 a great adventur mode called subspace emmissery
  its lenghty and has at least a story and a preatty good story the best thing is that if you do 
 something and someone does something else it will change the story so you can complete it once 
 and complete it another times but having a diffrent story you can't get boared playing this game 
 i never stoped playing and i'm not board yet and there's a lot of new caracthers like wario
  sonic and they have still almost all the classic characters you have event matchs witch they give 
 you a goal you cannot fail and you must do it the fastest possible there not that easy you can 
 also build stages in tage builder you can share them online or save them on a SD card so you can 
 instal it on sombody elses wii you can do the same with screenshots and replays you have the home 
 run contest wich is difrient than melee theres a force field so you can hit the sand bag allot 
 then at one sec it gos of so you can hit it note: if you hit the force field to much times it will 
 break 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marineratfisrt
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  Smash Brothers Melee was fun, but after a while it started to get boring playing alone. But BRAWL 
 is different. Of course, the multiplayer is awesome, but single player modes will get you playing 
 for a long time. 
  
  The adventure mode finally has a good length story that will make you be playing for hours. As 
 you clear the adventure mode, you will be able to use more characters, all throughout the game.
 
  
  The best part of the game is the character choice. The number of characters are not too many, but 
 not too less either. There are many characters that you are familiar from previous smash brothers, 
 but you will find that some unexpected fighters come out too. There are even characters like Snake 
 and Sonic that are guest fighters.
  
  This game has awesome graphics. Have you ever seen Mario wearing jeans that nice. After looking 
 at Mario from Brawl, Mario from other games look bad.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pink_Troglodyte
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 12:29 am PT
Review:  First, what is good in this one.
  
  It's still Smash Bros.
  
  The adventure mode is much more fun than the previous one in melee. You'll get through it in about 
 7-8 hours. I recommend playing it with a friend as it supports 2 player. The story is obviously 
 only there to tie one stage to the next (but who would expect a very coherent story considering 
 the cast?)
  
  There are many new characters in this one. They did a very good job of making sure the "clones" 
 from the last game fight pretty differently this time. There aren't many characters who totally 
 suck, and really any that stand out either. All the characters are pretty balanced because of some 
 key changes that were made to the game.
  
  There's plenty of extra stuff to unlock. It will take a very long time to do everything. Like all 
 Smash Bros games, this one has very high replay value.
  There is a heck of a lot of music to unlock, which can be put on custom stages.
  
  Here's what 
 might not be so good.
  
  The online mode could have been much better. There is absolutely no rating system or accomplishment 
 system of any type. You must know someone's online id number in order to customize your game very 
 much (there is no way to add someone as a friend in a random match as their id, name, etc., are 
 concealed) . The random matches must be a time limit game, no stock matches. If you do not know 
 about a forum to trade id's then the only ones you will probably get are you're friends, who you 
 could already play with in person.
  
  Many of the new final smashes seem too over-powered. Some like fox's, falco's, of wolf's, especially 
 on a small stage such as final destination, are a 100% guarantee that every other player is going 
 to die. Perhaps multiple times if they don't wait to respawn. They can be turned off as the smash 
 ball is an item, but no such luck online against random players. There are a couple others items 
 that feel overpowered as well.
  
  Stage builder is an awesome idea but it needs improvement. Custom levels can't be used online. 
 Also there is a very limited amount of objects to design with.
  
  Game play is where this game is the most different from the previous games. It is nearly impossible 
 to edge guard in Brawl. This is wonderful news for some, but takes a significant element out of 
 the game for others. If you turn items off, expect to damage other players about 150% and upwards 
 of 200% before they're finally blasted off the screen. The game play seems to have been designed 
 to even the playing field a little for everybody. None of the characters are extremely fast and 
 there is a lot less room for learning tricky technical skill.
  
  If you're not the greatest smash bros player ever you can will still put up a very good fight. 
 In fact, you might like this game because you might even defeat people who could potentially four 
 stock you in melee. This is probably because it's very hard to combo in this version. Whereas n64 
 smash bros was combo heaven and those who practice a lot in melee could dish out some severe beatings, 
 you'll find in brawl you'll trade hits quite frequently. Because the characters in general are 
 a lot heavier than melee, and attacks don't always blow the opponent far enough away, sometimes 
 your foe may retaliate before your character has finished his attack animation (I do not say this 
 referring to slow moves either) The reaction time is different in this one. You might anticipate 
 what your opponent is about to do but there might just not be anything to do about it.
  
  This is still one of the better games on the wii right now. If you want to play this, I suggest 
 you use a gamecube controller. Also it will be much more fun if know several friends who you can 
 play with. If you really just want some hectic action and aren't worried about technically game 
 play nuances then this is definitely a great buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heromoua
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  OK, we... or should I say "I" was not that impressed with Super Smash Brothers Brawl one bit, but 
 that's not a bad thing. This will be the most played game when people are over, and will indeed 
 be in my Wii longer than any other game. But I gotta point out the flaws... which practically takes 
 up most of the game review. First off, if you were thinking that you are playing a NEW game, well 
 you are not. Think of Melee, but with new characters, online play, new levels, new gameplay schemes, 
 and other features such as stage builder. It sure sounds like a ton of new features, but it all 
 doesn't add much to the formula. There's a single player portion of the game called the Subspace 
 Emissary, but once again, it doesn't add much, though it can get you to keep on playing just to 
 find out more about the story and to see the gorgeous CG cuts cenes. Online mode is a nice feature, 
 but it's very lacking. There'll be connection failures, and I would run into pretty bad lags. And 
 if you take it from reviewers such as Gamespot, Gametrailers, IGN, etc, they'll say it is smooth 
 and lag free. Having the idea that they are TOP NOTCH REVIEWERS, they'll have all the goods such 
 as best of the best online connections and wireless hot spots. In my case, I'm running on Road 
 Runner High Speed Online, and I would still run into minor and pretty bad lags. But do remember 
 that this portion of the game comes from many different perspectives. Stage builder adds little 
 or nothing as well, due to its lacking in objects to use, and it's really just a cheap feature 
 to extend the game just a little further. When I heard of Kotaku giving this game a perfect score, 
 I was a little worried. They are with out a doubt some of the most strict, and best reviewers in 
 games, but it had come to the point where I'd have to disagree. Heck, I disagree with all the reviews 
 given to this game. It's not great, but good, and it really hasn't stepped up since the last game. 
 Hardcore Nintendo fans can and will deny these thoughts and facts, and that's perfectly fine, but 
 in my opinion, SSMBB didn't deliver the game I was expecting, and it was indeed way too OVERRATED 
 for what it was. I give it a 7.5, and to many people, it's an outrageous score to a game like this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyx4
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl is a awesome game. i like play against my friends and cousins to see who 
 is the best. i also like how adventure mode is great, but it is pretty long if your doing it on 
 hard mode. The cut scene looks great for Wii graphics. I also how it has four types of controls 
 so everybody can play even though if your friends dose not have a wii controller. Right now i am 
 trying to get use of the stage builder and i like how you can put any song from ssbb into your 
 stage. there are so many characters that made in ssbb like Snake, Sonic, Lucario, and wolf. The three 
 characters i like playing is Fox, Marth, and Sonic. They also fit my playing style, playing quick 
 and giving damage than just blasting you across the screen. If you have a Nintendo Wii i advise 
 you to buy this game you never stop playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isthisnametakn
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2008 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Well, if you've read any of my other reviews you'd know that Halo is my favorite gaming franchise 
 of all times. Whether I mean to or not, I kind of always end up comparing every game I play to 
 it, so I guess you could say that I'm sort of bias. Thus one could deduce that if I give a game, 
 that has not been made by Bungie in the last eight years, a great review... one can know I must 
 really f-ing like it. 
  
  Super Smash Brothers has always been one of my favortie games and easily my favorite fighting game. 
 I've loved it ever since the N64 and have boughten every Nintendo console that has come out afterwards 
 purely for this game. Unfortunately, Nintendo kept me waiting a while for this latest installment 
 (7 YEARS !) , and, like any other spitefull pr! ck, I hopped the fence to find a pasture that actually 
 had some grass in it. 
  
  Coming back, I was afraid that I'd find myself no longer liking SSB and was almost hesitant to 
 drop fifty bucks of my own money for it. Fortunately this game still hast it and I still like "it". 
 While it doesn't have that ability to keep me from playing any other games it's superbly done and 
 trumps all it's predecessors.
  
  
  Good
  
  ---Superb Gameplay: With fighters, the meat of them is always in the gameplay and SSBB is no exception. 
 It's always been known for it's fast-paced and frantic style of fighting that few other games have. 
 With a larger list of items that pack an even larger punch, SSBB is virtually in a class of games 
 all its own. 
  At first I was afraid they were going to try to implement a bunch of awkward motion sensitive controls 
 with the Wii remote but they didn't, and thank God for that. Once contemplated for a moment, the 
 controls are actually quite simple. Two buttons (A/B) do two types of attacks (Generic/Character 
 specialties) and each attack has four variants that are controled by whichever direction you push 
 the analogue stick. C is jump and Z is shield. This makes the button combos easy to learn and most 
 people can pick the game up and be brawling fairly fleuntly in an hour or two. That's not to say 
 that there isn't skill. If you're a serious gamer, you'll find that becoming a master at SSBB is 
 actually quite hard. This makes the game suitable for most skill levels.
  
  ---Wide List of Characters: This game has nearly forty characters in it. Most are from the Nintendo 
 world with the exception mainly being Snake from Metal Gear Solid. While most are highly recognizable 
 (Mario, DK, Pikachu, etc.) a few aren't. It's easy to tell that Nintendo wanted to cover everything 
 they could. They even put some wierd ones such as Ice Climbers, Ness, and (a personal favorite) 
 Captain Olimar from the Pikmin games (which I also endorse) . Each character is also very unique 
 and has it's own strengths and weaknesses. Olimar for example can keep even the fastest enemy busy 
 with the (up to) six Pikmin that he commands. He also has a variety of different smash attacks, 
 depending on what type of Pikmin he throws. However, if you kill his Pikmin and don't give him 
 the chance to pull more from the ground (he can pull them from anywhere) he can't smash, he can't 
 grab, and he has no tertiary recovery jump. Things like this help keep the game fresh, as no two 
 characters are alike and you'll want to try all of them.
  
  ---Oniline Play: The dang thing actually has Wi-Fi ! If you're finished whipping everybody in your 
 neighborhood you can go onto the internet and play three other people in the standard brawl or 
 you can team up for matches of 2v2. You can also keep a friends list of people you enjoyed playing 
 with. This solved one of the main reasons SSBM got boring. With few people to play with, I eventually 
 got tired of fight CPUs. With Wi-Fi, SSBB is sure to keep me occupied much longer.
  
  
  
  Bad
  
  ---Controls: While the controls for the most par deserve nothing bu praise, I'm 
 going to nit pick this one little bit. Sometimes they seem unresponsive or (mostly referring to 
 the joy stick) they don't do what they tell you to. Often times I'll tell Olimar to fall down the 
 the bottom platform, he'll crouch, then I'll have to tell him to uncrouch and crouch again before 
 he falls down. Then other times he'll fall down on the first try or when I'm trying to call all 
 my Pikmin back. Other times I say UP B and it'll do the RIGHT B move. Stuff like this really irks 
 me and while it happens in all games, it seems to happen in the SSB games a lot more. Not to mention 
 it's not fun when it does in a game as frantic and adrenaline pumping as SSB.
  
  ---Power Items: There seems to be much more of an emphasis on power items and the occur so frequently 
 that it doesn't even make sense. Especially the three piece one and the final smash power up. Often 
 times it turns into a race to whoever can get to them, and often times it's just luck as to whoever 
 is closer; you might as well throw skill out the window. As great as this game is, it really gets 
 drug down by this. Thank God the game gives you the option to remove them.
  
  
  All in all, the game is great. If you have a Wii and don't buy it then you've just wasted $250. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chinoasian
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  It's a great game to begin with on the N64 and still a great game today but even more modernize 
 with a few tweaks just to get it right from the predecessors. Back then it was used to be a total 
 joke-off game for the Nintendo 64, but unexpectedly it became successful. The game has overpowered 
 all stereotypes and has become such a great comical fighting game that does not even look like 
 it came from a comic book anymore. They have spend a lot of time making this games and so far they 
 have done well with improvements. In comparison to all other games this one totally stands out 
 and it's only exclusive for the wii. I have been whining about this game to come out for the wii 
 for a long time and now I'm so dam grateful that it's finally out. The big "N" has done it again 
 with Super Smash Brothers! Totally Fuc ken Fun!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goron_Link
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Introduction- Many people thought "How could they make SSB better than the previous melee"? Well 
 with so many new game options and features you will never tire of SSBB, unless you don't like the 
 game? But unless you have have no sense of good gaming and don't like it at least acknowledge it 
 as an amazing game despite you don't like it. 
  
  Graphics- 9.5 They graphics have been improved to be smooth and more realistic then SSBM but still 
 have the classic cartoon feel which suits the game perfectly.
  
  Game play -10 The classic SSB fighting style and has kept most if not all the same game play. The 
 gameplay though is a little slower than Melee but has eliminated the sliding of your character. 
 Also while using the GC controller the C stick has been made so it can not be as quickly as before 
 but items can be used with C stick instead of holding A + Side.
  
  Sound - 10 I was blown away by the opening video and my mouth was open the whole time. The entire 
 game has hundreds of music that you can listen to whenever you want. Either it being classic Nintendo 
 tracks for Legend of Zelda, Metroid or Mario to brand new songs made for the new SSBB game. 
  Also the sound affects sound terrific and mostly characters or not too annoying with their voices.
 
  
  Conclusion- Now with the new game features SSBB will never become a bore. With the new Co-op modes 
 you will never have to play SSBB alone again. But that does not mean playing alone is not fun but 
 means a more challenge for yourself. Yes with the 3rd installment of the SSB series, the series 
 has never been better and in the future hopefully they will continue to achieve greater perfection. 
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSungazer
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  This is an awesome game. I've played all smash bros game and each one was probably better than 
 the last, and this one is no exception. There is sooo much content included in this game, it's 
 gonna rock your socks off. Everything from little mini games, to adventure mode, to a literally 
 endless amount of multiplayer brawl matches that you can and will want to play for years to come.
 
  
  Gameplay: Some of the best I've seen in a fighting game. Every character has their unique style 
 of fighting, unique moves, unique everything. The game runs at a really nice framerate and everything 
 is very smooth so it feels great. 
  
  Graphics: Probably some of the best on the Wii. The hardware can't push very realistic graphics, 
 but what was done in Super Mario Galaxy and Smash Bros is still quite amazing, nonetheless. It 
 looks beautiful, the colors are striking, the characters are detailed, and the level design is 
 magnificent. Some very trippy visuals in this game, believe me. Sometimes, I wanna stop playing 
 just to enjoy the craziness that's happening in the background. 
  
  Storyline: Nothing special, really, but a pretty cool co-op mode. Just your basic evil invaders, 
 where you have to take them out by playing different characters that are introduced along the way. 
 Also, you can play the other single player modes like classic mode, or All-Star mode, which are 
 pretty cool too. 
  
  Overall Value: Totally worth it. It is an extremely addicting and fun game to play by yourself, 
 with your friends, or online against a random opponent. There's tons of strategy involved to make 
 it competitive, and loads of wacky items to fight with to make it insanely fun. If you've got the 
 cash, go get it because it's probably the number one reason to have/buy a Wii right now, in my 
 opinion. 
  
  There's my two cents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bain567
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl has been in the works for some time now, but is it worth the wait? Of course. 
 The game is very well done, with plenty to do, and plenty of characters to do it with. The story 
 mode, Subspace Emissary is well made but it can get quite repetitive. The story of the game, is 
 easy to get into, and well written even with no spoken lines. The game play itself is Melee with 
 more added to it. Plus the computer controlled characters are smarter and more fun to play against. 
 Well, except Jigglypuff. The soundtrack of the game is great. Not only does it contain nostalgic 
 tunes but well done new tracks as well. The game's cast of characters is large but just about everyone 
 of them have their own unique assortment of moves. If you want a great game to keep you busy for 
 a long time to come then do yourself a favor and get Brawl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamms1384
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2008 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong. Brawl is a very well designed game, and is an enjoyable solo and even better 
 multiplayer game. But, come on! This game is not a classic. I have heard people say that this is 
 literally the best game nintendo has ever produced It can't even compare to games such as Mario 
 64 or Zelda - Ocarina. Am I happy I got the game? Of course! It is indeed very fun. But this is 
 a game certain players CAN do without. 
  
  I have read so many nintendo freaks go NUTS over the adventure mode. And good lord, I just completed 
 the adventure mode today and it was a BORE!!! All it is was the same side-scrolling adventure with 
 the occasional boss fight. The "storyline" was very vague and boring, and did not capture my interest 
 whatsoever. The movies in between bosses and stages are nothing special. I just beat the adventure 
 mode today and felt really unaccomplished after it was all said and done. I think it could have 
 been way better, and thought it was going to be with all the hype, but I was disappointed. It sucked.
 
  
  I think my favorite part of the game is simply the roster. There is a very good mix of different 
 type of characters so that one character doesn't feel too much like another. The Final Smashes 
 are nice, but some are incredibly over-powered whereas some are just kind of, meh. 
  
  I had to ask myself, "Is this really THAT much better than Melee?" 
  The answer is no, not really. 
 The gameplay is absolutely identical and in no way different from Melee. Let me say this, if this 
 was the first game in the series, it could probably be labeled as a classic. But Brawl does not 
 give you the feeling like you are playing a brand new game. Really, it feels like an expansion 
 to Melee or the original. 
  
  In conclusion, if you don't enjoy playing this game, then you don't appreciate fun. Multi-player 
 is fantastic (with the exception of WIFI) and can go on for a long time. But do not put this game 
 and classic in the same sentence! It is not even close to being a classic and is incredibly over-hyped.
 
  
  Here is a list of classics. Super Mario Bros 1 & 3, Tetris, Mario 64, Zelda-Link to the Past, Zelda-Ocarina 
 of time, Metal Gear Solid, and FF7 to name a few. Those games are REVOLUTIONARY! Brawl is just 
 a slightly improved Melee. I assume 9 out of 10 people will enjoy this game, but rent/play it first 
 before forking out the cash.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: superrj
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Well heres the run down, the games the best you game you will get for the Wii. This game is a must 
 buy for Wii owners. The game has a multiplayer feature for the wii which is a first. You can unlock 
 most of the caracters from doing a certain amount of brawls and by doing the story. There are 35 
 unlockable caracters over 35 stages to brawl on and you even can make your own stage with, stage 
 builder. Well the controls are fun to use with the wii mote you can also use the Nunchuk, classic 
 controller and gamecube controller which is my favorit to use. The downfalls is, that theres barley 
 any dialoge at all in the story and the online load times can get lengthy and lag time to time 
 and no motion sensor controls thou. All in all this game is a must have. ----- {PS. If you need any 
 help unlocking characters or want brawl send me a message} -------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smashfanatic
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best. theclasic mode is still awsome. a couple more stuff u have to do to finish, 
 but still. sse is just awsome. u go up against theses minions of all kinds, EVEN R. O. B. S. the mode 
 has many options ang stratigies. the game plays out how and where you do things. the vault has 
 everything. from old game demos. to a gun thing FOR COINS. and a stage builder, totaly awsome. 
 home run contest now has a forcefield so u cant hit it out accedentally. multi-man brawl, same 
 deal as melee. and also they have events that youre in different situations. the character roster 
 is bigger than ever. same with stages. other unlockables such as music, trophies and stickers are 
 also avalible. what are all unlockables, NOT TELLING (they have a page just for that here on the 
 site) . this game is the absolute best ever.
  
  P. S. i gave this a 10, and i never give 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iTz_SH4DOW
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing it for a very long time since it has come out.
  The online modes are very exciting and great to play with random people.
  The Subspace Emissary 
 (Adventure mode) is very tough, long, and a great challenge for anyone.
  2-P event matches, Adventure, etc. are very fun ways to play whenever you get bored and have a 
 friend over.
  The new "Stage Builder" is amazing if you just make a very stupid map, a very challenging map, 
 or to create your very own dream map.
  There is very little lag in Wi-Fi game-play and very rare too.
  All in all, I'd say this game 
 deserves its #1 spot due to its great graphics, game-play, and also, its other features.
  This is an amazing game that includes what every player will ever dream of, making completely customizable 
 games, to a very strict game-play.
  This game should be popular forever until a new and even better one releases. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skeeter1255
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  well its finaWell it's finally here! Yes super smash bros for the Wii. All I can say is that it 
 succeeds! To the fun factor! Well this game has so many things to offer I mean there are endless 
 hours of fun to do with a friend or by yourself. There are like 30 characters and many maps and 
 if u gets bored with a map then you can create one yourself! How cool it that! There is also multiplayer 
 so if you're like me with the last one only enjoyed playing when friends came over when now I can 
 still play with others all the time! There are many hidden collectibles to find and lots of fun 
 to have. Also this time there is an adventure mode! It adds to the many things that are available 
 to do in the game! Also all the little mini games are back, if you enjoyed some of the maps from 
 the last smash bros, then you'll be happy that they brought some of the many fun maps from that 
 game to too add to the excitement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RazorEdge12
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I love this game is so much fun! If you have a wii buy this game. Dont think about buy it juste 
 buy it! Great roster, Having snake and sonic in the roster juste but the cherry on the ice cream! 
 Very cool level and if you dont like the level you can make your own! The adventure mode is so 
 long but some like kingdom heart and I have no problem with that! Multiplayer is 1 of the 2 best 
 think in this game and The online play omg it so mush fun. So go on buy this like now. There are 
 many Smash Bros. newcomers, like:
  1. Diddy Kong (from Donkey Kong Country) ,
  2. Ike (from Fire Emblem) ,
  3. King Dedede (from Kirby) ,
  4. Lucario (from Pokemon) ,
  5. 
 Lucas (from Mother 3/EarthBound 2) ,
  6. Meta Knight (from Kirby) ,
  7. Pikmin & Olimar,
  8. Pit (from Kid Icarus) ,
  9. Pokemon Trainer (controls 3 Pokemon, you switch between Squirtle, 
 Ivysaur, and Charizard to fight) ,
  10. R. O. B. (Robotic Operating Buddy - from Gyromite & Stack-Up) ,
  11. Solid Snake (from Metal 
 Gear Solid) ,
  12. Sonic the Hedgehog,
  13. Wario,
  14. Wolf (from Star Fox) .
  
  Lots of veteran characters from the original N64 Smash Bros. or its Melee GameCube sequel will 
 return, they are:
  15. Bowser (from Mario) ,
  16. Captain Falcon (from F-Zero) ,
  17. Donkey Kong,
  18. Falco Lombardi (from Star Fox) ,
  19. Fox McCloud (from Star Fox) ,
  
 20. Ganondorf (from The Legend of Zelda) ,
  21. Ice Climbers,
  22. Jigglypuff (from Pokemon) ,
  23. Kirby,
  24. Link (from The Legend of Zelda) ,
  25. Luigi 
 (from Mario) ,
  26. Mario,
  27. Marth (from Fire Emblem) ,
  28. Mr. Game & Watch (from classic Game & Watch games) ,
  29. Ness (from EarthBound) ,
  30. Pikachu 
 (from Pokemon) ,
  31. Princess Peach (from Mario) ,
  32. Princess Zelda (and her Sheik transformation after using the down special move) ,
  33. Samus 
 Aran (and her Zero Suit Samus transformation after using Final Smash - from Metroid) ,
  34. Yoshi (from Mario) ,
  35. Young Link (from The Legend of Zelda: Wind Waker) .
  
  Characters 
 who did not return from Smash Bros. Melee are:
  * Dr. Mario,
  * Mewtwo,
  * Pichu,
  * Roy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foxrider5610
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Supersmash Brawl is a great amazing game with everything. First it has a great roster 35 guys! This 
 game has to have one of the best soundtracks ever. Nice sound effects to with the hitting to the 
 weapons with everything. Lets start with the story mode I think its great I love the cut sceans 
 and I love how the nintendo characters are working together and everything and the coop is really 
 good. Classic modes back which is good if you want to get some trophys and stickers or characters. 
 Nice crisp graphics to right next to galaxy and twilight princess. Lots of awsome stages to lots 
 of things going on in them. I like the pikmin stage with that monster that pops out and trys to 
 eat everyone. Event modes back which is good and coop and event mode is cool. All star mode is 
 good too cause its coop and I like boss battle mode. Good online to its cool how you and a freinds 
 can team up and do 100 man melle and all of those cool games. If you have a wii I recommend this 
 game for you. Supersmash Brawl gets a 10 out of 10!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kroderick
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  This is real amazing. Think about it. Games are usually, "Oh Weeee. I just did 100% on it. Yay. 
Seriously, if you want fun, get this. Infinite/10. Period. If you do not get this, you are a 
 L. O. S. E. R. My little brother got this, and it is awesome!! If you are thinking, "This game is still 
 crappy. I don't care." Well, heh heh, SHUT UP. GET IT, even though it's like $50. Come on, people, 
 price isn't supposed to be everything. Concluding, get it, or ELSE! Because, if you get it, I shall 
 hunt you down, got it!? Good. :) So i hope i change your feelings about the game, like Awesome 
 to Perfectly AWESOME!!!! I'm serious. ^_^ If not, DIE! Jk. I just am making sure you are making 
 sure you buy this beautiful piece of gaming. I am pretty sure you'd love to see Mario vs. Sonic, 
 and make your own stages, and play the SSE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petey3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Finally the most anticipated game for the Wii is finally available and i'm sure most players are 
 not disapointed. SSBB includes the previous feel of past smash titles. With more characters and 
 levels, your battle experience and enjoyablity grow. Another cool feature they added is the stage 
 builder where you have the ability to create custom stages to battle on. There are also many new 
 items including the smash ball which allows a character to use their final smash ability. But, 
 the best feature added has to be the wifi capabilty. Now you have the ability to battle online 
 and show off your skills to other players. However, i personally feel that there are some problems 
 that should be fixed. First of all, when you play with anyone you can only play a 2 minute timed 
 match. I would have prefered to extend the time but still its only a minor problem. The biggest 
 flaw i would have to say this game has is the occasional lag issue. During certain matches, the 
 game begins to lag and this is extremely annoying. But overall super smash bros brawl is a must 
 have for any wii owner. i promise you will playing this game for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mizasterj
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  This review is NOT meant to offend in anyway it is merely an honest opinion.
  The game has a poor design and is fundamentaly flawed. 
  The mechanics of the game are poor and 
 underdevloped.
  Control is the worst element of this game. Characters slide around all too easily. The charcters 
 lack balance, for example some characters have a very short range attack, and others are slow to 
 the point of frustration.
  The game lacks intelligence and challenges become merely a matter of mashing the smash button repeatedly. 
 
  Random effects plague the game , giving the player no chance of learning or adapting. 
  Unlike other fighting game smash bros, becomes more of a battle to survive the stage rather than 
 actualy defeating your opponent through combat.
  The game lacks any simulation towards reality, and is very childish in nature. 
  the Wi Fi ability 
 is severly limited, and only allowis approximately 1 min to choose characters and rules. Furthermore 
 Co -op play has been restricted to "with friends" which means you will have to externally contact 
 other players for their Friend code. 
  Overall the game is truely dissapointing based on the hype from Nintendo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DzeTSNotorious
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  I can't give this game any lower than a perfect 10, there just isn't enough to deny it as being 
 a perfect game. First day alone I unlocked every character except for Wolf and had all, but 3 stages. 
 On Monday I already beat all the Event Matches and unlocked all Assist Trophies, Stages, and Characters. 
 This game leaves you addicted to the point that you just can't stop playing; the hype built up 
 for the release of this game only scratches the surface of the game's true image and enjoyment. 
 I believe that even those who are unfamiliar with the older games will find that Brawl is an amazing 
 game. Those who have played the older games would probably prefer playing it with a GameCube or 
 WaveBird Controller simply because of the format. The only downside if there even is one is the 
 controller set up of the other three styles, but even the Wii Remote on its side is 2nd best to 
 the GameCube controller in my opinion and has no downsides.
  
  This is the must buy for any Wii owner because when it comes to Nintendo you can't get much better 
 than the Mario series, Metroid series, and Zelda series especially when you put that and more together 
 in one non-stop fun game.
  
  If I could I'd give this game a 100 out of 10 just because its that amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Franklinstein
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I've been anticipating this game for a very long time now. Since the very first time I heard of 
 the new advancement in the series, I wanted the game. I just purchased this game last night, but 
 so far I've seen nothing at all that wasn't simply amazing. Super Smash Bros. has always been one 
 of my most favorite games. But this one somehow beats the rest and I crown it the king of Super 
 Smash. Unfortunately I haven't been able to try out the online play yet, but I'll bet it's nothing 
 short of genious. Game play is pretty simple, and basic, just like all the other games, new things 
 make this game worth it's weight and the price, just for an example the new final smash techniques 
 are really cool. An arsenal of new characters jumps into, including for the first time, third party 
 players, such as Sonic the hedgehog, and Sold Snake from Metal Gear Solid. All in all this game 
 looks pretty straight, and I'm cutting this review short to go play it somemore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hajatu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  this game really really really really rocks, but there is one pet peeve that i have... its not 
 with the game, relax.
  
  rather its with the wii itself. i dunno if you can transfer save files on a flash disk or anything, 
 but if you really cant, it kinda stinks if you bring the game over to a friends house and you dont 
 have all your characters... which is a bummer since there are so goddamn many. its a bit unfortunate 
 as well since the wii isnt too strong. sure the grapics are amazing, but it woulda been cooler 
 if it were really good.... but hey im happy with what it is, so thats just wishful thinking, lol.
 
  
  if the wii does have a function where i can transfer blocks, then ignore all of the negative sides. 
 i cant stress enough on how addictive this game is. i skipped school just to play it! XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dude30501
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  This game has outstanding qualities like improved graphics, better sound effects and features. 
 Some of these features would be newer items like the Smash Ball which can make you unleash a final 
 smash attack which is a super-powerful move that you can use once per smash ball. Other features 
 of the items would be moving while shooting, aiming up and down with the new Cracker Launcher and 
 making it easier to catch items thrown at you, you can just perform an attack in the air to grab 
 an item (even thrown at you) .
  
  There are way more characters that are different for certain areas like Mario being well balanced, 
 Ganondorf being strong but slow, Snake using explosives and such.
  - I really liked the way that some aerial attacks actually move you around like R. O. B. s Backwards 
 Aerial attack pushes him forward and some characters Down Aerial attacks force the character to 
 fall fast until he/she hits the ground.
  - Every character seems balanced, none are too overpowered anymore like in Melee *Cough*C. Falcon*Cough*Fox 
 and Falco*Cough Cough*
  
  The thing that is very fun is trying to beat a Level 9 computer player in Brawl with out items 
 because the computer player actually shields physical attacks now and they never comit suicide, 
 they dont fall for such lame tactics like Shielding to try and make them grab you so you can get 
 a "Free" hit. They can charge up Smash attacks and try to use different Methods to recover like 
 doing a Side special move instead of the UP special move.
  
  
  The single player mode is much more entertaining, the Sub Space Emissary is fun to score some points 
 and play co-operatively with a friend to try and defeat some enemies and bosses, you can buff up 
 your characters in the SSE by adding stickers to them which is a pretty good function to try and 
 improve your characters attack abilities.
  
  There is a stage builder to crate some simple custom stages to make fun maze like levels and such.
 
  
  Thats all I have to say about my review, it is very brief and may sound like im not extremely amazed 
 (because of the lack of words like Super and Awesome) but i assure anyone that i am extremely amazed 
 by this game, it has everything a person would want from a new Smash Bros game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReeceBrown
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  What can i say that people already haven't said...
  not alot there is like 100+ reviews right now. But anyway ill try.
  SSBB or course it is the 
 best Smash bros. Balanced, extremely fun and was worth the wait. This is the first smash bros where 
 i actually want to play the adventure mode, it reminds me of Donkey Kong Country but with more 
 characters. Snake was a nice addition, as was sonic. The online is broken on it but i tried on 
 launch day and that was a mistake: P. Anyway the new stages in which you fight are.. kinda lacking 
 IMO. Some of them are exquisite. While others are too small or too huge really. But the stage editor 
 and the added melee stages are a nice touch. Definetily the best multyplayer game on the Wii if 
 not the entire next gen systems. I've logged over 25 hours on it and yes i might need to slow it 
 down a bit because its starting to loose a little bit of its luster. Once online gets fixed and 
 i get a view friend codes ill be back on brawling like a 6 year old:) . The Events are fun, sometimes 
 the same stuff but some are completely new. I wish that you had to unlock more characters. But 
 Sakurai put a lot of content into that little C-D not just characters but stuff that is sometimes 
 even more fun to unlock. this games is awesome. But I'm more of a single player gamer, and usually 
 bye games because of a great story, so this wasnt the greatest game in my existance. Not Perfect 
 but is pretty damn close 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gemini_Red
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  The long wait it over, and Brawl has arrived. Great game? Yep. Better than melee? Yep. Perfect? 
 Not so fast.....
  
  Before we get into the bad sides of the game (which there are very few) let's look at what makes 
 this game near perfect. 
  
  Content........ there is LOTS of it. All of the staples you remember are back: Classic mode, target 
 test, event mode, home run derby, multi man brawl, and of course the multiplayer brawl complete 
 with several different way to play, different rule sets, item selection and so on. If you have 
 played melee than you are familiar with the trophies. They make their return, and like before there 
 are many to find. Gone however is the ol' toss in the coin in the dispenser. Taking it's place 
 is a shoot em up type of mini game where you fire coins at various ships for extras and shoot down 
 trophies to acquire them. This new way to get trophies is quite welcome, as it doesnt seem as random 
 as before and gives you a better chance to acquire new trophies by skill rather than luck.
  
  Stickers are also a new addition to brawl. Much like trophies you obtain them in many different 
 ways, the aforementioned shooter mini game, in classic mode, the Subspace emmisary (which I'll get 
 to) , and even in standard brawls you can find them.
  
  Onto the game play itself. If you are a veteran of Smash Bors., you'll get into this one pretty 
 quickly. The controls have not changed, but depending on what controllers you have available to 
 you, how those controls are used may differ. Nintendo played the controls right by giving you several 
 different ways to play. You can use the Wiimote, Wii/nunchuck combo, the classic controller, or 
 even the GC controller and/or wavebird controller. If you have one available I would encourage 
 players to use a GC controller, as it seems easier to use and more effective. If thats not possible 
 then the classic controller gets my second pick...... but I would customize the buttons on the controller 
 for better ease of use.
  
  Again if you have played melee, you know what to do. Batter other players until their damage percentage 
 gets high and whack them off the stage. The feel of this one and the pace it moves feels like melee 
 did, although it is a hair slower. Not too slow, but slow enough to notice. That being said, this 
 is still as frantic and fun as it's predecessors and even more so with the addition of a new item: 
 The smash ball. The smash ball is an item that will appear on the stage at random either through 
 capsules and crates or it will sometimes just appear on it's own. This item gives each character 
 the ability to do a "final smash" which is typically very destructive and has a strong potential 
 to knock one or possibly even all other competitors off the stage. Once one is spotted (sometimes 
 you can know one has appear before even seeing it, as a very subtle flash occurs on screen when 
 it appears) it can become a very frantic race between all players to obtain it and release their 
 fury.
  
  With the addition of the smash ball there are also assist trophies that appear. These assist trophies 
 are often nintendo characters who will assist you (duh) in your battles. Whether it is a legion 
 of excitebikes running your opponents over or Little Mac trying to deliver a KO, the assist trophies 
 can quickly turn the tide of battle much like the smash balls do. What comes out of assist trophies 
 are random though and will sometimes hinder everyone on stage, like the nintendog that blocks the 
 screen or Mr. Resetti who essentialy does the same thing. Still, never pass up an assist trophy 
 in a match as they have the ability to help you gain ground or further your lead in battles.
  
  Stages and Characters....... much like everything else the magic word is more. The count of 
 characters has been increased from 26 to 35, with 2 particular non-nintendo characters making their 
 debut: Sonic and Solid Snake. The great news is that despite the massive number of playable characters, 
 everyone is pretty well balanced. Sure there may be a character than seems a bit too strong (*cough* 
 DeDeDe *cough*) but even those can be beaten with a little strategy. For a game that only uses 
 a handful of buttons, this game can be deceptively strategic if you dig into a little. One you 
 learn the timing of characters and master your own attacks, strategic battles can be found here......... and 
 it is great fun. Stages are also plentiful and offer their own uniqueness in environmental challenges. 
 The stage itself can be a threat at times, which only makes the brawls more frantic, more challenging...... and 
 more fun.
  
  Finally, the multiplayer. I wont say much here because anyone who has played this already knows. 
 This is a great romp for you and your friends. The sheer chaos and crazy gameplay makes this a 
 must for Wii owners who have buddies who like game nights. This is one of those type of games where 
 you can lose complete track of time and not care. Players and even those just watching will have 
 a good time with this game. What if you don't have any friends nearby that play games? Thankfully, 
 Brawl can be played online so you will never have a shortage of people to play. You can use the 
 play anyone feature or play with friends (friend code required, and it's a different code than is 
 on your Wii....... ugh) so game night is whenever you want it to be. 
  
  Now with all the things that are great about this game............. which are plentiful, what does 
 it have going against it? Well there are a few things.
  
  1. The Subspace emmisary: While this is a nice alternative to taking EVERY character through adventure 
 mode in Melee, I felt that SSE had worn out it's welcome about half of the way in. It is enjoyable 
 enough at first, but after a while you may feel it being rather tedious and dull. After about 5 
 hours in the only reason I wanted to complete it was to unlock the rest of the characters.
  
  2. Online play: One of the games best features also has some flaws. Fighting random matches 
 against anyone can at times be frustrating to outright impossible. Oftentimes I would be searching 
 for competitors only to be booted before I find someone or worse yet, booted just before a match 
 starts. This will hopefully change or improve but at the time that I am writing this, I can consider 
 the play anyone mode to be unplayable. Play with friends worst FAR better most often as most you 
 will experience is lag which for the most part is not bad. Be prepared to have pen and paper handy 
 for friend mode though, as you will have to write down everyone's 12 digit code before you can 
 play them.
  
  In the end, Brawl is a fantastic addition to the Wii, and to the gaming world itself. You could 
 easily sink hundreds of hours into this game either by trying to collect everything, or playing 
 online..... or a combination of both. It has fantastic replay value, can be enjoyed by almost everyone, 
 and most importantly it's a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlucardsFate
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 3:51 am PT
Review:  
  Best Feature: Same character smashing gameplay with new additions, that all work! Fantastic multiplayer 
 as usual. Snake! Sonic! Pit! And a Charizard!
  
  Worst Feature: Wow... gotta think hard about this one... This is my fanboyish nitpicking but there 
 are characters I'd still like to see. Letsee, Peach is here but no Daisy... Sonic is here finally! 
 But no Tails or Dr. Robotnik (Or Eggman if you prefer, Death Egg Zone would be a baddass stage) 
 and why is Little Mac just an item and not playable?! 
  
  I know this review is fast, but I've spent a stupid crazy amount of time with this game since I 
 got it midnight on Saturday, (roughly 4 hours a day or more) so I think I can review it. And it 
 is fantastic! Like you expected anything less. 
  
  The game is upon first glance, exactly like Melee for the Gamecube, only with a few new faces. 
 This is great, it allows you to dive right in if you want to use the Gamecube controller. There 
 are a few new control options. The Classic controller, The Wiimote alone and the Wiimote-Nunchuck 
 combination. The Wiimote alone mashes the buttons together, I'm not a fan. While I initially went 
 for the Gamecube Wavebird, I tried the combination of the Wiimote and the Nunchuck... and after 
 some customization (Turn the tap up to jump off on the nunchuck, set it to Z, trust me) I actually 
 prefer my pink skinned Wiimote to my GC pad. 
  
  10 minutes later and I was right at home, the world would once again come to know Peach and her 
 mighty ass-bash! (Thanks for that Bri) I played the single player affairs for awhile, Classic mode 
 (The normal arcade mode from Melee) , The Challenges (Special Objective Missions) and the new Space 
 Emmisary Mode. (Lotsa neat sidescrolling stages, and the best way to unlock stuff!) Those are all 
 awesome, but thats not where this games best parts lie.
  
  They lie of course, in the multiplayer brawls, which are completely as awesome as you remember. 
 But while these seem pretty much the same, the gameplay itself has been tightened up. I don't find 
 myself losing myself off the side of the stage as much, I don't feel almost helpless being peach 
 in a battle full of Bowsers and Donkey Kongs. Play smart with her and shes unstoppable and quite 
 annoying to the opposition. Items are one of her biggest allies.
  
  Speaking of which, there are so many new items to be seen. Huge bombs, time slowing balls, a spaceship 
 and new baddass assist trophies that took me by so much by surprise the first time I saw them, 
 I stopped moving to watch the action, which was a bad idea when a polygonal Andross from the SNES 
 Star Fox started spitting tiles at me. And the best one I've seen so far was when Mr. Wright from 
 the SNES version of Sim City appeared and proceeded to land a skyscraper on top of me. (Not a very 
 good city planner are we?!)
  
  But most importantly is the addtion of the Final Smash item. The moment one appears in a multiplayer 
 game, all hell breaks loose as a mad scramble to break it occurs. Everyone is kicking everyones 
 ass in an effort to get it, for the rewards are great. The right to do your ulitmate attack. This 
 adds a more hectic pace to fights immediately. 
  
  This game is worth the $50 purchase price for the multiplayer element alone, especially since its 
 online now. The multiplayer is so irrisistable, that during my first multiplayer session, which 
 only had 3 players to start, my older brother who never plays any games except for Madden (and 
 Melee) rarely immediately wanted to jump in to smash as his favorite two Ice Climbers. Thats the 
 beauty of a fighting game like Brawl, hardcore players and the casual can play together, everyone 
 finding something they love. Well worth the line I had to stand in to get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lunar52
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2008 1:56 am PT
Review:  What can I say? A word that comes to mind when I think of this game is.... Masterpiece! This is 
 one of the best games I have ever played. More than 30 playable characters (including 2 third-party 
 characters) . Over 40 playable stages (10 of which are from SSBM) . There is just SoOoOoOo much content 
 in this game that It's mind boggling. I hope you enjoy my review of Super Smash Bros. Brawl!
  
  Game Play/Controls: 10/10
  
  The smash series is known for It's easy to learn controls 
 that even a total noob can beat a veteran. This doesn't mean that SSBB is a totally easy game. 
 The CPU's difficulty level can be adjusted but if your playing against a Smash master you will 
 get your butt kicked. You can also use 4 controller methods: GC Controller (the best IMO) , Wii 
 Remote + Nunchuke (not that bad) , Classic Controller (haven't tried it) , Wii Remote tilted sideways 
 (horrible) . If some buttons don't feel natural to you than you can adjust the control options which 
 is cool.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  Obviously the best graphics on the Wii! So much detail is put into each character and level design. 
 It's amazing! The CG cut scenes in the Subspace Emissary (adventure mode) felt like they were taken 
 out of a high quality CG film.
  
  Value: 10/10
  
  Stages and characters to unlock, stickers to collect, Trophies to find, Songs to grab..... SO MUCH 
 VALUE for only $49.99. Melee lasted most people about 6 years so do I need to say more?
  
  Overall Score: 10/10
  
  Every once and a while a true gem comes along. This time It's Super 
 Smash Bros. Brawl. Although it may be a sequel it definitely is the best Super Smash Bros. game 
 and one of the greatest games Nintendo has ever made.
  
  -Lunar52 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GDCalibur
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2008 1:52 am PT
Review:  Being a huge fan of the Smash Brothers series, like everyone else I couldn't wait for this game. 
 Been playing the series since it came out on the N64. Brawl takes everything from its predecessors 
 and adds to it. It's rare when a sequel is better than the original. But Brawl has done so in more 
 ways than one.
  
  The game has 35 characters to choose from, which for anyone is plenty to find the one that suits 
 you. You do have to unlock a few , but it just adds to the fun of the game. So unlike the other 
 games, Brawl has a lot of variety and thats a good thing. Brawl also some comes with a abundance 
 of levels to fight on. It even contains some from Melee as well. And once again theres so many 
 to choose from you really can't get bored of playing on them. And if you do, Brawl has an answer 
 for that as well. You can create custom levels. So your not happy with what Brawl comes with , 
 you can make that perfect level. There's more items as well, on top of the items you've grown fond 
 of from the previous. With the best addition is the "Final Smash" which lets your character unleash 
 his/her finishing move on one or multiple characters. Great thing is you have to fight for the 
 orb to get your Final Smash, so you'll have everyone fighting for that chance to their flashy finishing 
 move. It helps add a little spice to fighting as well.
  
  Smash Brothers is known for it's multi-player, and pretty limited single player. They kind of fixed 
 that in Brawl. By adding a lengthy addition known as "The Subspace Emissary". Which is pretty much 
 adventure mode but with all the characters involved in a long story. It's actually a bit to long 
 for my taste. As the levels consist of side-scrolling levels over and over again with bosses thrown 
 in. Its a nice change but at the same time it can be a bit tedious. But like I said SB is known 
 for Multi-player. And thats what it delivers best. So many options for multiplayer that you'll 
 be playing with your friends for hours upon hours. Also added was an online feature which lets 
 you compete online against people from all over. Which is great to test your combat skills against 
 the people all over. 
  
  So apart from the "lengthy" Subspace Emissary , there really is no reason not to buy the game. 
 Any fan of SB needs this game, and anyone that hasn't played SB needs to buy this. Brawl truly 
 delivers and than some. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angelic_Silence
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2008 11:54 pm PT
Review:  We have all played the oh so popular series of "Super Smash Bros." It all started with a simple 
 idea, and the N64. Nintendo released the instantly hot cake seller, "Super Smash Bros." Everyone 
 was amazed at how innovative the playing style was, and how fun it was to play with friends, and 
 use characters from various other games. Then, a few years later, the Gamecube hit the markets 
 and Nintendo released "Super Smash Bros. Melee" which stayed at the top of the Best Game and Best 
 Selling Game list for 4 years straight. That's quite and achievement. Everyone thought, "Man, it 
 can't get much better than this." Well, Nintendo proved everyone wrong and came out with "Super 
 Smash Bros. Brawl." This game, now with improved graphics and gameplay, shot INSTANLY up to the 
 top of the ranks. I looked. At first it was ranked "4 out of 44,068." Then, the VERY NEXT DAY, 
 it rose to "1 out of 44,168." That is no small accomplishment, that is EPIC.
  This game provides new characters, new items, new stages, new modes, and new online capability. 
 The characters are all very fun to play with, and Nintendo brought in some more favorites. The 
 stage design is beautiful. And for the lack of 1P in the first two games, they created the Subspace 
 Emissary Mode. An extremelly fun and interesting side-scrolling action game that has a very interesting 
 story coupled along with it.
  Overall, this is simply the best game of the year, and of all time. It almost even surpasses the 
 classic Zelda games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha0026
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 10:34 pm PT
Review:  I believe that this is by far the best game of the series, although the speed from melee wasn't 
 returned in this installment and i know that it skewed up allot of tournament players. There are 
 a few bad things about this game so ill say them, what you heard was true, the single player can 
 get repedetive, especially the maze at the very end of the game, but c'mon pikachu using thunder 
 on Ridly from metroid what could be better. That being said there are some of the best and most 
 interesting cut scenes in it, if you want proof, look up the great invasion. The multi player mode 
 however is like a great aged wine, its keeps getting better over time, since the first game its 
 gotten better and better and this game in no exception. There are a great variety of characters, 
 even the fox clones aren't exactly the same, if anything the three of them are much more different 
 than fox and falco in the last game. As for toon link i was surprised that he had at least 4-5 
 moves that were different from regular link, they may be similar but they still cause for variation 
 in them. All the characters are more balanced now than in the last game. This is a game that people 
 should not only get for their wii's but buy a wii so they can get it for the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeythemachine
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 10:26 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. The franchise started strong on the N64 and the basic ideas have been kept 
 intact.
  
  Compared to Melee, Brawl really is superior in all ways. The contrivances of Melee that confused 
 the original ideas, like the painstaking one way unlocking procedures and the overly wild gameplay, 
 are tightly corrected in this itteration. With Brawl, the developers managed to add content and 
 gameplay elements without causing the distracting hiccups which detracted from the overall enjoyability 
 of Melee.
  
  I haven't ventured into the online, because I've had plenty of people interested in playing with 
 me and I'm still unlocking, but I'm exciting to give it go. The Subspace Emmisary stuff is a little 
 fruity and not as balanced or fun as the rest of the game. The videos for it are amusing, but then 
 again I think with the scope of the game on whole it almost feels like bonus content. You've still 
 got the classic single player mode to fool around with, high quality CPU AI, events, challenges, 
 and even a Stage Builder which in itself has unlockable content.
  
  Anyway, this game is damn fun. PARTY TIME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danman_23
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2008 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Brothers Brawl is almost perfect in every way, in graphics, in gameplay, in value. 
 It is just an amazing game that is for everyone. For those who doesn't have this game, you better 
 drive down to the nearest
  video game store and buy it, cause you will be missing out on a lot, and
  i mean AAAAAAAAAAAA 
 LLLLLLLLOOOOOOOOTTTTTTT,
  and you will regret it for the Rest of Your Life until the Day you Die.
  Super Smash Brothers 
 Brawl with out a dought the best Nintendo Game in a LLLLLOOOOONNNGGGG TTTTIIIIIIIIIIIMMEEE.
  The game is truly amazing and is awesome really, in fact it is so awesome that you will be playing 
 it for years to come.
  This game is a one in a million video game no wait a ONE IN A BILLION VIDEO GAME, no hold on Super 
 Smash Brothers Brawl is a ONE IN A THRILLION VIDEO GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harsadi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  
  This game was exactly what I had imagined after seeing the many previews of the game. One thing 
 I did not anticipate was the game conveys a feeling of nostalgia from its music and the different 
 characters including the assists trophies and also a couple of the stages. This is a very nice 
 edition to the game because I don't see too many games that give a nod to throw backs. The music 
 is great but sometimes doesn't really fit the theme since the game has a lot to do with cartoonish 
 characters the whole orchestral music kinda feels strange it would have been a nice touch if it 
 weren't used so much. Graphics are good in Wii standards but could have been better its just a 
 step or 2 better from Melee. The best part is the amount of variety the game has to offer. This 
 game was made not to disappoint. 
  Adventure mode is not good the best word to describe it is okay. It could have been left out or 
 could have put more thought into it because it makes you do the same thing over and over again, 
 booooring. 
  I'm pleased with the character selection, but felt that more third party characters should have 
 joined in. Nintendo either wanted to limit the amount of non Nintendo characters or just can't 
 get the licenses to get the characters into Brawl I wished the roster was up to 50 then I would've 
 been extremely satisfied.
  If you have a Wii this is one of the games that you must have or there is something wrong with 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m1lkshakes
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Wow. This is definetly the greatest game of all time. The controls work, ) I use a wii-mote, no 
 nunchuk) but the nunchuk scheme isn't fantastic. The vast collection of available characters is 
 extraordinary, and stage selection is amazing. They even included an electroplankton stage. 
  
  Onto the actual gameplay. The brawls are hectic with 4 players, but still provide the same 
 excitement with less. Some of the new characters are awesome, like wolf. He's just plain cool. 
 Sonic is kinda stupid, but is unfortunately is one of the best characters.... and jumps so high 
 you can kill yourself on certain levels by triple jumping, even without the bunny hood.
  
  The adventure mode, which is completely revamped, is insanely fun. You can unlock all but 3 characters 
 by playing through it once, excluding jigglypuff, toon link and wolf.
  
  Wi-fi works, with a larger amount of profile customization for a wii game. Messages can be mapped 
 to taunts for communication in-game.
  
  
  
  
  
  So overall, super smash bros brawl is an excellent game, which may just shoot the wii up past the 
 360 for a month. Not the ps3 though, it owns. 
  
  PERFECTION IS UPON OUR CURRENT GENERATION OF VIDEO GAMES, TAKE ADVANTAGE OF IT  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faToe
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  The screen lights up, the Wii whirls and Nintendo's masterpiece finally comes to life. Super Smash 
 Bros. Brawl (SSBB) is the third game in its series and by far the best.
  
  At the manufacturer's suggested retail price of $49.99, this game is worth every penny. This latest 
 addition, rated T, delivers the perfection that fans have come to expect.
  
  The fighting system of the previous games comes fully intact, with new additions to moves, stages 
 and characters.
  
  SSBB can be accused of being a copy of its cousins, but the resemblance is only skin deep. The 
 controls are much the same, and the game can be played with either the Wii controller or the classic 
 GameCube controller many are familiar with.
  
  The single-player mode involves either classic mode, the tried and true fighting style of one opponent 
 after the other until no more are left, or the story mode.
  
  Story mode is a little bit of a letdown with long load times, lots of cut scenes, mostly boring 
 fights and random enemies being thrown left and right at your character of choice.
  
  Multiplayer is what this game was created for and it shines just as brightly as the game before. 
 Though the graphics for the fighters are marginally better, the levels and landscapes behind them 
 have been massively upgraded.
  
  Almost every level has something interactive to do with the stage, whether it be dodging lava or 
 speeding karts and cars, playing mini-games during the fight, or dodging incoming fire from passing 
 aircraft. If you're not one of the people fighting, chances are you're watching the beautifully 
 designed backgrounds and music tailored to every level.
  
  There is online play as well, but at the moment it is a bit slow, which Nintendo will hopefully 
 fix in the coming days. Unlockables are also back in myriads, including fighters, levels, achievements 
 and music. Each is kept track of in a separate part of the game and when you unlock one of these, 
 you can get hints on how to unlock a few more.
  
  This game is one that will keep both advanced players and new ones alike entertained for hours 
 on end. SSBB is worth getting for any Wii owner, and should be looked into for anybody remotely 
 interesting in fighting games. Let the brawl begin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skaterpunk5431
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  pros: great characters, lots of cool features, 4 control schemes, online brawls, great multiplayer, 
 great graphics, great adventure mode, solid snake is in it, you can unlock VIRTUAL CONSOLE TRIALS!!! 
 AWESOME!!!
  
  
  cons: god it always disconnects right when someone joins to fight me!!! wtf???
  
  well that 
 is my only con. yes, since it disconnects me from wi-fi, i had to take it down a hole .5 if it 
 worked, then i would give it a ten. but dont get me wrong, this game is awesome and you should 
 buy it no matter what!!!
  
  why do these reviews need to have 100 words? why do these reviews need to have 100 words? why do 
 these reviews need to have 100 words? why do these reviews need to have 100 words? why do these 
 reviews need to have 100 words? why do these reviews need to have 100 words? why do these reviews 
 need to have 100 words? why do these reviews need to have 100 words? why do these reviews need 
 to have 100 words? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aultman72
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  this is a very good game definately an instant classic it has an in depth story mode and great 
 multiplayer so great you can customize pretty much anything you want to even the map you fight 
 on you can play mega or mini invisible or metal what ever you want it is so much fun too you can 
 spend hours playing and not even notice with so many great characters theres so many diferent ways 
 to play and more to unlock but the problem is when you try to play online its hard to find people 
 to play with but that will all change soon once people finish the story mode they will play online 
 and then it will be great but when someone finnally does join your game it is so nice and fluent 
 it doesnt even seem like it is online and also there is no way to communicate whuile you play they 
 should have headsets or mics or something to let you talk with the people you play with and whats 
 with this friend code thing again its so annoying so much fun if you dont have it go and get it 
 right now
  
  well go what are you waiting for 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aLexanderrness
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  I started out playing the N64 SSB, and when Melee came out, I bought a Gamecube just for it. Then 
 Brawl came around, and sure enough, I bought a Wii just for it. I saved up my money, waiting 4 
 long hours in front of Toys R Us for a Wii and now it all paid off with Brawl in my hands.
  
  Sound 10.0: The music is truely great. There are a bunch of songs and the sound effects add 
 the craziness and fun in the game. The characters have a variety of voices and it adds some unique 
 aspects in the game.
  
  Graphics 8.5: The graphics aren't DAZZLING, but they are just right. The characters are done nicely 
 and the stages are great. Although some stages serve no purpose.
  
  Gameplay 10.0: By far the best gameplay ever. There are tons of things to do, play on wifi, play 
 vs a friend, subspace emissary, adventure mode and the old classic mode. I don't know what people 
 are complaining about on how short SSE is, but I think it's quite long. The variety of attacks 
 allow users to pick a favorite character and develop stradegies with them.
  
  
  OVERALL: If you do not own this game and you have a wii, you must be crazy. Even if you haven't 
 played Melee (which must mean you're an idiot) , then there is no reason you should not own it. 
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Memoryitis
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Brothers Brawl is a very unique fighting game. WIth only 2 attack buttons it sounds 
 very simple but in fact those 2 buttons can preform various attacks and is what makes the game 
 simple but also very addictive.
  
  When I first popped the game in I had a brief nostalgia of the N64; the one that got me hooked 
 into Super Smash brothers. Its pretty much the same game except they put a load of new features. 
 
  
  There is a new Adventure Mode which is VERY LONG but worth it to follow the story and watch the 
 cinematics.
  
  Then theres the Classic Mode, which is my favorite since it it plain and simple. Theres also lots 
 of other features like Special Brawl, Events, Tourney, and Rotation.
  
  The game also includes map editors, picture mode and trophy mode.
  There is also lots of other 
 crap but I am too lazy to put it here
  
  O yea I almost forgot the most important feature is ONLINE MODE, I was very excited when I played 
 it but soon became irritated because of the crazy LAG.
  The Online Mode is very broken and Nintendo better fix this situation. 
  -One thing is the lag, 
 with 4 players the game can become VERY VERY SLOW and sometimes unbearable to play
  -We need chat functions like Xbox Live, that would be crazy sweet
  -The random brawls only let 
 us have 2 min set matches
  -A suggestion for Nintendo is to create their own servers because hosted games can be very laggy
 
  -Nintendo should have been prepared for the Online since it is one the biggest things in SSBB, 
 they need to step up and improve the online
  
  
  Other than the Online Function everything in the game is pretty much sweet
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  The Smash Bros series did something that is remarkable.. take all the great Nintendo Series characters 
 and make them fight each other in a high paced fighting game. The Series started off on the N64 
 with a modest 12 characters.. they took the big names of the Nintendo Series like Link, Mario, 
 Samus, Kirby, Pikachu etc.. The game was very basic and very fun. There was some flaws but for 
 its time it was a great multiplayer fighting game. After that a few years later G Cube launched 
 and a new smash bros game came out. Melee doubled the characters adding characters such as Bowser, 
 Peach, Marth, Falco, and many more. This time Nintendo Padded the roster with a lot of multiple 
 series characters. Now after over 6 years later Smash Bros Brawl finally hits. It takes everything 
 good about Smash Bros and adds on it.
  
  The First thing you want to know about is how the characters, and basic multiplayer works. This 
 time we have 35 stand a lone characters (39 if you include ZSamus, Shiek, Charizard, Ivysaur, and 
 Squirtle as different characters) There are a lot of new series characters in this game like, Wario 
 from the Wario Ware Series, Pit from the Kid Icarus series, and Capt. Olimar from the Pikmin series. 
 One problem with every smash bros game before was there were always uneven characters. Not every 
 character is equal. This time most of the characters have an equal chance of winning. So if you 
 mained Shiek or Fox, you will find out that they have been weakened to balance the game. 
  
  Overall with 35 characters it adds a lot of great characters that are different. One thing 
 i really liked was that even though Clones return, They Luigify them, making them different from 
 the clone character example Wolf is much different then Fox if you play as them, but is technicallly 
 a clone. Would you want more characters? yeah prob. But as a whole, the roster is much better then 
 melee, the crap characters were taken out and cooler better characters are in. 
  
  Brawl also introduced two Non Nintendo Characters to enter. This is revolutionary because Now this 
 opened up any character. Two characters enter this time. Konami's Solid Snake.. who uses a great 
 amount of weaponds like a Missle Launcher, Gernades, and Bombs. And Everyones most anticipated.. 
 Mario's Rival.. Sonic the Hedgehog who is the fastest character in brawl.. so move over Fox and 
 Capt. Falcon.. Sonic plays just how you want.. and give props to Sakuri who incorperated these 
 characters and made them fit great. 
  
  The Main Brawl stuff is in multiplayer.. all the old modes are back such as Stock, time, Coin, 
 Tournament , and health. But some new modes are also in.. Switch mode is good when you have more 
 then 4 players who want to play. And Special Brawl.. where you can make some really crazy brawl 
 matches.. 
  
  the Items are better and have different series.. Some new ones are the Smart Bomb from Star Fox, 
 Pitfall from Animal Crossing, Clu Clu Land iteam. These are all great new items to make Brawl more 
 enjoyable. One of the coolest new items is the Assist Trophy . Simular to Pokeballs.. Assist Trophies 
 takes characters like Little Mac, Ray MK III, Nintendog, Waluigi, and many others to help you out 
 in a match. The biggest difference between Melee and Brawl is the new Item the Smash Ball. This 
 if you manage to get it will have you lauch a super attack. Each character has a different one. 
 Like Kirby who cooks every one, Sonic who turns into Super Sonic, and Ganondorf who turns into 
 Ganon. This item can really change the fight and are really cool to look at. 
  
  Some of the new stages in brawl includes Green Hill Zone, from the Sonic Series, Smashville from 
 Animal Crossing, Pictochat from the DS, Delfino Plaza from Mario, Luigi's Manshion, Shadow Moses 
 Island, Yoshi Island, Distant Planet, New Pork City, Bridge of Eldin and many more. Each character 
 has a stage to call home, and there are even more stages then characters. On top of that a lot 
 of the great old levels from Melee are back.. as well as custom Built levels that you can explore 
 your imagination and make great levels. What is good about this version is that all the levels 
 are fun and great to play as.. Also a new thing you can do in levels is have multiple different 
 Songs for the levels.. Under my Music you can customize what songs should play and how often.. 
 you can furthur customize the levels which is also fun. With a ton of music in the game you are 
 bound to find songs you love.
  
  Also This is one of the few games one the Wii that does not have motion senser controls. You can 
 however use 4 different types of control. Using the Wii Mote, Wii mote Nunchuck, Classic Controler, 
 and Game Cube controler. if that was not good enough you can edit what each button does, so you 
 have to find some way to brawl.. i prefer using the GCube Controler.. but all the ways can have 
 people playing them..
  
  With All the Multiplayer modes there is one more that should be talked about.. Online Smash Bros. 
 Now you can take fights over the Wifi connection and Battle. You can do different things online. 
 The First is the Random Brawl, where you play anyone at random. You know nothing about them you 
 just play. This mode you can have difficulty finding matches online. Another cool mode is Spectator 
 mode where you can bet coins on who is going to win. Also view some players play some rounds. The 
 better online mode is where you can play with people on your Friend List and can see names, do 
 stock modes and can do other cool things. Friend Codes are long and annoying but if you want to 
 enjoy online you gotta collect them. Online mode is mixed.. its better then most on the Wii, but 
 Nintendo as a console is not good at online so.. Brawl suffers since the game on the Wii.
  
  Smash bros Has always been a great Multiplayer game.. prob. the best multiplayer game. But 
 Now for the first time its has a decently good Single player mode. the Subspace mode is a 2D platformer 
 that is simular to the Kirby games, and cane be a game in its own. Subspace takes on different 
 characters from the game and eventually all come together for one common foe. The game can also 
 be played co-op so your buddy can play as well. Many other Reviews critized this, but i think as 
 an add on its amazing. an 8 hour experiance that is just an add on is really fun and neat. Also 
 In subspace you have some RPG like elements, like upgrading your character using stickers. 
  
  Like the old games Smash Bros has Classic Single player, where you vs characters in a linear 
 path, and All Star mode where you can play all the characters without dying. These are great as 
 well if you are alone and is another mode to play. There is also stadium mode where you can play 
 Multi Man, HR Mode, Boss Mode, and others. Single players is not as good as Mutiplayer, but its 
 still fun.
  
  There is so much to do in Brawl.. other things include, Collecting trophies, a shooting game to 
 get new trophies, a stage Builder, Vaults (Demos of VC games) making video of Brawl matches, taking 
 pictures, and the list goes on and on.. This game is the most robust game i have ever played with 
 so much great unlockables. i could go into more details about the Stage Builder or the Vault, but 
 all you got to know is that they are fun just keep making this game better
  
  With all the crappy Wii games out there.. Super Smash Bros Brawl is the Best game i have ever played 
 on any system, down to its modes, online, collectables and replay value this is one wii game you 
 should never sell because there is always fun and there is always stuff to do in the game. Every 
 day Nintendo Will give each user a new stage, so you can brawl in a new stage every freaking day!! 
 
  
  Overall Smash bros Brawl is the best Wii game, and takes what is good about Melee and make it much 
 better.. it not only added on to it, but it is a new game in its own, the game is not just a few 
 new stages and characters.. But a great game in itself. With Snake and Sonic in brawl.. this is 
 one game i will be playing for years and years to come.. Melee lasted me a long time.. and Brawl 
 will last even longer.. until the next Smash bros game....
  
  
  Breakdown
  
  Gameplay: Flawless.. balance characters, great fun, great online or offline single player or mutiplayer.. 
 the game rocks!
  Graphics: Don't compare this to a Xbox 360 or PS3 game.. Wii does not have the greatest graphical 
 power.. but Smash Bros uses all of it to make a beautiful Wii game.. most importantly the cut scenes 
 that look great! you can argue that this is the best looking Wii game
  Sound: Best Soundtrack period, take some of the best music from every game.. and put it into one 
 game and you get the soundtrack... its amazing!!
  Value: off the charts, compare to most games, this game should be worth 100 dollars.. it has so 
 much on that disc and it will be the best 50 bucks you will spend on a game
  Overall: Best game i have ever played.. this game lived up to my hype.. and is better then any 
 other game out there.. BUY IT.. if you have a wii you better go out and get this game ASAP!!!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stealthgunn
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl is the best game out there for the Wii right now because you get tons of 
 characters, new stages, and an awesome adventure mode. The Special Brawl mode let's you customize 
 your fights like never before. However back in Melee, you had to choose one. For example, you can 
 now choose between metal, slow / fast, stamina / 300%, and more. Or you can have all of those choices 
 in one brawl! Also the character roster could not have been better! There are characters to unlock 
 including Wolf O' Donnell from the Star Fox series, Snake from the Metal Gear Solid series, and 
 Sonic from Sega's Sonic the Hedgehog. As far as the controls go, I prefer the gamecube controllers 
 because it's not that different and you will still be used to it. Things that they should of put 
 in there however are a longer story mode, the loading time could be a little faster, and the online 
 could be less laggy (which I know nintendo will fix that hopefully) . So in conclusion, it's a game 
 you don't want to put down, great party / multiplayer game, and a game that will keep you hooked 
 for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uknownhero160
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  With 15 unlockable characters this game turns out to be the best Smash. Bros. Game ever made! With 
 a bigger variety of menu and a bigger adventure Brawl makes it better for us to play!
  Talking about a bigger adventure , this one is called Subspace Emissary 
  Where you can have 
 10 or more hours playing and finishing it! Its a much better and wider adventure than Super Smash 
 Brothers Melee , not just this , but there are also movies you can enjoy while playing it solo 
 or multy player!
  With more characters to unlock and alot more stages this game makes it a little more challenging 
 to complete and not counting the trophies and stickers and of course the wonderful soundtracks.
 
  
  One of the great things of this Wii game is the better visual design , the graphics are really 
 great and we are talking about a Wii game here!
  Movements are really well done!!!
  
  With much more menu such as Wifi you can have fun playing with your friends with lots of things 
 to choose but , we cannot use our created stages...
  
  Talking about created stages , this option is fun because you can create what your imagination 
 desires. The bad thing though , is that it is a little limited so you have to watch out how much 
 tools you use!!
  
  
  Let's now talk about other menus , like masterpieces , those are old games you can unlock and play 
 through them a short 40 seconds or 5 minutes , it depends which game you choose. It's fun when 
 you have nothing to do!!!! Other option lets you take pictures and take videos , you can take funny 
 pictures and funny videos anything you want!!!
  
  Now , we all know trophies are important and their are lots of them this is why , I think , they 
 have made a better way to unlock them it's called coin launcher , where you have a machine gun 
 and haunt for trophies and of course stickers!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  
  As you all know this game is wonderfully big and if you want to find out more , buy it!!! It's 
 really worth your money it even has 35 unique great characters and lots of secrets that are yet 
 to be found... Like group mode multy player etc.....
  
  
  P. S. : THANK YOU  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyCarnivore
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Brawl is probably the greatest game I have ever played! The Subspace Emissary is a lengthy, interesting 
 fun new mode. The events are challenging and the classic mode is... well a classic! The my music, 
 the challenges, the stickers, the wi-fi, and the multiplayer adventure are just a few of the new 
 features that are enjoyable. The new characters are great and so are the stages! This is a great 
 game and I highly recommend it to everyone. I think that nearly every single person could enjoy 
 this game. Hopefully everyone finds it as interesting as I do!! If they do make a fourth Smash 
 Bros., this one will be hard to beat!  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: showyamoves
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Review for Super Smash Brothers Brawl
  
  Super Smash Brothers is an amazing game. Simply put, it has everything a game needs. It keeps the 
 original formula of it's predecessors, but adds enough new twists to make it a breath of fresh 
 air. First off, the roster has been updated vastly. Third party characters such as Sonic and Snake 
 are now included to change it up a little bit. Included with these two characters are two new stages, 
 Green Hill Zone, which any Sonic fan knows and loves, is here; as well as Shadow Moses Island which 
 is a great addition. You might be thinking, how can Nintendo put in a Gun wielding military style 
 fighter to go head-to-head with cute little Kirby? It's a mystery to me, but it works. Also a new 
 addition is the online multiplayer, which is very welcomed. Part of the problem with Super Smash 
 Bros 64 and Melee were that once you didn't have anybody to play with, it became boring. Now that 
 you can connect with worldwide players over Nintendo's Wi-Fi connection. The online play is mostly 
 lag-free, which is remarkable. This game will keep you occupied for a long, long time. 
  
  What also makes this game so amazing is all of Nintendo's most famous and well known characters 
 being jam packed into one game. Not only does this make more dormant characters in Nintendo's games 
 more popular, but it also makes you want to buy the games for some of those dormant characters 
 as well. In Brawl, each character has a new final smash attack which is activated by a final smash 
 orb. Final smashes can switch the outcome of the game, and keep the game alive and active. To activate 
 your final smash attack, you must run around on the screen chasing the orb frantically trying to 
 knock all the life out of it before your opponents do. What keeps this fresh is if a person gets 
 the final smash but does not activate it, if an opponent hurts you enough, you unintentionally 
 release the orb and try to chase it again. 
  
  On top of all of this, there is an adventure mode. Nintendo had an adventure mode in Super Smash 
 Bros. Melee, but it was very generic, and redundant. The new adventure mode is called the Subspace 
 Emissary, and Nintendo probably changed the name because once people heard that the Adventure mode 
 from Melee was returning, they might not purchase the game because Melee's adventure sucked so 
 much. The Subspace Emissary is fun for a while, but then it feels like a chore. A long, 8-10 hour 
 chore which becomes really boring if you're trying to play it in one sitting. This mode can be 
 played with a friend, and if it is, it makes it go by a lot quicker. The Subspace Emissary was 
 very hyped up and Nintendo says they put a lot of effort into it, which is mainly only visible 
 by the cutscenes. Where to start with the cutscenes? They're beautiful, compelling, fun, and make 
 you feel like you're watching a movie. The cutscenes provide the best graphics on the Wii to this 
 date, and without them, this adventure would feel like cleaning up your room. However, the cutscenes 
 do not make up for all the wasted potential in the Subspace Emissary. The rest of the mode feels 
 like a average sidescroller with no story (there is no clear story) and lasts too long, except 
 towards the end where it actually feels like a bare plot is included which is actually enjoyable. 
 The only reason I reccomend to play it through is to unlock all of the characters without having 
 to play an insane amount of VS matches.
  
  This game has an insane amount of things to unlock. Stickers, trophies, stages, and music make 
 you want to complete this game. If you're one of those people who loves to collect everything in 
 a game, you will be here for a long time. The amounts of stages in this game is ridiculous. There 
 are a few from Melee, and a lot of new stages to keep you occupied. On Smashville, a new stage 
 taken from Animal Crossing, at 8PM on Saturday nights if you play there, Totakeke (K. K. Slider) 
 will make a live performance. Neat, huh? Brawl also has a stage editor. It isn't too fancy, but 
 barely gets the job done. You can put any music you have collected into a custom stage. Every day, 
 Nintendo selects a stage and distributes it throught it's WiiConnect24 service so every user can 
 try it. Keep submitting and maybe you will get lucky!
  
  All in all, even though I did bash the Subspace Emissary, Super Smash Bros. Brawl makes your Wii 
 worth the purchase. Before this, only games like Super Mario Galaxy and Metroid Prime: Corruption 
 stopped my Wii from collecting dust. With so many different things to do in this game, it is a 
 must buy for Wii owners. Guess where I'm going to be Saturday night? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decoy415
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is melting my face. For all those fan boys out there that whined and moaned about how 
 long it took to come out, I have only these words for you: 
  
  IT WAS ******* WORTH IT!!
  
  It was worth every minute. This is what every game should be. An incredibly polished and fun 
 experience. Each character is almost perfectly balanced. And for those who say this isn't true, 
 shut up. It is 100% true. Until last night I could not beat my roommate when he played Kirby. His 
 rock down special killed me every time. Until I realized that he is stunned for a split second 
 after he comes out of this form. Now he doesn't use it any more, because the second he comes out, 
 I launch him into the next time zone.
  
  The maps are fun and new. Not every map is perfect, (I HATE Donkey Kong's moving map. I can't multi-task 
 like that.) but each map is fun and challenging in it's own way. And the map builder is excellent.
 
  
  The adventure mode is ridiculous and fantastic at the same time. It's like something right out 
 of a Marvel / DC time-cross comic. Characters from a dozen of the best games ever created come 
 together for an action packed enjoyable story line, with incredible visuals between levels.
  
  The only thing I haven't tried is online play, but I have heard great things. And the ability 
 to play modes like a 16 person tournament and some wierd sort of 4 player brawl switch out mode 
 ( I didn't understand it but it looked awesome) .
  
  There's so much stuff it's almost too much to list. This is easily the best game on the Wii today, 
 and easily a contender for game of the year. Now if you'll excuse me, my roommate needs a flight 
 to China and I have to have Pikachu give him his ticket. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pikachukirby
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  THIS IS THE BEST GAME YOU WILL EVER PLAY!! So i got the game at midnight launch after winning the 
 first round of the Brawl tournament at Gamestop. I went straight home and played it from about 
 12:15am sunday til 2am monday. It took me about 8 hours to beat the Subspace Emissary on easy and 
 I have 82 percent. The game plays pretty much like Melee but is a little faster paced. There are 
 plenty of new and old characters with 35 all together. The really nice part is that there is plenty 
 of co-op in the game including target test, multi man, all-star, event mode, subspace, homerun 
 contest and the regular brawl (team battles) . The graphics are awesome as well. Final smashes are 
 here and there... some are super cheap and last long enough to take out two lives and some suck 
 so bad that you just use it to prevent your opponent from getting it. There are also plenty of 
 levels to play in and Final Destination makes its return to Brawl. There is also a Boss Battle 
 mode after you beat the SSE where you fight all the bosses from the SSE. The point is... GET THIS 
 GAME!! 10/10 Now let me stop writing and go play some Super Smash Bros Brawl myself!! PEACE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trogeton
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  WOW... thank you SOOOO Very much for this excellent game nintendo... this is the only game I have 
 been playing since it's release day I have over 20 hours on it already.... I LOOOOVE it, its soo 
 much fun to play,.. I can't stop playing it, I have been addicted to super smash bros since the 
 first one on the n64.. and that is one thing I and always count on, is when you guy make a sequel 
 it's going to have a lot of stuff added, and plenty of improvements, this game is by far the best 
 game currently out on the nintendo wii, and really I did get the wii mainly for awesome games like 
 this, but y'all have really out done yourselves, this is such a relaxingly fun game.. it's just 
 so great, just knowing that I own it and can get home and have a never ending blast on it.
  Great graphics, HIGHLY ADDICTIVE game play, great variety of game types, accurate controls ... 
 and ABSOLUTELY PERFECT for parties and even online
  
  NICE NICE NICE GREAT EFFORT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jab7604
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  We all have been enjoying smash Bros Melee for the gamecube for about 4 yrs and now its the Wiis 
 turn to cash in on the Craze known as Super Smash Bros. SSBB is the 3rd installment of the series 
 which originally started on the N64. With a cast of 36 playable characters compared to last yrs 
 24 toons the brawls are endless. With third party characters making their debut with Solid Snake 
 and Sonic Brawl offers a multidude of fighting styles andoptions.
  
  The game options are almost endless including everything Melee had and then some. from event objective 
 style fighting to in event mode, target practice, and a new adventure mode called subspace emissonary 
 (what ever its caller) the SSE replaces melees adventure mode into a split story mode, where multiple 
 nintendo icons team up to take down evil. Its not the greatest thing in the world but it helps 
 pass time. The CG cut scenes are very well done but it still side scrolling myem like the last 
 installment. 
  
  We still have classic mode which is always fun online is pretty good but with no voice chat or 
 leaderboard and no way to tell who youre playing against is a bummer, But the fact that we can 
 now brawl together over the globe is still exciting, 
  
  Now back to the characters which actually happns to be my only gripe. There are too many clone 
 characters. for Example Fox, Falco, and grey fox are roughly the same exact character. like Ness 
 and Lucas are very similiar but Lucas is a power demon if used right. I am pleased that sum of 
 my favorites are now in the game like Wario, Sonic and Meta knoght who rocks although olimar from 
 pikmin isnt alll that greatt but im sure they said the same about jigglypuff and if used right 
 can be deadly
  
  Now I no some people are dissapointed with the roster because their 3rd party characters didnt 
 get in but remember Nintendo doesnt have the rights to people like Master Chief and Marcus Pheonix 
 Mega Man, Dante, and whoever u want in this game but just like GH they put new stuff on it and 
 U just cant please everybody. So for the people who picker shut up and let the people who enjoy 
 the game for what it is and not what it isnt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hypersonic04
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  holy crap!!!!!!!!!!! This is, for many of us gamers, the reason i bought a wii. I thought that 
 nintendo was going to mess this one up and i am happy to say they didn't.
  
  all of nintedo venturines are back, expect dr. mario and mewtwo but they were just copycats, and 
 they have expended the roster to a wopping 35 characters, and form what i seen they all kick some 
 major butty. My personal favorite characters are lugi, lucas, pokemon trainer, link and luccario. 
 Nintendo has also expained the adventure mode with a story for how the characters meet up and why 
 they are fighting. However it unclear why ganon and bowers meet up; also it's confusing at pionts, 
 but that not enough to bump this game of a ten. also, the create a stage mode is outstanding you 
 won't be able to create the stages in brawl, but the stages you can build are up pretty cool, as 
 long as you have an imagination. to conclude, I would like to say this game rock and i am glade 
 i got a wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nthang989
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game and Mario Kart for a while now. One game is here and another one 
 is coming. I bought this game without hesitation and it does not disappoint. So many characters, 
 so many weapons, so many actions, and so many... This is a great game to play with a lot of people. 
 The only disappoint I can say is that I was expecting it to have some sort of motion sensor fighting. 
 Nevertheless, it is still fun to play smashing anyone in your path. My favorite character is always 
 Kirby, but like I said that there are ample of characters for you to choose. I believe there are 
 characters that you can unlock as well.
  
  A must have for Wii owners.
  
  For those who needs more explanation about the game. All you do is pick a character, have fun with 
 smashing buttons, and strategically knock your opponent (s) off of the platform. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goosu2006
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Well, i was definitely skeptical of all this hype that this game was gettin from the general, and 
 i actually was one of the ones gettin the hype up to tell the truth. When i finally get the finished 
 product, it definitely is the best in the series, but there is one crucial area that Nintendo needs, 
 needs, NEEDS to fix. That is the wifi capability. It is constantly crashing, and freezing, and 
 lagging, to make games go slower than a frozen sloth (i know, bad analogy, but you get my point) . 
 What makes this freezing worse is the fact that you cant escape from the game so easily when the 
 connection starts lagging, short of pullin your internet cable from the wii, which totally sucks. 
 Anyway, onto the rest of the game.. the multiplayer is just fine, and the tweaks and changes definitely 
 couldnt come at a better time. These changes make the gameplay much easier to handle, and easier 
 to keep up with the action. The problem that i had in melee with the too fast of a pace was fixed, 
 which has meant no more suicides from not knowing where my character was :) . The single player 
 being revamped was also a smart move, even though i didnt particularly enjoy the co-op version. 
 I mean, it made some fights much easier at times, but i think one flaw to this formula was the 
 fact that the first player could die, and the game would be over. If the second player died, the 
 first player was SOL, and had to deal best he could. It would have been much better to just have 
 both have the same standard, which wouldnt make one player seem more important than the other. 
 Anyways, everything else feels the same, and the physics are absolutely lifelike, right down to 
 the spontaneous trip ups by characters. The graphics are great, and the load times werent as bad 
 as people were tryin to say they were. Regardless, i stand a firm ground in being a little disappointed 
 in nintendo wifi. If nintendo decides to get a dedicated server to service the many new people 
 that came to wifi, than this could change, but as it stands now, if you didnt like SSB before, 
 and only want this game for the online portion, then prepare to be disappointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brippen15
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  SSB Brawl is so epic! I don't have my own Wii so I played it on my friends. I am seriously going 
 to buy my own Wii just so can have my own copy.
  
  The only things I wish this game had would be more playable third party characters. My choice favorites 
 would be Knuckles, and Tails from the Sonic the Hedgehog series, and Altar from the Assassins 
 Creed series. Also, I wish Ganondorf used his sword for some attacks. And I wish that they made 
 Mewtwo better instead of taking him out of Brawl as a playable character. But I'm not complaining.
 
  
  Overall I think that this game is great. Multiplayer is amazing and so is the Subspace Emissary 
 story mode (I love the cut scenes!) . SSB Brawl has the guns to rival games like Halo 3. The replay 
 value of this game is going to be 10 times greater than that of SSB Melee. I strongly recommend 
 this game to anyone that can pick up a controller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surfingpichu
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl was highly hyped to be one of the best games ever. I'm here to confirm 
 that fact. Brawl is clearly the best game in the series. Featuring many ways to customize your 
 matches, the ability to share your created items with others, and a well balanced character roster 
 full of surprises. Even the little things in Brawl boost up it's points. The only con that I can 
 think of is that it;'s online could use some improvement. It's new solo mode the Subspace Emissionary 
 is very interesting, but is often complained about., but usually because the complainer tried to 
 play it in one sitting. Even the returning things have improved. Weaker characters were buffed 
 while some of the stronger characters were nerfed. Classic has a different feel to it which I personally 
 could do without. All the new characters, stages, items, and modes add to the fun. Overall Brawl 
 is a very good sequel and my personal favorite game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jakabillybob
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2008 7:38 am PT
Review:  First Dec. 3, then Feb. 9, then finally, MARCH 9th!!!! I got to tell you that this is one of the 
 best games ever for any nintendo console. (For the Wii) the Visuals are pretty much top notch and 
 also I can book a god 200 hours easily playing against other people on the Nintendo Wi-Fi. The 
 character selection is abstract and very good saying that they finally added third-party names 
 and also the Subspace Emissary is definately way, way better than the adventure mode in SSBM I 
 did a pretty good 10-13 hours playing SSE. But probably one of the best things that made me like 
 this game so much was deinately the Brawls that go on against other people, I mean seriously people, 
 what other game is as fun as this Multiplayer Wise (other than the Haloi games) . The Events are 
 a pretty good, and the classic mode is fun also so all of this in play, I would have to give Super 
 Smash Bros. Brawl an 10/10. And also if you hadnt preordered it or didnt get it the day that it 
 came out and you have a Wii, SHAME ON YOU!!!! If you have a Wii and you dont already have this, 
 than definately make this your next purchase for the Wii!
  I hope that you liked my review of SSBB so please comment or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  You may not agree with the above statement, but Brawl is honestly the best game I've ever played. 
 It is jam-packed with so much content, it could cost $100 and still be worth it. It keeps the perfect 
 gameplay of Melee, and makes it better. How do you make perfection better? In this review I'll 
 show you how Nintendo did the impossible.
  
  There are so many features that it'll make your head spin. Everything from multiplayer fights to 
 co-op side scrolling to level making to demos of Nintendo's classics (including Super Metroid) . 
 There is trophy collecting, sticker collecting, movies, training, coin launcher, home run contest, 
 tournament, target smash, endless brawl, training, single events, and much more. It would take 
 a long time before you complete all of the stuff in the game and unlock all the characters (even 
 if for some reason they are easy to unlock this time) . Every thing is made easy to get access to 
 by an easy menu system and a chart that lists everything you unlocked and how to unlock more. Making 
 special brawls is easy because you can customize everything. Everything. There are an unlimited 
 number of different fights you can do. Amazing. Overall, the design of how the features work is 
 perfect. 
  
  There are the unlimited number of fights. Fighting you friends or bots never gets old because of 
 the perfect gameplay. It is funny, cool, and one of the most fun experiences I've ever had. There 
 are new enhancements to movement and attacks that most people probably won't notice, but they make 
 it all better. There are new items, such as Final Smashes, which add a whole new element of craziness 
 to the game. There are 35 characters in the game, and the roster is much better this time around. 
 The characters are not complete clones of each other, which adds to the replay value because it 
 takes longer to master each of the characters. 
  
  The characters are awesome. Sonic, Snake, Olimar & Pikmin, Meta Knight, and Pit are all much different 
 from all the other characters that they add a whole new experience to every fight they are in. 
 All the characters control perfectly too. Your favorite character is sure to be in Brawl, and better 
 than ever. There are also cooler color changes too. 
  
  Then there are the areas to fight in. They each have their own "gimmick" that make then very fun. 
 The Temple (the best stage ever) from Melee makes a welcome comeback. All of the stages have a 
 lot of details and look very great graphically. Infact everything looks perfect in the game. The 
 graphics are the best I've seen on the Wii. Anyway, the stages are varied and exciting to play 
 in and there's bound to be a stage you like the best. If you don't, you can make your own stage 
 using the stage builder. You can make almost any stage, and are limited mostly only by your own 
 imagination. 
  
  There are different ways you can experience the brawls. There is Tournament, basic brawl, Wifi, 
 multi-man brawl, and Classic mode. Wifi works better than any Wii game's online yet, and is sure 
 to bring fun competition for ages. Classic mode is one of two of the "story" modes. The second 
 of which is the Subspace Emissary- a complete game within a game.
  
  The Subspace Emissary is a complete side-scrolling game with all the bells and whistles- cutscenes, 
 story, RPG elements (more on that later) , levels, bosses, and co-op. They made couldn't have serious 
 story of angst, sorrow, horror, drama, and character development because it wouldn't have worked 
 in the Smash Bros. universe. So instead they made one of the craziest awesome stories in any game. 
 It seems like something out of a fan fiction story. Just experience it for yourself. The graphics 
 are the best I've seen in a side scrolling game, and the cutscenes are the coolest. The bosses 
 look amazing, They are 3D in a 2D world, and the lighting on them makes them fun to play against. 
 The RPG element include putting certain stickers on your character to boost their stats when you 
 play the game. An original, fun idea, that makes you put thought into how you want to make each 
 character unique. The SSE Is about 4-5 hours long of side scrolling, fighting action. That includes 
 Co-op!!!
  
  Brawl has the best music of any game ever made because it has the best. It includes the most memorable 
 themes and best songs of every Nintendo game so far in it, and you can choose from a list of different 
 songs for each stage. 
  
  If there anything else to say about this game? Nintendo has defined what a videogame is with Super 
 Smash Bros. Brawl. And they did it perfectly. There is no way to make the game better. Nintendo 
 included things that most people wouldn't even think about, and made the best game ever. I've never 
 gave a game a 10 before, because there has never been a game that I thought was perfect. But now 
 there're is, and it is called Super Smash Bros. Brawl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tim_Drake
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2008 4:12 am PT
Review:  I was hearing so much hype for this game and so I decided to see what the fuss was about. I was 
 never into the old school Super Smash Bros. on Nintendo 64 and Gamecube, I did indeed play Super 
 Smash Bros. on N64 and I was sort of enjoying it but then it didn't surprise me that much so I 
 left it and continued on with my gaming life. 
  
  
  I bought this game not knowing what to expect, I got the game on the 8th of March and popped it 
 into my Wii and started to play the first few levels. I even recorded some video of me playing 
 the game, I can tell you that with me being a beginner at Super Smash Bros. Brawl I wasn't really 
 familiar with the controls, I did end up using my Gamecube controller to play this game and it 
 felt very comfortable instead of using the Wii mote.
  
  
  I put up a video of me playing the game and it got featured in the User Videos on the 11th of March. 
 As I progressed through the game I unlocked a lot of things including characters. When I got a 
 total of about 14 hours on the game I was hooked! I'll leave with this ending comment before I 
 get into the game. I was never a fan of Super Smash Bros. but after playing Brawl I think I'm going 
 to love this game forever more than most of my other Wii games.
  
  -----
  
  Sound: When I saw that it didn't have Dolby Pro Logic II on the game I was sort of upset but then 
 again if you have a nice stereo setup you'll get nice sound and music from all 5 speakers without 
 the use of Pro Logic II put into the game. Crystal clear sound, and ambience is a neat touch when 
 playing through Subspace Emissary in certain areas like the forest and Subspace levels. I'm very 
 happy how the sound turned out, I'm starting to understand why they didn't apply the Dolby Pro 
 Logic II to this game because when it comes to sound effects there aren't very much sound effects 
 that develop a 5.1 feel.
  
  
  Graphics: I was very pleased with the graphics, I like how most of the characters look too like 
 Donkey Kong and Diddy Kong, the hair looks so real and I love the backgrounds to the levels very 
 nice, they really put the time and effort into this game to make the graphics look superb. I think 
 that even though the Wii might not be as great as XBOX360 and PS3 in the graphics department but 
 it still gives a strong FALCON PUNCH! to most games on other systems.
  
  
  Gameplay: I love the gameplay it plays very nicely I had no complaints about how the game was running 
 or how I was fighting and learning a lot while I advanced into the game. I love some of the things 
 too like the Star Fox and Snake Conversations in the game, very entertaining.
  
  
  Controls: I ended up using the Gamecube controller to play this game, I like how you can use the 
 three remote choices Wii mote, Gamecube controller, or the Virtual Console Classic Controller. 
 I learned how to do the taunting, and other special moves with the Gamecube controller with all 
 those buttons it makes it easier to do moves and other things that the other controllers can't 
 do.
  
  
  Overall: Well I think the only pet peeve I have with this game is the online feature, I think with 
 so many people on the servers they literally destroyed it causing players to disconnect when trying 
 to play random Brawlers. But if you have a Friend to play with or fight against you'll be glad 
 to know that feature works for those using the Friend Codes. The online feature I hardly use but 
 I think with everything else in this game it makes you forget that the online feature is broken. 
 It's the best fighting game I've played on the Wii yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TENTHROW2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 9:53 pm PT
Review:  I'm not really going to talk about the gameplay or graphics - by now, you should know a smash bros. 
 game. It looks great and plays greater.
  
  The real story behind this game is the pure value. A $50 game with this much content would be considered 
 illegal by other game developers. There is sooo much to do, and so many options it's truley impressive 
 for a game these days.
  
  You have a ton of character options, tons of match options, solo content, group content, online 
 content, and so much more it's head spinning.
  
  The other small detail to the developers and others maybe, but a HUGE bonus for me - is the fact 
 that you can not only use the wii mote/chuck - but you can use the wii mote by itself horizontal, 
 or the classic game pad! This option floored me and made me realize how much time and effort nintendo 
 put into this game. It's truley one of the best games available today on any platform.
  
  If you have a WII - you must own this game, this is possibly the best money spent on a game since 
 The Orange Box with it's stellar content for it's price.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorpion1197
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Eye Candy as far as you can see, The Best hands down in any series the characters are perfect there 
 is no annoying glitchy slowdowns and the action is unlimmited. I have said enough anybody who bought 
 the Wii for any other games is missing out if they don't own this even if you can play Mario Super 
 Smash Meele with the backward compatibility of the game cube features. It does not compare to the 
 quality of this phenominal title.
  
  Wait theres morre?
  
  you can use every imaginable device in this game joystick , remote, nunchuck, GC controller, or 
 standard controler. No one is missing out here.
  
  I love the addition of the new characters and their ability's but I especially like the lighting 
 they have put in this it really shows excelent shadow effects and angle shots are easy on the eyes. 
 You can tell they did alot of wire frame modeling. Every move a picture literally you can freeze 
 a shot blow it up and save it to memeory were you can load it to you home pc and make a picture 
 book or make some awsome wallpaper designs the choices are unlimited.
  
  Just Get One! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Innocent_J
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  SSBB is an entertaining game with a very wide variety of customizations and options. With an amazing 
 selection of characters, you shouldn't get bored with the character list, you should have a hard 
 time deciding which one to use (I do) . Online multi-player is just as fun as local multi-player. 
 The only down-side is that after you've completely your match with a random person, you'll never 
 meet them or play them again. They're gone.
  
  No real records are kept in online, as in how many you're played, how many you're won, etc. But 
 it's still a great and very exciting game. The visuals are one of the best to come to the wii. 
 Very smooth frame-rate regardless of all the action going on. Controls are easy to set up and use. 
 
  
  All in all the game is very exciting, and although there aren't really a whole lot of moves to 
 take out, it's still amazing to watch, and because of that, it doesn't really get boring. Not quickly 
 anyway.
  
  There are a whoooole lotta things to do and keep track of in this game. Like no other SSB. If you 
 enjoy faced paced fighting games, you seriously need to pick up this game... asap.
  
  Btw it will most likely take you a while to pick a character which you are totally comfortable 
 with and learn with quickly. Mine is Meta-Knight =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwe4ever_in05
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  When I went to buy this game I thought I was going to be buying a game that was like Melee with 
 a a few things, and some extras, but Super Smash Brothers Brawl is a really, really great game, 
 Let me explain.
  
  First of all, the first thing you should try is the Classic solo Mode where you Choose tyour fighter, 
 then choose how many lives you want, then choose what level of difficulty and then fight other 
 characters, from Teams (which are easy to KO) to Metal Characters (which are heavier and hard to 
 KO) then there are also two Break the Targets rounds, and a round where you have to face three 
 characters, then this enemy that is non playable called The Master Hand, and when you beat The Master 
 Hand, you get that characters trophy.
  
  If that is not what you like to start with you can go into the Multi-Player Mode and, fight with 
 your friends.
  
  There is also the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection mode, Where you give out your number that people have 
 to put into there Wii, so you can fight them.
  
  There is also alot of extras, like Stats, and this one game called Coin Launcher, where you can 
 win alot of Trophies and Stickers.
  
  There is also this other Solo Mode, that is like a Story mode where you Unlock alot of Characters.
 
  
  There is also a mode called Event Mode, where your trying to complete Missions is really all it 
 is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mytsco
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is one of the best games I've ever played. It's full of adventure, strategy, 
 fighting and pure fun! The Subspace Emissary happens to be one of the best story modes I've ever 
 seen, even if I haven't fully completed it yet. After just two days it made the top Wii game. No 
 doubt it'll be game of the year! If you have friends with you, it'll be best to brawl with 35 characters, 
 nearly half of them being new to the series. Of course there's still the classic Mario and Donkey 
 Kong, but now they've added Pit, Ike and many more! You can also play with a friend in The Subspace 
 Emissary too. Co-op may be easier than doing the actual work yourself. Now Super Smash Bros. has 
 gone online too! Play with anybody or friends, or just watch a match using Nintendo Wi-fi. I recommend 
 this for people of all ages, whether an adult or a younger kid, it'll make hours of fun for anybody. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGecKOo
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  This Game is Great !! Not only just for the button mashing play style fighting , you get you monies 
 worth with the single player story mode. Think of this game as two games in one!!!
  
  The fighting aspect of the game is great it is fast paced and just plain fun. Fighting off-line 
 is good especially with buddies. (4 at a time) . Online Expect the same experience the only problem 
 I Had with the Online mode is no voice chat and no user names and no leader boards 
  
  What I especially loved was the Single player/Co-op Story mode. The Story was surprisingly immersing 
 and had a Slight feel of Kingdom hearts. Each level was designed perfect for the characters almost 
 if you were playing a complete game with them as the hero a. k. a the "pikachu" game or a new metroid 
 game!!
  
  One feature I thought I was going to love was the level designer.... at that said forget about it 
 they should not have even put it in this game... lack of any room for creativeness.
  
  
  Overall this game is defiantly worth the money and with all of the characters to choose from anyone 
 can find one they can utilize to kick someones butt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario-Luige
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: Many cried themselves to sleep at night wondering if the pace of the game really was 
 slowed or if it was worth the wait, well trust me, it is just as fast paced and was worth the wait!!! 
 Once again gameplay is simple, fun, and easy. If you want to play old-school classic controller 
 and gamecube controllers are usable. If you want to try something new with the smash games then 
 try nunchuck or the wii-mote by itself. There are a never-ending amount of possibilities of things 
 to do ranging from a 7-hour story mode, a boss battle mode, clssic, Brawl, Special Brawl, Tourney, 
 Multi-Man, Challenges, and Events and almost every single one with Co-Op making this game thee 
 best multi-player experience anywhere! 10 / 10.
  
  STORY: Well if you decide to try out Subspace Emissary the story mode it is almost a complete second 
 game within a game! The story is told by action-packed and sometimes humorous cut scenes with the 
 best graphics the Wii has ever pulled off. The story progresses as many groups of players are after 
 different objectives when eventually all the groups collide and join to fight off the subspace 
 threat. The levels are set-up like a classic 2-D platformer and sometimes way more challenging 
 then it looks. There are a never ending amount to the variety of strange Primids and other weird 
 Subspace creatures. The story can take about 7 hours and is worth it all the while. 10 / 10.
  
  MULTI-PLAYER: All the games I've ever played there has never been one with so many multiplayer 
 options. With 35 Characters and 41 Stages and with stage builder to create even more the fun NEVER 
 STOPS! Every single mode (except for classic) is MULTI-PLAYER!!!! Nothing in the game limits you 
 to one person. Special Brawl has tons of wild and destructive combinations. Not to mention the 
 50+ items and all the guest appearences, Assist Trophies, and Pokemon. Event mode even has completely 
 different events for co-op. Play anywhere and anytime with anyone is Brawl's attitude!!! 10 / 10.
 
  
  GRAPHICS: Unmatched by any Wii game ever and almost flawless. Need I say more? 10 / 10.
  
  OVERALL: This game is so jam-packed full of possibilities and variety no matter who you are 
 you'll love this game (unless you were 100% Geno or a Sonic hater) . This game is worth so much 
 more then $50 that I can't even believe it. Never in all my years of gaming have I seen such a 
 great amount of content for a relatively low price, well except for maybe orange box. The point 
 is this game is a 100%, you are not complete without, neccessity to ANY WII OWNER'S COLLECTION!!!! 
 This game perfects nintendos greatest series ever! A solid and never-ending 10 /10!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kronic23
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  You can't go wrong with this game is is nearly flawless. The game is a great multiplayer. If you 
 want to duke it out with nintendo characters this is your game. Since the last super smash bros 
 this games graphics are better and more detailed. The gameplay is a lot of fun. You have at least 
 3 people your all good cause anyhting can happen in this game. There are 35 characters to choose 
 from. A grip of stages from different games. The game looks and sounds great it also plays great. 
 There are just a few minor flaws in this game. One is the game feels a little slower than the last 
 game. Finally to get your special you have to hit it multiple times, they should have made it that 
 you only have to hit it once. Besides that this game is great. Everythong about this game is good. 
 You can even create your own stage. So this game was worth the wait and worth the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic3456
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  The game every wii owner has wanted since the system first launched, Super Smash Bros Brawl is 
 finally in our grasps. Not only is it the best game in the series, not only is it the best game 
 on the wii, nintnedo has just made the greatest game of all time. This time around the Super Smash 
 series has a plot in "The Subspace Emissary," but I'm not gonna spoil any of it because a lot of 
 this stuff you'll wanna see for yourself. Lets get to gameplay, first off you've got 4 control 
 schemes (for purposes of this review I'll be talking about the Wii remote and nunchuck control 
 scheme) . Well you've got the A button which is your basic attack, the B button on the back of the 
 remote is for you special moves (move the joystick for different attacks) , 1 and 2 do your taunts 
 (hold down both for a third taunt) , the C button on the nunchuck is your jump, the Z button on 
 the nunchuck is your sheild, hold down A and B to grab. Now once you break a smashball hold down 
 the B-Button to unleash your most powerful attack, The Final Smash. The graphics in brawl are incredible, 
 while there not as good as Mario Galaxy, it's definately one of the Wii's best looking games. This 
 has got to be the best sounding game ever made the music is really fantastic and most of the voicework 
 is extremely well done (except for the fact that Jason Griffith is still voicing Sonic, I hate 
 Jason so much!!!!!!!) This game has more replay value than any videogame before meaning you'll 
 have hours of fun for years to come. With 35 characters, the best music in a game ever, and an 
 interesting plot who can argue that Super Smash Bros Brawl is the greatest game of all time??? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ped101
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  I rarely get so biased on an review. But this is most likely the best game i have ever played. 
 Its beautiful. The graphics are the best on the wii. The sound is perfect.... what can i say?
  
  Super Smash Bros Brawl has managed to innovate quite a lot and still keep that nostalgic feeling 
 running in the gamer's veins. We see old and new characters fight it out on a whole new game which 
 manages to stay within the pre-established barriers. The engine of the wii is pushed to new extremes 
 with SSBB, and it is completely lag free, both online and offline
  
  The sound is something quite revolutionary, with actual orchestra music and songs, which add a 
 fresh breeze to the old sinthetysed sound effects
  
  The gameplay is as good as it can get. If you don't have anyone to play with, there are many options 
 to play alone, in the solo missions. And if it wasnt enough, many of these missions have a co-op 
 mode, which brings the versatility of the game to new levels 
  
  It is THE best Smash Bros yet and it will be hard to top that off in any future console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eboyy47
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  I of course got very hyped up about this game and would always talk about it at school but when 
 i finally decided to buy it I was expecting way to much from it. First of all I have yet not found 
 a decsent enough contol sceme where i could be succesful enough to beat the people online. I also 
 don't like how fast it is. It is so hectic that just like arcade games, your just pressing every 
 button possible. I know that i was really good at the older versions and should do way better than 
 this. 
  
  Well, here are the pros. I really love the graphics and amount of charactars. There are really 
 colorful and I don't think that the PS3 can do anything to make the graphics better. There are 
 so many characters from every world you can think of and most of the time, this game is so addicting 
 and makes you want more. I got to admit that my mom was screaming at me for playing this game so 
 much. another thing that i like about this game is the commentery and different types of modes. 
 Online is pretty good but too competitive and unlocking characters can be a sinch if you set it 
 to one stock and have the dieying contest with your retarted cousin and brother who think its fun 
 to die. Another thing, it is really cool how they added the new smash ball which can be fun easy 
 and sometimes frustrating to use. Overall i think this is a good game but can be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chozzenn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  The time has come and super smash brothers brawl has finally arrived, and it arrived with a smash 
 of awesomeness. Super Smash brothers has ruled in the 2 games it already made and returned to rule 
 once again by creating one of the greatest games available for the wii. To begin with, there is 
 rarely one character (besides luigi) that you can't love, they are all amazingly designed for strategy 
 based on their skills. There are so many different combat designs your liable to find your one 
 good character. There is a total of 35 characters in this game, a few of them need to be unlock 
 but the majority is already available. The story mode in the game is quite captivating and lengthy. 
 You go through a series of battle each with different characters with up to one other friend and 
 battle off a foe trying to destroy the world. The one and only side effect that I truly believed 
 was a big let down about this game was that there isn't any advantage taking of the wii's motion 
 technology, it is all controller based which I don't really mind but a little use of the motion 
 in some minigames would be nice. The new trophy obtaining system is different aswell, as you play 
 through story mode there are X amount of trophies on many levels that can be obtained. Also you 
 can pick up this golden disc in some areas and throw it at a opponent and transform him/her into 
 a trophy for your collection. Also instead of the old slot machine type minigame there is now a 
 game where you collect tokens throughout battles and at the end of stages and then use them to 
 shoot at trophies that slide across a board while getting past obstacles. The game also has its 
 special battles and customizable battles. They also have added new event battles between specific 
 foes with a little storyline for you to do. The new level building option is pretty interesting, 
 you can build your own but apparently can't use it in online play. This game has truly caught my 
 eagerness and earned every little bit of hype that it recieved and I personally believe anyone 
 that owns a Wii should own this game, its a mere 50$ for all this incredible gameplay and features 
 well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshi34
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  There is no way to avoid brawl: Nintendo's final super smash bros. game. It is thrice as good as 
 Melee and 40 times better than Super Smash Bros. A great storyline from the adventure awaits you 
 as you get ready for brawl. You can play as Wario, Zero Suit Samas, Pit, Sonic, Snake, Ike, or 
 anyone of the 38 characters in the last game of Super Smash Bros. You can play some of the melee 
 stages that were good, but if you'd like to play them all, keep melee and continue playing that 
 for fun. You still have the good ol' version of the single player from the first game and Melee. 
 You can use a classic controller, gamecube controller, or the wii remote with Nun-Chuk. And you 
 can play with other players to show how good you are. To be honest, you should buy this immediatly. 
 To top it off, a voice in the night will say "Get Super Smash Bros. Brawl... you must have it!!" 
 until you actually buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahahaG
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl has been anxiously awaited for quite some time now, and damn was it worth 
 it. This newer installment in the Super Smash Bros. series has 35 characters, 24 of which are already 
 there, and a ton of new stages and some familiar ones. The single player and Co-op stories are 
 wonderful, and very improved. You play through a somewhat lengthy story, which consists of clips 
 and the main story. Outside of that, event matches return and are quite fun to still do, as well 
 as the stadium and events. All your favorites like the home run derby return here. Then, there 
 is what smash bros. is all about, the multi-player. It is the key feature of the game, and is outstanding. 
 Being able to play with newer options, and with some of the same, the multi-player experience is 
 awesome. There are the same weapons, and a lot of new 1's that are in there. You also now have 
 items you can collect to get a good move out, like the dart crystals and the shot you get with 
 it, and also outside of that you can get a final smash, which is like a finishing move, which can 
 change the outcome of a match all by itself. Also, with an online multi-player, which is pretty 
 much lag free, and different modes of multi-player like the tournament, this is a great game, and 
 one of the best to hit the Wii thus far. So get ready to for the pwnage to begin, and pick up this 
 game, because it's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toytoper
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Smash Bros. has always been one of the most accessible fighting games on the market because of 
 the simplicity of its controls, and Brawl is no different. There are essentially only two attack 
 buttons (one for normal attacks and one for special moves) , and depending on which way you tilt 
 your control stick when you hit them, they can produce a variety of effects that include the titular 
 "smash" attacks. In the interests of user friendliness, Brawl offers four possible control schemes, 
 which ensures that everyone can play whichever way they like; Wii Remote and Nunchuck, Wii Remote 
 alone, Classic Controller, and GameCube Controller are all equally represented. Each of these methods 
 are equally viable, and fans of Brawl's predecessor will be happy to know that the GameCube controls 
 remain unchanged. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bitnick
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  just awsome.. this game has a lot more people like 10 more people then in melee. They are all pretty 
 much even in terms of skills for the characters. Great songs and a good story play enough said. 
 Really people who don't like this game are probly xbox fans or ps3 fans. Smash is original. Unlike 
 other games like Halo. Halo is just another shooter game just different weapons. ps3? no games 
 no whatso ever useless. I mean smash beats both things here and all you halo fans halo isnt that 
 great just another shooter Halo 2's online play was better then 3 anyways. and ps3 people go take 
 a hike cuz smash is what most people bought this game for. You won't find any other good games 
 out there then this game. And i'm a 360 fan too and i liked Halo 3 till i found out that its just 
 another shooter type game thats boring. Wii fans unite while smash bros brawl must be the game 
 of the year. Halo fans i do not know what to say about your game  _  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  I love Super Smash Bros Brawl its the best Wii fighting game out and it will remain that way til 
 they release another title! I was so excited for this game and after all the long delays its in 
 the USA! The graphics are awsome and well worth the money, the music and sound has really upgraded 
 and it makes you wanna go back and listen to it again, the cutscenes are awsome they are cool and 
 sometimes funny, The characters are plain pwnage and come with their own unique final smash ability. 
 The stages are amazing and have made it a long ways. The singleplayer mode is fun and worth the 
 playing time, The normal brawl is fun and the items are cool as well. The online play is a little 
 laggy, but only people who cry after losing a match due to lag has problems and is a noob! The 
 game was well worth the wait and the money and we are all excited that brawl has made it to our 
 shores to stay it gets a10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoreoVII
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  OVERALL (offline) :
  This game is amazing with more mini games then ever. More importantly the character's are far more 
 balanced this time around with less clones. The menu's where done nicly and get you right in the 
 brawl and the music get's me pumped for the first time in a SSB game. The story mode has touching 
 moments with the character's and keep's my interest the whole way through believe it or not. The 
 sidescrolling parts really are not that bad and I felt that their was meaning to what I was doing. 
 (such as using fox's abilities to help diddy kong save donkey kong's butt) . 
  
  I think everyone will be pleased with the 1 min cut scene's scattered everywhere throughout the 
 main story. (one of the first games that atcually made me laugh)
  
  THE REST (Online) : I have to say i am dissappointed by the online play and it takes alot of BS 
 in a game to dissappoint me. Ive been playing SSB for years pwning noobs left and right and to 
 lose to a amatuer because of lag in a 2 min match is just boring. Even playing online with my friend 
 down the road was lag central. (we have top-notch routers) .
  
  SOLUTION: Just invite your friends over the old fashioned way and pwn them then. I hope everyone 
 is enjoying this game as much as I am.
  
  REASON FOR MY SCORE: Would of been an easy 9.5 but the online play made me so upset i had to drop 
 it. Happy Brawling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Efferri
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Amazing game. The amount of time spent creating this game had to be unbelievable! Musical Scores 
 are superb, Gameplay is phenomenal, and graphics take the Wii to the next level. If you dont go 
 out and get this game, you are missing the true meaning of owning a Wii.
  
  So many options and different game modes, Theres something for everyone! So get out your old Gamecube 
 conches, or your wiimotes (With or without the nunchucks) ... or... your Classic Conches! It supports 
 them all!!! And Pwn up some newbs!
  
  Amazing game. The amount of time spent creating this game had to be unbelievable! Musical Scores 
 are superb, Gameplay is phenomenal, and graphics take the Wii to the next level. If you dont go 
 out and get this game, you are missing the true meaning of owning a Wii.
  
  So many options and different game modes, Theres something for everyone! So get out your old Gamecube 
 conches, or your wiimotes (With or without the nunchucks) ... or... your Classic Conches! It supports 
 them all!!! And Pwn up some newbs! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Okamiblader
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  When I heard about this game coming out (back in 2007, wink, wink) I was about to go to the nuthouse. 
 They finally had my favorite character of all time, Wario (and do not ask me why I do, please) , 
 and the graphics looked incredible. Then when it was moved back, twice, I saw other characters 
 I thought would of never made it such as Wind Waker Link or ROB the robot, and it started, for 
 a strange reason, to look better and better. Finally, it is out and it has blown my perseption 
 of smash out of the water. It is more crazy then I ever thought possible, the graphics and the 
 single player mode has gotten a complete overhaul, it is just insane! I got it only a few days 
 ago, and I cannot put it down. Unfornately, some things change for the worst. I finally got a hold 
 of using the wavedash from Melee, but it is not in brawl (trust me I tried) and some of the other 
 "glitches" have also disappeared. Sorry to all those spammers out there (yes I am talking to you 
 SheikSSBB and SmashMac) and all the others who kept using that, pardon my french, damn move to 
 go all out crazy on us newbies. Finally for us not so good smasher, we might just get a chance. 
 A very slim chance, but a chance nonetheless. It also has wireless, yeah baby yeah (especially 
 since I can later fight against the greatest smashers without even leaving my room) . Sorry, but 
 I need to get back to smashing, bye bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariogalaxyfan
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  Super smash bros its a fighting game ,everybody nows, but this is THE BETTER FIGHTING GAME EVER 
 MADE!!!!!!
  Graphics are the better on wii without galaxy, The songs make you cry, And the fun never ends, when 
 you finish the game 100% you will want to play more and more and more... This game will steal all 
 your time.
  Brawl is the perfect game for play with friends, all the modes can be played with a friend. And the 
 Subspace emissary is very better then the adventure mode in melee, you will loose 6 hours with it.
 
  You can take your photos during the fights, you can create your own stage,
  you can collect stickers and trophies and a lot more. The more cool new thing is the final smashes 
 they are very cool.
  There are in total 35 characters, a lot of itens ,a lot of stages and a lot of modes to play, in 
 the special brawl you can make a metal brawl a giant brawl, a giant metal stamina brawl, a invisible 
 giant stamina curry brawl and a lot more.
  The target smash now only have 5 maps but they are very fun, and fast on coop mode. You have four 
 modes to play, Gamecube controller, Classic controler, Wii remote sideways and the nunchuck (with the 
 Wii remote) , My favourite is the Wii remote sideways.
  You have the classic mode, home-run contest, multi-man brawl, tournament to play with friends, rotation, online, coin 
 launcher, masterpieces and a lot more. 
  Like Sakurai says:
  We work very hard on this one!!!
  Yes, they work... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokinwiid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  I have ben 'smashing' for 7 or 8 years now. I sometimes 'Smash' by myself, but i really like doing 
 it when i have other friends, who are cool with it- over to my place. On line 'smashing' has made 
 my life complete. I never need to make another friend in real life again. Also, I found going out 
 to buy Nintendo's USB Converter To LAN cable is a must for any real on line gamer. Wi-Fi is nice 
 to check the weather, but in any online play, hard wire is choice. Smash Brothers Will rule. I 
 love that there are no "headsets" for communication during game play. I don't need to hear the 
 12 year old in Indiana, who is kicking my ass' voice. This addition to Wii's already stunning line 
 of games for young and old just brings a smile to my face. The graphics compete nicely with other 
 systems. It's a wonderful game. Boo-Yah! I love you Nintedo. Welcome Back. I've missed you so much. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  The Good: Classic smashing returns in it's best form yet, lots of new characters as well as old 
 favorites with some new tricks, the best visuals ever seen on the Wii, Subspace Emissary co-op 
 story is a very welcome addition, online play, custom maps offline, 4 different control schemes, 
 so there's something that will suit you.
  
  The Bad: No motion sensitive features for the Wiimote + Nunchuk control scheme, can't use custom 
 maps online.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Those who have read my reviews and my blogs have known that I am pretty much a Nintendo hater. 
 I say pretty much, because I do really like most of their games, but not their systems. Still, 
 I own a Wii and DS, but the Wii really hasn't impressed me as much as it was hyped to be. I eagerly 
 awaited a game that would restore my faith in Nintendo as a game maker, and that will help justify 
 my purchase of the Wii, so that it would do more than collect dust after a maybe once a quarter 
 Wii Sports match. That game has finally arrived. 
  
  Super Smash Bros. has since the N64 days been a big favorite Nintendo series, because it is the 
 only game of it's kind where gamers can play with characters from different Nintendo series, and 
 beat each other up for fun and amusement. The last game in this series came out way back in 2001 
 as a launch title for the GameCube, and it remained one of the most played games for that system 
 until the GameCube's eventual death in 2006, when the Wii hit the streets. Gamers have been awaiting 
 Super Smash Bros. Brawl, the third game in the series for quite some time now, and after many delays, 
 it has finally arrived and is everything and more than you could want from it.
  
  First off, for those of you who haven't played Smash Bros, it is basically a platforming fighting 
 game where you use various Nintendo characters to beat up others, and use interactive stages and 
 items to spice up a fight. Brawl brings back almost everything from Melee and adds plenty of new 
 features and modes to give the series new life on a new console. The single biggest addition is 
 Online play. Gamers have dreamed of being able to duke it out online, and now you can over Nintendo's 
 Wi-Fi connection. 
  
  Gone is Melee's Adventure Mode in favor of a new story mode entitled Subspace Emissary, which is 
 a supposively 8 hour game filled with unique levels and fights. You are given control of a selected 
 Brawler and must battle your way through hoards of enemies to get to the next. It is also the easiest 
 way to unlock all of the hidden characters. This can be played by yourself or coopratively with 
 a friend offline.
  
  Speaking of characters, there are 35 of them in Brawl. Many old favorites, such as Mario, Link 
 and Kirby are back, but there are a bunch of newcomers from within Nintendo's series as well as 
 a couple of characters from outside publishers. Among the newcomers are Pit from Kid Iccarus and 
 the Pokemon Trainer. The two most interesting newcomers are Solid Snake from Konami's Metal Gear 
 Solid series and Sonic the Hedgehog from Sega. Both of these fighters fit very nicely into Brawl's 
 crazy combat, and have plenty of tricks up their sleeves. 
  
  For the most part, the gameplay is just like you'd remember it from Melee, but it does feel a bit 
 more simplified and smoother for the Wii. What makes things different are the controls. Luckily, 
 there are four different control schemes that can be used for Brawl. The Wiimote and Nunchuk are 
 the standard option, but you can also use just a Wiimote turned on it's side, a Classic Controller 
 and a GameCube controller. Each of these options are good choices, so pick which ever option feels 
 right for you. One of the biggest new gameplay additions are the Super Smashes. A glowing Smash 
 Bros logo will appear on screen during matches. Break that, and your character will glow. To activate, 
 press the B button (on the Wiimote + Nunchuk scheme) and you will use a super special to devistate 
 your opponents. These add even more excitement to the game, and can be really cool to watch. Some 
 of these moves include Solid Snake hopping onto a helecopter and shooting opponents with a rocket 
 launcher and Gannondwarf turning into a nasty beast and sending opponents flying. Levels can also 
 be destroyed during a brawl, which is new to the series as well.
  
  Borrowing a page from Halo 3, Super Smash Bros. Brawl also features a Forge like level editor and 
 saved replays of matches. Dispite the fact that these ideas were ripped off, they work really well 
 and add even more depth to an already outragously deep game. 
  
  The graphics, sound and music are some of the best, if not the best, the Wii has to offer. Visuals 
 especially during cutscenes are quite impressive. Also, the special moves can look quite flashy.
 
  
  I do have a couple very minor gripes with this game, but neither of these are that big of a deal. 
 First, there are no motion sensitive features when using the Wiimote and Nunchuk control scheme. 
 I guess this was because all of the various control schemes needed to play the same, and once you 
 get use to it, it's not a bad thing. Still, it would have been cool to swing the Wiimote to fight. 
 The second is that custom maps are not able to be used online. Now granted, Nintendo is just getting 
 use to the whole online thing, but still, it would have been nice to be able to host matches using 
 custom maps. None the less, the lack of either of these features really isn't a big deal and should 
 not tarnish the reputation of this magnificent game.
  
  Now I know right off that because this game got a 10 instead of a 9.5, a lot of you will discredit 
 it. Let me state first that yes, I do tend to give games slack, but this game is one of the few 
 that is so close to being perfect, that it should be recognised as such. This is a marvelous game 
 that needs to be owned by all Wii owners, and non Wii owners should rest assured that once you 
 actually find a Wii, you will have a game to play that makes all of the blood, sweat and tears 
 you lost to find one worth while.
  
  Overall, Super Smash Bros. Brawl is amazing in every way, If you don't own this game yet, go buy 
 it and savor the awesomeness.
  
  Gameplay: Classic smashing returns with lots of new characters, new modes and the best fighting 
 ever in the series.
  
  Graphics: Shockingly really quite good by all standards.
  
  Sound: Great music and sound effects.
  
  Value: This is one of the deepest games you can find 
 on any console, and it's really easy to pick up and play, so it's worth every penny of that $50 
 you'll spend on it.
  
  Final Thoughts: "It's Showtime!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceman_1486
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  This installment in the series adds more characters and a better single player mode then in previous 
 titles. If you are used to the controls from melee then you will be able to hook up a gamecube 
 controller. If you feel adventurious then give the wiimote-nunchuk a try. The gameplay is quite 
 similar but with a few tweaks. The characters have new moves and when the smash ball appears everyone 
 goes nuts. First to break it open gets the ability to to a super smash move which will punish your 
 foes. The unlockable characters and new characters is numerable but the most awaited and most wanted 
 character appears. That character is Sonic. .Another notable new character is Solid Snake from 
 the Metal Gear games. Kirby fans rejoice King dedede and Meta Knight make their debut as well. 
 All the new characters make a good game great. This is a great game that everyone that owns a wii 
 needs to pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -shmelo-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  I hold the Super Smash Bros series very dear to my heart. One of my favourite series of all time, 
 and indeed one of the best. Brawl comes to us as this generations Smash fest, and just like Melee, 
 it is an improvement. Every aspect of the series has been improved, technically all around.
  
  The Wii is bittersweet in my opinion, but Brawl holds true to the gamers. By far, Brawl is 
 the best looking Smash and most fluent animations. Character designs are at their best, and different 
 skins look cooler (you can be Dark Link, which looks cooler than normal Link) .
  
  The music is so cool. Nice epic chanting pieces and over all really neat music alterations to all 
 the characters natural tunes. Sound effects are fantastic (as usual) with the appropriate sounds 
 for each character, such as Sonics signature jumping sound.
  
  As for the brawlin itself, best yet. Each characters fighting style feels unique. You'll want to 
 try everyone to find who suits you best for when you must pwn your friends, and then you'll want 
 to just play as everyone to just have fan. This Smash feels more frantic than previous iterations. 
 Its good and bad though, fights feel faster, and you can die easier as some levels have some rather 
 devious traps.
  
  Now, the Subspace Emissary is the new adventure mode. Upon first glance its a wonderful old school 
 action platformer. Then 4 hours in, your bored and only 40% done it. It gets boring and its bloated. 
 Its too long and crammed full of characters then are mixed with each other. No real story either, 
 they just start fighting. Its not bad by far, its old school and tons of fun. But once you've beaten 
 it, it feels like a chore. Most of the boss battles are tons of fun, but the final one is just 
 annoying (annoying isn't the same as tough, too bad game designers won't accept that) .
  
  When playing Brawl (assuming you've played previous iterations and other side scrolling romps) 
 it feels very nostalgic, old school, and not so new. Thats a good thing though, for the Wii this 
 is a breather form all the revolutionizing casual games that involve waging the remote left and 
 right. I prefer to use the GC controller myself.
  
  There are plenty of modes, characters, levels and trophies to keep you and your Wii busy. In fact, 
 if you own a Wii and don't own SSBB, then give your Wii to someone who will buy SSBB, because your 
 wasting a perfectly good Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jibrox360
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  Well i waited so long for this game and it was finally going to be out then they changed the date 
 and then we had to wait more longer i don't know why then changed it but yeah we had to wait more 
 then it was out. I wanted the game badly but my ''dad'' won't let me. but when i played it at my 
 friends house and it was awesome the game was awesome. 3d fighting and i like how they do there 
 soecial moves well yeah if you like mario and 3d fighting you should get this game quickly yeah! 
 I like how they brought up the new characters. this is an what should i say AWESOME i am telling 
 you that anyone who has wii or likes mario then by this game. the game is damn good i am telling 
 you ok get it! well yeah you people get this game and when you plaay it you will like it soo much 
 you would like play it more than any other wii game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trainheartlett
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  Very rarely do we see two amazing games released in such a short amount of time. First we got super 
 mario galaxy and now nintendo has delivered us Super Smash Bros. Brawl. If you love amazingly we 
 executed creative games, you will love SSMB. 
  
  The single player game will take most players anywhere from 10-13 hours to beat. I found that the 
 difficulty starts amping up after three hours of play time.
  
  Co-op single player is a lot of fun, but if you parnet isn't up to your ability, playing through 
 the entire single player game togeather will become extremely frustrating.
  
  The additional modes seem endless and trying to collect all of the stickers and trophies will take 
 at least a hundred hours of gameplay. It could take longer, I'm just not sure.
  
  The multiplayer is well done and the ability to save replays and screenshots totally rocks. Sharing 
 that kind of stuff with friends is priceless and will add tons of replayibility!!!
  
  Go buy SSMB now!!! I can't write any more becuase I have to go play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swamptick
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  This game just did not do it for me. Maybe it is because I am not a Nintendo fanboy. Maybe it is 
 because I am 31 and while jelly-bean shaped characters were fun when I was 13, they just seem to 
 have lost their luster over the years.
  Maybe it is because it is all just more of the same - jump, jump higher, jump a little bit more, 
 get knocked down, jump again, shoot - but this game got old quick.
  
  I am not really sure what I wanted in it. I suppose I wanted the graphics to be better (the Wii 
 just does not stack up against the PS3 or 360) . The gameplay is good but the whole thing just makes 
 me feel like I need to be playing with a 12 year old
  
  I know many friends who WANTED this game to be good and are giving Nintendo a pass on this one 
 but they just did not add enough new material. Sure some new characters are great but it is still 
 the same old thing.
  
  I know alot of fanboys out there are looking at this game with jaded glasses and like the game 
 just because they talked themselves into liking it before it evn came out or they even had a chance 
 to play it. I am not biased that way. I play a game and if I like it I like it.
  
  This game got WAY to old WAY to quick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseballboy6411
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 7:32 am PT
Review:  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The control is excellent I have to say, some of the characters control much better then they did 
 in Melee and the stages are awesome, we have the old Melee stages and many new ones which have 
 a lot of twists and turns. WarioWare being one of my favorite stages as well as Pictochat being 
 another favorite. The Adventure mode is also a huge improvement from Melee, it's long, has a plot, 
 has more to the gameplay, it a real enjoyable experience, actually it's more like a platforming 
 beat em up making it a different game in it's own right with the Smash engine and a very good one 
 at that. The plot in the Adventure mode while having no diologue is very good and also just a blast 
 to play. The Classic and vs. mode are where the fighting gameplay is, Smash veterans will be in 
 this mode and loving it right away. There is a tournament mode, a classic Vs. mode and the classic 
 Smash 1P game mode. The icing on the cake for this game is the Wi-Fi, finally we can play our battles 
 with our friends and random strangers around the world. Other then that, the characters are well 
 balanced, you can make your own stages, and so much more, I don't think I can fit it in here.
 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  In my opinion, one of the most graphicly beautiful games on the Wii, it's up there with Super Mario 
 Galaxy and a few others like Metroid Prime 3 and Sonic and the Secret Rings.
  
  SOUND:
  MUSIC:
  Incredible, the soundtrack on this game is just so outstanding, awesome remixes of classic 
 tunes as well as inserts of some classic tunes as well make this good not only as a game, but a 
 gamers jukebox in the sound test mode.
  
  EFFECTS:
  Classic, new, odd, in place, it all sounds good, but you need to play the game to understand what 
 I mean.
  
  VOICES:
  Some of the voices are a little iffy to me, Falco I don't like too much and others just get annoying 
 and sound wrong *coughGriffithSoniccough* but some come around as pretty good like Fox and also 
 Mario. So it's mixed here, but it doesn't cause any annoyance in the game play to me (except Sonic, 
 I will and forever hate Jason Griffith as his actor) so it's overlookable.
  
  OVERALL:
  The wait for this game was well worth it, it has so much crammed into it that it's insane and just 
 fun to play for years to come and should be loved by both causal and hardcore gamer fans. If you 
 a Wii, you need this game, if you love games, then you need both this game and a Wii, it's that 
 good to be worth the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smoothe006
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  This game has taken the previous Smash Brothers and elevated it to the utmost level. From brawling 
 all out with friends, to meeting new friends online this game covers everything one needs in a 
 game. I like everything about it so far... I haven't played that much, but I will indeed put some 
 time in. 
  
  The new characters take some time to get used to, especially if you're used to the older smash 
 characters, but they are all very good. I especially like King Dedede... he's a beast. I haven't 
 unlocked everything yet, but I definitely will. The spectator mode online is fun, and I like the 
 fact that you can actually use coins you've obtained to "bet" on a winner. I've already hooked 
 up with some of my friends around the country and it took me back to my days in college sitting 
 around playing SSBM with all my boys. 
  
  If you don't have the game get it... you won't regret it. 
  
  The Wii system in its entirety 
 is a great thing, and with SSBB it makes it even better. 
  
  
  anyone up for a match online, hit me up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spaction3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 2:16 am PT
Review:  I have to admit I was a little skeptical on this game before the release. While I loved the original 
 Super Smash Bros. for the Nintendo 64, Melee on the Gamecube had some flaws I didn't like as well 
 as it's improvements, but this one says no to flaws and gives out pure greatness.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The control is excellent I have to say, some of the characters control much better 
 then they did in Melee and the stages are awesome, we have the old Melee stages and many new ones 
 which have a lot of twists and turns. WarioWare being one of my favorite stages as well as Pictochat 
 being another favorite. The Adventure mode is also a huge improvement from Melee, it's long, has 
 a plot, has more to the gameplay, it a real enjoyable experience, actually it's more like a platforming 
 beat em up making it a different game in it's own right with the Smash engine and a very good one 
 at that. The plot in the Adventure mode while having no diologue is very good and also just a blast 
 to play. The Classic and vs. mode are where the fighting gameplay is, Smash veterans will be in 
 this mode and loving it right away. There is a tournament mode, a classic Vs. mode and the classic 
 Smash 1P game mode. The icing on the cake for this game is the Wi-Fi, finally we can play our battles 
 with our friends and random strangers around the world. Other then that, the characters are well 
 balanced, you can make your own stages, and so much more, I don't think I can fit it in here.
 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  In my opinion, one of the most graphicly beautiful games on the Wii, it's up there with Super Mario 
 Galaxy and a few others like Metroid Prime 3 and Sonic and the Secret Rings.
  
  SOUND:
  MUSIC:
  Incredible, the soundtrack on this game is just so outstanding, awesome remixes of classic 
 tunes as well as inserts of some classic tunes as well make this good not only as a game, but a 
 gamers jukebox in the sound test mode.
  
  EFFECTS:
  Classic, new, odd, in place, it all sounds good, but you need to play the game to understand what 
 I mean.
  
  VOICES:
  Some of the voices are a little iffy to me, Falco I don't like too much and others just get annoying 
 and sound wrong *coughGriffithSoniccough* but some come around as pretty good like Fox and also 
 Mario. So it's mixed here, but it doesn't cause any annoyance in the game play to me (except Sonic 
 and at times I guess Peach) so it's overlookable.
  
  OVERALL:
  The wait for this game was well worth it, it has so much crammed into it that it's insane and just 
 fun to play for years to come and should be loved by both causal and hardcore gamer fans. If you 
 a Wii, you need this game, if you love games, then you need both this game and a Wii, it's that 
 good to be worth the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HairyBeast87
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo Wii owner's finally get their hands on Super Smash Bros. Brawl after numerous delays. 
 By the look of things around this site, it was worth the wait. With numerous modes found in the 
 single player and multiplayer sides of the game, there is no question that this game will keep 
 you busy for months, maybe years, on end. Also, the introduction of online play is a plus and will 
 sustain a long life cycle to those who have their Wii connected to the internet.
  
  The controls for this game are very simple to allow even the most novice players to be able to 
 enjoy the brawl. With 4 different control schemes, (Wii remote, Wii remote and nun-chuck, classic 
 controller and Gamecube controller) , there is bound to be the perfect way for that someone to play. 
 To many, it is suggested to dust off those Gamecube controllers because they seem to have a better 
 button layout than the others. That doesn't mean that the other controls are not worth playing 
 with as there is an option to customize the controller the way that is most comfortable.
  
  The single player portion of Brawl has some returning modes as well as some newer ones. These modes 
 are Events, Stadium, Training, Classic and the new Adventure Mode: The Subspace Emissary, which 
 is said to be an estimated 8 hours long. The classic mode is what veterans to the Smash Bros. franchise 
 will remember as going from stage to stage, beating up a certain character or characters and advancing 
 to the final boss. The new adventure mode is quite entertaining, even though the controls can be 
 a bit tedious in certain areas that include platforming on side scrolling or vertical scrolling 
 levels, it barely takes away from the experience.
  
  Surely, buying Brawl just for the single player is not recommended. The game really shines when 
 brawling with up to 3 of your friends, either online or in person, or 3 randoms over Nintendo Wi-Fi 
 Connection. With numerous modes and countless ways to customize them, it is easy to lose a whole 
 day from just beating up your friends. With over 30 characters to choose from, there is bound to 
 be that perfect brawler that awaits to be played.
  
  What else can be said about Super Smash Bros. Brawl? With numerous modes and over 30 characters 
 to play them with, it is easy to enjoy countless hours of this near perfect Smash Bros.. This game 
 is by far, the best Nintendo multiplayer experience on the Wii this year. For those who have a 
 Wii, get this game as soon as possible and for those who still need to find a Wii, don't worry 
 because this game is bound to still have people playing for many months or even, years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithers43
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  At first this game seemed exactly the same as melee and i was really mad and sad. All i did at 
 the beginning was play brawls and team battlew with my 2 friends and didnt even try the new stuff.
 
  
  i went to the midnight launch and was all exited and then after i played for a while i was annoyed. 
 Yea they had put final smashes in that are COMPLETELY awsome but where was all of the new stuff. At 
 that point i switched from a GC controller to a WII controller and that was where the new control 
 was. 
  
  I had assumed that it was going to be very hard to switch from the GC controller like melee to 
 the WII controler but after my second round with it i had gotten the hang of it. From there i went 
 to the name place and made my name, went to the control screen and guess what!?!??!!? you can make 
 your smash attacks respond at the FLICK OF THE WRIST i was like SWEET.
  
  I was still a little let down from the not new gameplay....... but then i did the special brawl 
 which was pretty awsome. you could make everyone small of large / have a bunny thing on there head 
 / start out with 300 damage / have fire breath / be metal and the list goes on and on 
  
  I then did the events wich are pretty good not anything revolutionary from the first game but good 
 all the same :)
  
  Then i tried online.... well at first i couldnt find anyone just randomly and i was like WTF i 
 though alot of people would be playing then i called a friend who got it at midnight and we played 
 using the friends thing. when you play with friends you can set words to come up with taunts change 
 all of the rules like stock or min to all the items being used etc.... that was great !! GUESS 
 WHAT I HAT LAGGING ONLINE PLAY WHEEEW good thing ssbb doesnt have that!!!!! for only about 1 sec 
 did the game ever slow down and then it got right back up which is good because 2 sec off could 
 meen death!!!!
  
  The next morning i played the supspace emerssiary............ IT WAS AMAZING that is all i am going 
 to be pplaying unless i play with someone else be cause there is a GOOD story line unlike melee 
 and you can unlock all of the characters except like 2 here and i have already unlocked them plaease 
 check this game out !!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAMKFan
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 2:24 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Brothers Melee was one of the most popular GameCube games and I can easily see this 
 becoming one the most popular Wii game, if it hasn't already. However, it all started on the Nintendo 
 64 with a game called Super Smash Brothers. It was a good and fun game. Then about two years later, 
 Super Smash Brothers Melee came out and it was awesome. And now here's this game which is even 
 better than SSBM! And I imagine it wouldn't be easy to improve upon a game like that, but they 
 did it.
  
  As with the two previous games, you get the standard Classic mode. You still fight a giant version 
 of a certain character or a metal version of a certain character. Master Hand is still the final 
 boss of that mode. However, this time, you fight in more stage and a metal character ain't the 
 sub-boss this time. These are some nice changes. There's a new mode called Subspace Emissary, which 
 replaces Adventure mode from SSBM. It's better than I expected too. It takes the platforming concept 
 from SSBM and greatly expands it. Now, it's basically a Platforming game with SSB twists, of course. 
 Sometimes, you come across bosses in that mode, which can be kind of a challenge, but not too hard. 
 Overall, that mode is fun and addictive! Every other mode from SSBM can be found in this game too, 
 which includes Home-run mode and Cruel Melee (Now called Cruel Brawl) and so on.
  
  This game has almost 40 characters to choose from, with about half of them being unlockable. But 
 that's not a problem, because this game is fun to play anyway. This is the first SSB game to include 
 third party characters, who are Snake and Sonic! Those characters are so popular, I don't even 
 need to mention what franchise they're from.
  
  Of course, there's the VS. mode. Everything in VS. mode from the last game is still here and everything. 
 There's now an online mode where you can play against players all around the World. Personally, 
 I don't have my Wii online yet. But when I finally do, I can see myself playing online a lot!
 
  
  The graphics are really great, despite being a bit cartoonish, but it is Nintendo after all. SSBM 
 was one of the best looking GameCube game. SSBB is now one of the best looking Wii game. This game 
 has a lot of detail to it.
  
  Overall, as a big fan of the SSB series, I was waiting for this game for a long time. It was well 
 worth the wait. This is easily one of the best games I've ever played or maybe even the best. I'm 
 not quite sure on that yet though. This game is easy to recommend to anyone who owns a Wii, especially 
 for Nintendo fans. Even if you don't want to spend $50 to buy this game, at least rent it. I give 
 this game a 10/10. I rarely give out 10s too and I feel that this game deserves it. Even if the 
 old review system was around, I would have still given it a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan-127
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2008 9:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably the best Nintendo Wii game this Year by far. Great for get-togethers, parties, 
 or just play online with your friends. Online Multiplayer is Increadibly Fun. Story mode is quite 
 impressive and Long. The only thing this game needed was Voice Dialogue. Just throwing it out there. 
 The New Maps in the game are so fun and more interactive that EVER! Great Story Line on the Adventure 
 mode. New Combos are super fun and bring a whole new meaning to "did you see that!?!?" The graphics 
 for this game have definetely improved. New cahracters make this game awesome and brings more combinations 
 of dualing. Overall, this game rocks my socks and if you own a Wii.. get in your car, Head to your 
 nearest Video Game Retailer, and .. BUY  THIS  GAME! You WON'T Regret it. You're in for the RIDE 
 of Your LIFE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cap_z
Rating: 9
Date: May 5, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  THIS game is great it is the first smash game i own i never own the first two but i did play them. 
 the game is fun it's a lot to do here the story mode is like a fun game u play at the arcade but 
 IT THE ONLY THING IS THAT IT'S 8 HRS LONG which is not a bad thing. there is a good balance of 
 players (SONIC) and they all have ultmate moves finally. plus it's online there are a few things 
 that i don't like in the game but that's why brawl is so beautiful. it's either a good reason for 
 the game not having a certain thing in it or something else in the game makes up for it. LIKE TOURNEY 
 MODE WAS TAYLOR MADE FOR ONLINE GAMING. but no online mode for it not very good. even after it 
 was said that tourney was still in the working stages. then custom stage builder can't be played 
 online. WHAT!? but i guess it's okay i mean how lame it would be for somebody to create a stage 
 that's so hard to play on. PLUS THE OHTER 40 stages with way more detail is just fine. the soundtrack 
 is awesome i was listening to so some of the songs before the game came out. THERE HAS A LOT OF 
 LAG IN MY ONLINE matches, . i guess it just need some breaking in. GRAPHICS ARE BEAUTIFUL . BETTER 
 THEN MELEE'S and it so much to do u can't decided sometime what to do first. online is not the 
 core of the game to me and that's not because of no rank or leaderboards I WISH KINDA (even though 
 seeing ur oppenents name wouldn't to much to ask for) it's because there so much to do single player 
 alone can keep u satisfied but online is where it's at. FOX, WOLF, AND FALCO are i tid bit similar 
 but so what. it not a problem when u use RYU, AKUMA, AND KEN IN STREET FIGHTER. anyway it looks great 
 it plays good a lot to do THIS game will keep u busy for a long time...........
  
  until ( MARIO KART WII COMES OUT) holla!!!!
  still think marvel vs capcom 2 is the greatest fighting 
 game ever the controls are better to grasp then brawl's there times where this game gets on my 
 nerves but spectator mode is SO FUNNY I BE CRAKING UP LAUGHING AS PEOPLE GET BLASTED OFF THE SCREEN 
 HAHAHA GOOD TIMES GOOD TIMES. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supafly43218
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Similar to what we all saw on the gamecube with melee. Graphics are about the same, with 
 improved textures, backgrounds, and effects like the lightning moves from pikachu.
  
  Control: With a variety of controls to choose from, you can't go wrong. I thought I was making 
 a mistake when i picked up the wiimote and nunchuck to play instead of the old gamecube controller, 
 but it plays EQUALLY as well.
  
  Sound: More of the same, WHICH IS NOT A BAD THING!
  
  Online: Unfortunately, online play is completely down indefinitely. With pushing back the damn 
 release date so many times, you think they would have saw this one coming.... Nice one nintendo, 
 id like my free virtual console game now.
  
  Characters: Amazing, simply amazing. Metaknight, Ike, Pit, etc... Old and new, they all rock my 
 socks off.
  
  THE GAME ITSELF: Huge amount of options from every angle, single player AND multiplayer.
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sithisil
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  I can say that I've been a fan of the series, having owned every one of these games that has come 
 out. Overall, I can say that this game is a radical improvement over the first and second, which 
 did not have nearly the same amount of customization and useful options (Such as in-game snapshots 
 and level editor) that make it a very enjoyable game.
  
  Really, it's a fighting game that's unlike any other - you don't beat on each other until one dies 
 from a health bar reaching zero; you beat them until they go flying off the screen in any given 
 direction. It has a simplicity to it as well, only using two attack buttons, movement, and a guard 
 button.
  
  Now, I'd like to say now that it isn't without faults. The single player, though it has had drastic 
 improvements, has a few things that make me want to slap the producers. Namely, the inability to 
 switch between characters in missions (save by suicide) and the sometimes frustrating platforming 
 levels. The platforming itself isn't that bad or tedious; it's the fact that if you miss a jump 
 you can reappear with your new character hovering over a cliff and lose two lives for the price 
 of one. That aside, the single player's silent storyline is certainly a change from "Beat stages 
 until you meet up with Master Hand".
  
  Naturally, now is when I move onto multiplayer. Brawling with your friends on the same machine 
 is as fun as ever. However, for those of us who don't have a T1 internet connection hooked directly 
 into our Wiis, brawling "with anyone" online can be rather laggy and you're limited to a standard 
 2-minute brawl. Brawling with friends can still be a good experience online, however, if all combatants 
 happen to be near; in other words, get your friends to pick up a copy and fight them. It'll be 
 much easier.
  
  Finally, the difficulty - Versatile modes from easy to intense cater to a wide variety of skill 
 levels. For those of you who like to explore, there's plenty of secrets hidden in the levels, so 
 finding that last hidden room might add in some fun. Those who suck at finding secrets, well... sorry. 
 You might not do so great without a guide.
  
  Overall, this game is a solid addition to the series. Though I didn't mention everything (mini-games, 
 which are few) , I believe I've covered the main parts of the game enough to help you make a decision; 
 not that I believe many will choose not to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingdomcool5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  i picked this game up firs day it came out around noon got home and played it till nine at night 
 it was incredible i just wanted to get everything there and then so i could pown everyone online 
 its an amazing game but i had to take of point five beacause of the plainess of the title screens 
 and not enoph detail in some maps so overal 9.5 but for other stuff
  
  fun factor: 10
  graphics: 9.6
  Sound/Music: 10
  content: 10
  longness: 10
  Plainess: 9
  overall: 9.5
 
  
  i hope you dont get the wrong idea from this revew this is the by far best in the seris and one 
 of my favorite games GO Nintendo anyways im glad you read my reivew and get super smash bros brawl 
 as soon as possible but theres nothing like the original if you have played that even thought this 
 is better in every way possible. thanks for reading 
  P. S im sory this review isnot that good its a practice and i wasent to shure wat to say but it 
 is all true about the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SPAWNandVENOM_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  An impressive lineup of stages and characters, including some from third parties. Amazing soundtrack. 
 Gorgeous cut-scenes. Simple menus. Long front-load and lacking online options. Looks like an enhanced 
 version of Melee. Improved character models and backgrounds. Everything runs in 480p, 16:9 and 
 at 60 frames. Even so, the graphics definitely lack detail in areas. One of the best soundtracks 
 ever created. Sound effects, meanwhile, are perfectly punchy and well-suited to the characters 
 and environments. Tight control, more balanced character move sets, new final smashes and more. 
 We're not particularly fond of the single-player mode, but multiplayer is so good we just don't 
 care. Destined to be played for years thanks to spectacular offline and online multiplayer modes. 
 One of the great four-player games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MonkishGamer
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  It's been over 6 years since the last installment of the colossal series that is Super Smash Bros., 
 and now we finally have the newest edition, Super Smash Bros. Brawl. The game has practically taken 
 every great element from the previous two installments, improved in its flaws, and added even more 
 superb elements in order to make this the best installment in the franchise. For those of you who 
 don't know, Super Smash Bros. is a Nintendo four-player fighter in which four players can get together, 
 pick a Nintendo Mascot and Stage at their choice, and duke it out. Of course, there is so so so 
 so so so so so much more than that. In response to claims that the series didn't have a solid single 
 player or story, they added a new mode, an adventure called The Subspace Emissary. The Adventure 
 Mode if you will shows the brave story of several Nintendo Characters, almost all in the game, 
 battling a mysterious evil force. You can unlock almost all of them through this mode or you can 
 do it the more consistent way, by Brawling, which is this game's main focus. The game includes 
 a variety of both old and new stages to choose from, all at your disposal for you and your friends 
 to use. All of the new characters, although few are clones of each other, are greatly balanced 
 and feel well-designed, and the new stages are also great fun to be had. New characters like Solid 
 Snake, Sonic the Hedgehog, Captain Olimar, Diddy Kong, and more have been added alongside new stages 
 like Luigi's Mansion, my new favorite Bridge of Eldin, Delfino Plaza, and so much more. This would 
 usually be the part where most games end, you can quit reading this review, and go on, but no, 
 the game has so much more that only lengthens its replay value by miles. The game has improved 
 old favorites like Target Smash, Multi-Man Brawl, Event Matches with different challenges and difficulties, 
 and Homerun Stadium, while adding newer features like the Stage Editor, Multiple ways to earn new 
 trophies and stickers for your collection, and a new add-on I particularly love, a feature that 
 allows you to take snapshots at any time during gameplay or to save the entire match onto an SD 
 card or your Wii's abundant internal memory. The game brings in a new fighting item, along with 
 the bundle of dozens of other great items, called the final smash, this unleashes a devastating 
 attack that can range from a sword slash to a konga beat, always fierce, and always funny to someone. 
 They're all balanced and no character's feels less significant. The game is just a bottomless pit 
 of replay. You will spend hours just playing matches with your friends, modifying the rules with 
 versions like Special Brawl, playing co-op with a friend on the Subspace Emissary, and then wanting 
 to go Brawl some more. For those who have certain preferences with their controls, Brawl has you 
 covered. The game offers 4 different ways to play, including Gamecube Controller, Wiimote, Wiimote 
 w/Nunchuk, or the newer virtual console controller. The Gamecube controller will probably be a 
 better choice for veterans, but the Wiimote sideways worked well for me. If you don't like a certain 
 control scheme works, you can customize every button and test it out. The game's graphics are a 
 ladder-up from Melee, and the treasure-trove of great compositions from past Nintendo classics 
 like Legend of Zelda and Mario Bros., the game even allows you to decide how often a certain song 
 appears. The interface is smoother and cleaner than Melee's, just giving a smooth feel to your 
 selection. The game adds a plethora of new trophies and even stickers for you to collect throughout 
 the game, and if you're a big fan like me, you'll strive to collect every last one and yell at 
 your friends to collect them during fights. After waiting for 6 years, this game is definitely 
 worth the wait. The developers are literally trying their hardest to create a wonderfully enjoyable 
 gaming experience, and they have oh-so succeeded. It goes without saying you should own this game 
 if you have a Wii, it is more than your money's worth, and your friends when you let them play 
 will thank you for it. I can't say enough good things about this game, do yourself a favor and 
 pick up a copy, you'll thank me later.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Revontulet09
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  The hype for Brawl has been building up for some time. And not without reason, either: it's predecessor, 
 Melee, has easily become one of the greatest games ever created. 
  
  For those who know the game of Super Smash Brothers, it was already predicted that Brawl would 
 be a great game. Theres no need for me to extensively praise the amazing cinematic cut-scenes; 
 the flashy visuals and plethora of new faces; and the powerful, engaging, and literally infinitely 
 customizable gameplay. GAMESPOT's review covered that in great detail, and trust me, you won't 
 be disappointed. 
  
  But for Veteran smashers like myself, there was a main concern that stood out in the mind: 
  
  Would the completely perfect game mechanics of Melee be altered? 
   If yes, would Brawl be accepted by the gigantic Smash community which is so rooted in Melee, that 
 a change would completely upset everything that we know about Super Smash Brothers?
  
  Well, theres no simple answer. Yes, Brawl has been altered. The physics are different... not bad, 
 but different. However, it is a hurdle that can (and will) be crossed by the whole Smash community. 
 
  
  In lay man's terms, the game has been improved and greatly de-glitched... however, for those who 
 played Pro Smash Bros. for a long time, this is a double-edged blade. For example, Wavedashing 
 (a NECESSARY skill for any Pro Smasher) , is no longer possible. This alone takes away thousands 
 of combos, techniques, and in-battle possibilities. 
  
  What has happened to Brawl is that the game's intelligence has been refined. In Melee, 90% of commands 
 on the controller took an immediate effect on the screen, whether they "physically" made much sense, 
 or not. Say dashing back and forth rapidly (the term evades me... some Pro I am) . In Melee, for 
 a fast character like fox, one could smash the control stick left and right and have a quick left-right 
 dashing motion on screen take place, as soon as it is keyed on the controller. However, in Brawl, 
 the game is aware that a character should not be able to immediately dash to the right within a 
 fraction of a second of dashing to the left. Thus, many tactics have been removed. 
  
  Some even say that the game has 'slowed down' in Brawl. This is partially true. Even many characters 
 (in main example, I use Fox again) have slightly slower movements and more floaty jumps, instead 
 of the naturally quick falls that are evident in Melee. 
  
  However, this is not all bad news. No, in fact, the more time I spend with Brawl, the more I realize 
 that this IS the time to throw those Melee game discs away. Brawl has improved over Melee, and 
 by a huge margin, too.
  
  Remember all those glitched controls in Melee? The things one wanted to do, but could only do half 
 the time, because a particular technique was just too unresponsive or too difficult to execute? 
 No longer a problem. Brawl really is smart; and even with the removal of Wavedashing and the like, 
 there are so many things that just make more sense now. A wall jump is executed just when it's 
 needed, recovery moves now actually allow one to grab the edge when one aims at it, and it is no 
 longer a pain to the fingers to pull off a short hop. 
  
  This does not mean that Brawl is easy and dumbed-down, no, absolutely not. Skilled players will 
 still have the advantage. Thankfully, the actions that are easier to use are the ones that required 
 not skill, but luck, in Melee. It takes the frustration out of the game, not the challenge. So 
 yes, n00bs still get PWNed. 
  
  In conclusion, while it still may take a while to adjust to the the physics of Brawl, it is ultimately 
 a happier and more satisfying experience. While everyone will adapt at different times, the physics 
 are not illogical or difficult to understand. Soon, anyone who plays Melee on their Wii will be 
 laughed at, for Brawl is a worthy sequel. It has more of what we love, and less of what we don't. 
 More content, more playability, more characters, more options, and endless new possibilities. Thats 
 the way Super Smash Brothers should be... and now, thats the way it is. 
  
  
  (IGN style rating)
  9.5 for Presentation
  10 for Gameplay
  9.5 for Graphics
  10 for Sound
 
  10 for Lasting Appeal (deserves more)
  Average: 9.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deltaman3
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  I just got the game yesterday and never noticed I was playing for 5 hours straight when I went 
 to get a drink of water. The game made a perfect sequel and also, what lots of people are worrying 
 about, is, yes, the gamecube controllers have the same controls as melee. I must say it is a brilliant 
 game, but one little fault that almost no one would probably notice, was if you put a CPU on the 
 lowest difficulty, and they are fox, when they get the final smash thing, they get into their landmaster 
 and drive off a cliff, which, I say, is very amusing to watch. Other than that, a solid 10. Oh, 
 before I go, for the people who have not played the orginal super smash bros melee, you may want 
 to buy that and some gamcube controllers, because it is a great way to get prepared for the beating 
 of a lifetime you are about to recieve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick_The_Cage
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Apart from all the things already said by many of the reviewers out, this game just rocks, as a 
 famous footwear brand says; just do it. As if all teh new characters were not enough Nintendo threw 
 in some pretty nice surprises, Master Pieces being one of them. In the master piece part of the 
 game it will lwt you try out a few of the games available from Nintendo via the shop, although 
 the master piece add-on is quite a good feature, it's still miles away from Microsoft's arcade 
 as in master piece you can only play a few seconds or minutes.
  
  As the gamespot review said the WFC (Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection) is good not a single lag in al 
 the games I've play, about 15, nevertheless there is one issue, as more and more people bought 
 the game the WFC servers were getting more work than they can handle, this is an issue Nintendo 
 has commented on, and is currently working on it. the thing is it's getting really hard to find 
 on-line matches with getting a message that says "you ave been disconnected...", I hope Nintendo 
 gets more severs up and running. The same way Bungie did when Halo 3 came out.
  
  Apart form that minor issue the game is perfect whether you are playing alone; Classic and The 
 subspace Emissary are bound to keep playing for hours until you unlock every single player, stage, 
 song, trophy... you know what I mean there are tons of stuff to unlock. 
  On the other hand multiplayer mode, I think this is where the game really shines the most, what 
 beats a couple opf your best friends playing an chaotic, fast-paced, mind blowing brawl if you 
 ask me nothing, but that is up to you to judge. I've never had so much fun beating up Pikachu since 
 Pokemon yellow came out, seriously. All your friends will begging to play over and over again. 
 Although WFC has some issues when you brawl using friend codes no problem at all, not a single 
 frame rate loss, and no lag, take that Halo 3 (no hard feelings towards Halo 3, but it's annoying 
 when you are playing lone wolves and all of a sudden bam! serious lag) .
  
  to conclude Nintendo went over the top with this game, but I must warn you if you have played previous 
 versions of smash, brawl may seem as a do over; Wrong!, the game is so good an addictive that i'm 
 playing as i write this review, and if your a n00b or first timer, be prepared to get hooked on 
 one of the best selling franchises of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best wii game out and will be the last good game the wii will get. The online 
 is the only thing I have to complain about because it is very laggy and it is hard to find matches. 
 Every other thing in this game is absolutly perfect. I love this game alot but I feel it could 
 be even bigger. Characters are very cool, some of the best character development I have ever seen. 
 The story is the coolest story nintendo has ever done because it mixs all of their storys togather. 
 I love this game because it is great for partys and when you have a friend come over. The gamecube 
 controler actuly is the best way to play it. This game isn't perfect but it is a great game that 
 I give a 9.5. All wii owners should buy this game just because it is the hottest game on the market 
 that the wii willl ever get. It stinks we are gonna have to wait another 7 years but I expect a 
 bright future for this game franchise. I just want to see what they can do next. The wii is a decent 
 console at most but this game makes it flawless. I think you all should give this game a try because 
 it is so perfect in many ways but not as a whole. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Love_ya24
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  On March 9th, 2008. wii owners and non wii owners finally got what they were waiting for for a 
 long time..... Super Smash Bros. Brawl. Super Smash Bros. Brawl is a fighting game, but it comes 
 with a twist. it's with nintendo characters like mario and peach and some non nintendo characters 
 like snake and pit. This game comes with a large selection of characters to play with. It's the 
 biggest one yet. The controls for the game are great. The graphics are much better the the first 
 and melee. the stages they give you to battle were some that i always wanted to have. that's the 
 good part of it.
  
  The only bad thing is that they took some of the characters out from melee. i like dr. mario! that's 
 really the only bad thing about it!
  
  Overall: this is a great game that will be one of the top games of the year. not just on gamespot, 
 but on many people's list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowkid229
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  I told a friend of mine last year that when Smash Bros comes out for Wii. It would be an all out 
 war. he replied back sayingYou sure cause Halo is gonna kill". On the launch of Halo 3, I seen 
 that there were many people that came and got the game and it was sold out in an hour, according 
 to the seller at my local EB Games. When Smash bros came out this Saturday, I was like this will 
 be awesome with my GC controller and I need to prove myself. When I got to the game store in the 
 mall. I found out that most of the games were sold out in lie 15 minutes and the shipment had troubles 
 cause it was being ordered online even more. Anyways I bought the game from WALMART, and I could 
 not believe that I am playing with the same styles I used to have with extra features. I am still 
 like on LV. 10 of subspace emissary and I got to say, I love to kick butt with my newborn skills 
 and some old styles. Though melee screens looked a little with high tech cool backgrounds, brawl 
 has a different presentation, but I could not care about the backgrounds. As long as I bought the 
 fight to others, I AM GAME  :) 
  
  As a final review. Do not dare regret buying this game cause I am out there searching for a fight. 
 And the battleground is online. Long story short buy it..................... please 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSWII60user
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Lets start off with whats wrong with the game, and that is... um nothing, well thats not 100% true 
 but, its close. the only thing so far that i can think of without sounding like a jerk is, it doesn't 
 do anything adventurous. But thats a good thing when you had a game like melee come before it. 
 
  For all the people who think this game does NOTHING new, then.... your not very smart.
  1. new characters (alot of them very fun and interesting.
  2. new maps (create your own and some 
 from melee)
  3. new fighting styles (to fit everyones likes) / some new moves 
  4. new mechanic (final smash... and all i can say for those is YES)
  5. new storyline (Subspace 
 Emissary, and classic mode)
  6. Online (so much fun)
  So if you don't think anything new was put into the game then theres a list for ya.
  
  What 
 they did keep was the amazing pace, and combat that made the franchise what it is today, which 
 is awesome. No this game doesn't give a completely new look on super smash bros, but honestly, 
 who wanted a completely new game to learn? When you could just pick brawl up and PWN your friends 
 like you did before. 
  
  I'm sorry to all of you who were looking forward to a brand new game, but don't complain because 
 all that was promised has been delivered.
  
  P. S: i know i didn't list all the new thing, but i just wanted a basic list so all the haters will 
 get the idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qelery07
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2008 11:17 pm PT
Review:  If you were like me when you first played Super Smash Bros Melee, it felt fresh. I played it for 
 hours straight the first week and didn't feel the slightest bit bored. It had so much new stuff 
 to do. On this game I was expecting more considering how long it was delayed. Some parts of the 
 game is new, but not that much. 
  
  *** (1- crap 5- mediocre 10-perfect) ***
  
  -Graphics and Design: 8
  
  
  
  -Game Play: 9
  
  The controls and very similar to Melee. 
 Each character has the same moves as before, except for their Final Smash. And you can play using 
 3 different controller types.
  
  
  -Sound/ Music: 8
  
  
  -Character choice: 9.5
  
  
  
  
  -Online Play: 9.5
  
  This part is really fun. You can team up with friends. 
 Or pown random people around the world. You never have to play against only computer-players again.
 
  
  
  
  
  -Stage design: 9
  
  The stages have a lot more moving parts. And who wouldn't like to create their own stage?
  
 
  
  
  
  ***Overall- 9 
  
  Some old, some new. An upgraded version or Melee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseballSGFkid
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  All of the characters are awsome and I love the new adventure mode. Creating stages is also a great 
 new feature. Online makes sure you dont have to play alone. Great to play with friends, at party, 
 and with your family. This is my favorite game and I think its the best game out. Eveyone should 
 get this instant classic you will never get bored. Rob who people hate I think is actually a great 
 character. Even though there are clones I think this game is absolutley perfect. My favorite characters 
 are pit, ike, marth, fox, snake, and sonic. I think you can use any character and have fun. It 
 is hard for me to choose a character. The graphics are unbeleavible for wii. The stages r unique 
 and fun. The story mode can take about 7 hours. I would recomend this game to everyone. You can 
 play it all the time. I will be playing this for years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bylsma
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is a fighting game where you can take your favorite Nintendo Characters 
 (and a few 3rd Party Characters) and put them in a stage to beat each other up. It is a great concept 
 that is always fun to play!
  
  --Graphics --
  
  Starting with the first Smash Bros. on the N64, Brawl has definitely updated the graphics. Every 
 character is perfectly detailed and really takes on their looks from their latest games. Whether 
 it be Link or Pikachu, every character looks great. The stages have also been improved. Most of 
 the stages are areas from certain video games, so some of them may look familiar. For example, 
 The Bridge of Eldin from Zelda: Twilight Princess is a stage in this game. You fight on the bridge, 
 and just like in the game, it breaks in the middle and then reappears via a portal. You can also 
 see Hyrule castle in the background. Overall, the graphics are basically perfect.
  
  10/10
  
  --Gameplay --
  
  The gameplay in Brawl is really good. The game is compatible with 
 four different controllers: The Wii-mote and Nunchuck, The Wii-mote (sideways) , The Wii Classic 
 Controller and the Gamecube Controller. Old fans of the series will have no problem getting use 
 to Brawl since the Gamecube Controller is compatible and new fans can find a new way to play with 
 the other choices. The controls for the game are hard to explain because every controller has different 
 controls. But, you are able to change them into whatever fits your needs. The game is simply to 
 knock your opponent off the stage until they run out of lives or the timer runs out. You can use 
 smash attacks, which are really strong hits, or you can use special attacks which are unique attacks 
 for every character. There is also a new addition to the game called "Final Smash". It is activated 
 when you retrieve an item called a "Smash Ball". Once retrieved the "Final Smash" can be used whenever, 
 however most characters have different Final Smashes. Some may be 1 hit kills while others will 
 put your opponents to sleep.
  
  10/10
  
  --Music --
  
  Super Smash Bros Brawl is FILLED with music from all of the in-game Characters' video games. There 
 is many familiar Mario tunes, Zelda songs or even those great Sonic songs. There is a huge inventory 
 of songs and you can even arrange for what songs play on what stage. Most of the music is very 
 good, while some of the songs are not meant for fighting. However, overall, the music is great.
 
  
  10/10
  
  --Story --
  
  Another new aspect to the game is the new adventure mode, "The Subspace Emissary". This is a side 
 scrolling adventure mode where every character has their own part in the story. It is a huge improvement 
 from it's predecessor's story mode. From what I can gather, the story involves strange robots going 
 around the world blowing places up with gigantic bombs. All the Brawl characters are affected by 
 this and they are all trying, in their own way, to stop it. You start off using a certain pair 
 of characters and in every level you switch pairs. However, in the end, all the characters meet 
 up with each other. The story is filled with beautiful cut scenes that, even with no dialogue, 
 makes you understand what is going on. Even though the story is roughly 8 hours long, it is not 
 the main interest of the game. The main gameplay of "The Subspace Emissary" kind of feels like 
 a futuristic Mario game, except with a lot more bad guys and it is more challenging. However, it 
 does get repetitive after a while and doesn't seem as fun.
  
  9/10
  
  --Overall --
  
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is a must! Any Wii owner should get it and any Nintendo owner should 
 play it. It will keep you entertained for hours on end and now with the new online mode, you can 
 play with anyone around the world. It is a fantastic game and it was a great way to end the series!
 
  
  9.75/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: slasher1_1
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is bar none the best multiplayer game I have ever seen. In addition to that it also boasts 
 an excellent single player campaign and a plethora of characters to unlock. The stages all have 
 their own little twist that make the game both fun and unpredictable. The online multiplayer has 
 also been done well, with almost no lag whatsoever. The stage builder is fun too, especially with 
 the ability to send your own creative stages out to someone else. However for those of you that 
 were in love with the previous ames, almost every single character, and all the best stages are 
 back with new music items and characters to boot. I don't see a single downside to this game. Overall 
 it is amazing and there isn't a person on the planet who won't too. If you don't have this game 
 get it. If you don't have a Wii, get one so you can get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devinbroncs123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Let's talk a lot, that's right, not a little, about action, excitement, adventure, and all around 
 FUN!!! Super Smash Bros. is the game that falls into all of these categories and it falls in well. 
 
  
  Quite possibly one of Nintendo's best games to have been put out on the Wii. Super Smash Bros. 
 follows it's predecessors and is the main reason I bought a Wii. I have games it up on the others 
 and have ALWAYS had fun doing so. As you may have noticed, Game Spot gave the game a 9.5/10. I 
 fully agree with their score. I would give the game a 10 but the graphics are nearly identical 
 to it's previous game (Super Smash Bros. Melee) on the Gamecube. 
  
  If you are looking for a fast-paced fighting game with a mix adventure with it's Sub Space Emisary 
 mode then this is the game for you. BUY IT IF YOU HAVE A WII!!!
  
  Have fun and I hope you enjoyed my review...
  
  
  Devin
  Wii # = I dunno, it's too hard 
 to remember
  XBox Live Gamertag - D Ray 13th 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decimator17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  After delays and hype Brawl has finally come and it was defenetly worth the wait. Since it's days 
 when it was first introduced on the Nintendo 64 in 1999 the Smash Bros. series has allways been 
 about one thing to simply smash your oponents out of the arena with a very simplistic control scheme. 
 Now in 2008 the goal is still the same, the thing this time around is more and more things.
  
  The most notable update in the game itself would be the roster of characters; this game features 
 35 characters from all over the Nintendo universe including 3rd pary characters such as Solid Snake 
 and Sonic the Hedgehog. All of the characters vary in speed strength and overall fighting style. 
 If you've played Melee then you will be familliar with the veteran fighters this time around, but 
 if your sick of them at this point there are plenty new fighters to play as.
  
  The second most notable thing that attracts people to the game is the online play. online itself 
 is very enertaining and has plenty of options for those who have friends or those who don't. Nintendo 
 even allows you to use Wii Connect 24 to upload your own custom maps, snap shots and repaly videos. 
 During my online fights with others the game tended to lag but this is entirely up to your internet 
 speed. As of yet there is no stat website, much like Guitar Hero's comunity website but I'm sure 
 that will change soon. When compared to Melee this game isn't as stat heavy either. During the 
 classic mode you don't get special end bonuses and in VS it just shows how many KO's and Suicides 
 there are the last game had much more stats tracked during the fight. These arent major flaws it 
 just would have been nice to see them back again.
  
  With the large selection of characters ranging from Sonic to Mario there are a number of arenas 
 to compliment them, all of which are easily recognizable from each characters series. Such examples 
 include Shadow Moasis Island from MGS and Green Hill Zone from Sonic the Hedgehog. The game even 
 includes some stages from the previous instalment Melee and even allows you to make your own custom 
 arenas, though don't expect it to be the greatest thing but it is a great addidition. 
  
  But how is the gameplay in all of this; well if you've played Melee then you know what your in 
 for. The game has two attack buttuns one for special atacks and one for smash attacks, these can 
 be comboed with a directional motion. Brawl also is the 1st Wii game to offer so many control styles, 
 whether you rather play with the wiimote, the wiimote+numbchuck, wiimote+classic controler extension, 
 or even the Nintendo Gamecube controller. The intersting thing about these choices is that they 
 are all customizable.
  
  The audio is another part of the game that is outstanding. With so many characters and arenas there 
 are plenty of theme songs to go around; there are even plenty of songs to unlock in the collection 
 vault. Such examples of the range of music would be an instrumental version of MGS3 Snake Eaters 
 theme song and other would be The Metroid Prime theme song.
  
  Smash Bros Brawl even features an all new adventure called the Subspace Emessary, in this mode 
 you play as the whole roster of characters as you work to save the world from Subspace. This mode 
 is defenetly better than the last games Adventure mode but it still has some issues. Notably the 
 whole side scrolling action can be tedious and repetitive not to mention platforming isn't that 
 good. On the other hand the story and plot are well writin with very nice CG cinematics. Besides 
 that there is still the classic mode for arcade fighters.
  
  The rest of the game is reall just collection and unlockables, there is an extensive collection 
 list in this game ranging from demos to trophies to even stickers which are like accessories for 
 your characters which can have a number of different status up affects on them; other unlockables 
 include music arenas characters and actual game modes. There is also the Home run Contest, Target 
 Test, and Multi-Man-Brawl which make a return from the last game. 
  
  Visually this game is very nice. I't defenetly seems as though the development team paid close 
 attention to detail in this game. This includes details on the clothing to the look and feel of 
 the arenas. A great example of this would be Mario and Luigi's character models, where the overalls 
 are defined and visable, and a great stage with excellent visuals would be final destination where 
 the background changes to a number of different backgrounds that are very nice to look at.
  
  Overall this game is one to be remembered for quite a while. It has depth but simplicity at 
 the same time; allowing anyone to play on a count of the simple controls and proving content for 
 Smash veterans. With the extensive roster of both characters and arenas and online it will defenetly 
 be played for a long long time.
  
  Pros-A slew of options both for online and off, plenty of characters, arenas, and general unlockables.
 
  Cons-General Stages in the Subspace Emessary are not really needed, though defenetly better than 
 Melee's adventure, No stat tacking for online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akel777
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Brothers Brawl is everything you expect it to be. Four players duke it out with crazy 
 items, special powers and constantly changing environments. It's easy for anyone to get into and 
 play and can last you for a long time while you try to figure out the intricacies of the game and 
 go through all the content. It has something for everyone and then some. There's a ton of unlockables 
 for those who like to try to complete tasks. A single player adventure that can be tedious and 
 repetitive, but still fun in short bursts and with a friend. Graphics have been refined and there 
 is so much going on and its all so beautiful that it is indeed a visual delight. Online play can 
 be weak, but it still fulfills its duty. There can be so much to say about this game, but all you 
 need to know is that it is great to play with friends, great to play with strangers and great to 
 play alone as well. So, unless you hate the franchise for whatever reason, get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CreatureRising
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Is a Fighting game from Nintendo and it should be, Because every charcter is 
 from the Nintendo World from Mario to Solid Snake The Game will feel Instantly Grabable for Newcommers 
 and Pros Alike. Plus now those Pros can Fight it off in WI FI one of the games many New features. 
 i Wont ruin and of the hidden Charcters but i will say 2 Sonic has made his way to the Fight and 
 Sold Snake from Metal Gear Solid. Each Charcter has a Awesome Brawl Special wich the game calls 
 the Super Smash. Example for Bowser He Transforms into the Sick Giga Bowser Who IS HALF THE MAP!!!! 
 The Maps in the game are tight Includeing Lugis Mansion and Others but its nice to able to creat 
 your own Maps and have a Decent amount from the Gamecube Game. Controlls are Tight but i havent 
 Tried the Wii Remote it self Instead Being a Huge Gamecube Player i use my Gamecube Controller 
 wich is a blast sence its pretty Much the Same buttons from the last fight. This game gives support 
 for Online Gamecube Controller New Charcters and Maps i mean in my opinion whats not to love??????!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaGamePhreak
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  -This is the review straight from my blog: 47reviews. blogspot. com-
  
  Graphics: 4.75/5 SSBB looks pretty much like Super Smash Bros. Melee, with a bit more polish. The 
 thing that is most amazing about this game graphically is how the frame rate stands up. There is 
 virtually zero lag. And with this game having the most action on the screen at once, it's nice 
 to see. There are quite a few maps, too - all of which are unique and are great to play on for 
 the most part.
  
  Sound: 5/5 One of the best sounding games ever. SSBB has a great soundtrack with a lot of variety, 
 and the in-game sounds never sounded better. The attacks and grunts of all the different characters 
 is fantastic. Very well done.
  
  Control: 4.75/5 Nintendo gives players the option to use a Wii remote, a Wii+Nunchuck combination, 
 Classic controller, or GameCube controller to play SSBB. I, personally, use the GameCube controller, 
 and the controls are the same as on SSBM. All of these combinations will give you the opportunity 
 to play several different ways.
  
  Fun: 5/5 SSBB may very well be the game of the year - at least for the Wii. SSBB has endless replay 
 value. Fourteen unlockable characters, tournaments, online play, the Subspace Emissary, and MUCH 
 more, will keep you playing for a long time. If you liked Melee, you will definitely love Brawl. 
 It has what Melee had and much more - more characters, stages, items, and fun. SSBB is the must-buy 
 Wii game of the year.
  
  5/5
  
  [It really doesn't deserve a perfect ten, but it is better than 9.5. Eh.] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PurelogicsBack
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  It's hard to explain in writing just how amazing a game like Brawl truly is. It really does have 
 everything you could possibly ask for out of a game. And there is so much content to the game, you 
 will be playing it for years to come.
  
  The premise of Brawl is Nintendo characters are out to beat the heck out of each other. With Smash 
 attacks, special moves with each character and a huge amount of items; such as red shells, baseball 
 bats and bombs. To win a Brawl you must knock your opponet out of the various well detailed levels. It 
 sounds simple but there are so many way to get the job done everyone will have there own unique 
 strategy of doing things which really makes the game fun to play with three other players.
  
  Brawl really hits it home with it's HUGE roster. Not everyone is here. But the roster is very 
 very well improved. There are less clones and more unique characters. And even guest characters Solid 
 Snake and Sonic. And the regulars you would expect like Mario, Link and Samus. AND maybe some you 
 have no idea are even Nintendo characters like Pit and King Dedede (I knew they were nintendo characters) .
 
  
  Levels are also a huge improvement. There a lot more fun to play on this time and there is a lot 
 more going on in the levels. Such as a huge top of an iceberge that you and three others are fighting 
 on crumbles and falls down into the water. BUT THE FIGHT CONTINUES, but watch out for a crazy big 
 fish that wants to make you dinner! And if you like calmer levels you got those levels to, and a 
 handful of ones from Melee. This game really gives everyone something to enjoy. And there is even 
 a well done map editor. GIVING you ENDLESS possibilities.
  
  There are all sorts of modes to keep you busy. An improved Single Player that is more fun then ever 
 combining platforming and fighting. AND the single player modes are really where you will be unlocking 
 most of your stuff for multiplayer action. And other modes like multi-man melee and classic mode 
 return as well. There is also all-star and challenges, and you can do mostly all of this with a coop 
 buddy!!
  
  Wifi is also added into the mix, adding more replay value to Smash Brothers then ever before. Each 
 match will be a new foe that has a brain and will most likely give you a heck of a challenge.
 
  
  Graphics are also well done in Brawl. Brawl looks amazing. It's not perfection. But the graphics have 
 a great style, and all these universes Nintendo created fits in well with one another. So from the 
 story cut scenes to characters and levels, Brawl looks amazing.
  
  Epic is the only word that could possibly describe the games music. Everything sounds beautiful. AND 
 the majority of the music is music you would want playing if you were in a real fight. It sounds 
 amazing and it's one of the best sounding games made in recent memory.
  
  Overall, I could go on and on about how amazing Brawl is, but people that read can only read so long 
 before getting bored. So I'll sum it up. Brawl may not be perfect in every area. But it deserves a 
 ten for it's heart, and the developers deserve all the credit through the hell they went through 
 to bring this game to us. If you're a gamer of any kind. Buy Brawl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rockuto
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  FINALLY!!! It finally comes to the U. S.! and i am super stoked that i got it. The only time i put 
 down this game was to pee, eat or sleep. The graphics are a vast improvement from their older brother 
 on the GameCube. The new weapons are sick... of course they still have the old items from the previous 
 console. The Final Smash add-on is great! Some of them are a little too powerful, but there always 
 ways to dodge them so it makes it more exciting. The stages are great. You can even build your 
 own stage. Customize characters as well as game play. I have not gone online with it yet, but soon 
 i will, like when i get off work today. I REALLY want to score this game a 9.9 but they only let 
 you score in increments of .5 so yeah. 
  
  All in all.... GET IT! it really is awesome, one of the best party/multiplayer games. I wont put 
 this game down for a loooooooooooooooooooong time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TooSmoooth
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  Great game... def alot more balanced than the last game. but i really didn't see why putting Lucas 
 in the game would make a difference? hes no different form Ness. personally i would of put in another 
 new person... like Megaman or Bomberman. The levels I thought were better in Melee, there's too 
 many waste of levels... but on the plus side i'm glad you can customize your own levels. They should 
 have remade more great levels like yoshis, or even kirbys dreamland. the best levels that they 
 have in brawl are by far final destination and battle field. There should be more levels like them. 
 The plain levels floaing in the air, and have maybe 3 platforms are the best type of levels by 
 far, Where as a stage like Bridge of Eldin u can only g up in the air and the sides. Occasionally 
 down when the bricks fall... but too me hitting characters off the platform and spiking them down, 
 is there specialty (aka Marth and Ike.) Fox and Falco should own in that type of map because they 
 love to run away shoot their laser and then up throw then up air. Next time please put in some 
 more stages like battlefield, other than that the game is pretty amazing. Way more balanced fox 
 isn't AS fast but still fast and his up throw isn't as rigged. But he still owns too me. gives 
 other characters a chance like a kirby... or a jigglypuff.
  Overall 8.5 . Great Game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kongousou_ha
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  In the words of a Mr. Peter Griffin, "Un-freakin'-believable." This game is amazing. I couldn't 
 believe how much fun I was having. Even in homerun contest, I was having a blast. First off, (not 
 that it matters much but...) the game looks simply amazing. I really can't believe how polished 
 Nintendo was able to make this game look. The hundreds of videos I've seen online do not do it 
 justice. This is actually the first time I've ever wished I had an HD set up so I could play with 
 the game as crisp and beautiful as possible. But soon enough I hope... 
  
  Moving on: controls. The option to switch between all four controllers was a stroke of genius AND 
 you can customize the buttons themselves if you prefer a different control scheme on the controller 
 you've chosen. How wonderful is that??? I myself am sticking with the staple gamecube melee setup 
 but it's just amazing to know that I can switch to something else at the drop of a dime. 
  
  The level of depth in this game is truly, truly astounding. There's so much to do and I love 
 the fact that I have barely scratched the surface. And what can I say about Subspace that we don't 
 already know: amazing. I don't care what gamespot says, every part of Subspace was perfect and 
 the cutscenes were ridiculously topnotch for a game that focuses on its fighting component rather 
 than its single player. My favorite one is the scene where Kirby saves the day with Dragoon. You'll 
 know what I'm talking about, those who have finished Subspace. For those who haven't, I kept that 
 simple so I wouldn't ruin anything. 
  
  And now, the Wifi. It plays very, VERY well considering the amount of action that goes on per match. 
 There's very, very little lag and this is the first time I've actually wanted to get home and continue 
 playing online against other people since I can actually control my character the way I want to, 
 rather than compensating for major lag and not enjoying myself. I still can't believe that I can 
 actually play against my friends online in 4-player brawls.
  
  I haven't even gotten to the Event mode and the other modes in the game but hopefully by now you 
 know this game is worth the 10 I'm giving it and the 11 I wish I could give it. If you have a Wii 
 go get this game NOW. It's a must have for veteran smashers and newcomers alike. I can't wait to 
 get home and keep playing. Brawl on people, Brawl on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haziqonfire
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2009 10:12 pm PT
Review:  E3 2005 -- i remember being told from Mr. Iwata himself, that he planned to have a new smash, fully 
 online capable, ready for the launch of the then called Revolution.
  
  Well, obviously that didnt happen, but we do now have the game, almost 3 years later. So, how is 
 it your wondering? Well i wont have to tell you guys anything about it, seeing as im guessing most 
 of you already know about it and love it to death. What i will do, is talk about different sections 
 of the game. Im not going to talk about the gameplay section, as most of you know what it is about.
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  The game is one of the Wii's best in the graphics department, however, its no super mario galaxy. 
 Yes, it looks nice, but its a small upgrade from melee, but thats not really a bad thing since 
 its running in a silky smooth 60FPS.
  
  Sound:
  
  Fantastic, Amazing, Epic. Call it what you want, 300+ remixed classic Nintendo/Sega/Metal Gear 
 tracks is just amazing. They have also reworked many of the sound effects, giving the game that 
 little bump. However, if i have to complain about anything, its Pits voice. He sounds like a girl.
 
  
  Controls:
  
  4 control schemes, all fully customizable, you'll find your favourite easily. For me, Classic Controller 
 is the way to go. For others, its most likely to be entirely different. Eithey way, the controls 
 are top notch
  
  Content:
  
  This game has so much stuff on it, its hard to believe its on 1 disc. So many modes, you'll never 
 get bored. Online is a great feature too, since it extends the longevity of the title.
  
  Overall impressions:
  
  Overall Super Smash Bros Brawl is a game that will definitely please 
 the fans -- however, it also feels as if with all this awesomeness, we've seen it all before. On 
 top of that, having the VERY laggy WiFi when compared to things like Mario Kart Wii, doesnt help.
 
  
  SSB: Brawl gets a 9.0/10 from me. The only thing hurting the title really is the very weak online 
 play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sorthax
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  For those of you who have played Super Smash Bro. with your buddies for the past 7 years... this 
 game was a very very long time coming. SSBM was, simply, an amazing game. It took the parts that 
 made the original fun, and turned it into a (depending on whose playing) super competitive, highly 
 addictive gaming experience. My friends and I, up until a couple of days ago, were still playing 
 Melee seven years after its release. It is still our go-to game when we want hours of competitive 
 fighting action. 
  
  So, to put it lightly, Super Smash Bro. Brawl has some very large expectations to fulfill. It absolutely 
 comes through on every single aspect. The only exception to its flawlessness as a game is one which 
 is almost unfair to label as criticism (as nearly all reviews have said already) ; its disappointing 
 to see only 2 third party characters enter the brawl...
  
  Each character in Brawl is beautifully rendered, Link and his Hyrulian shield and Master Sword 
 look as good as ever, and Mario's over-alls actually look like they are made out of jean material 
 instead of blue paper for the first time... Its so great to see all of these characters looking 
 so good on screen. Their movements are gorgeous, with the motion on screen never slowing down -- no 
 matter how chaotic it gets. 
  
  SSBB has some really fun single-player components to it as well -- believe it or not. The subspace 
 emissary is very fun, has some entertaining (not to mention beautiful) cut-scenes to tell the story 
 (which im still unsure of) . There are challenges, events, stickers to collect, trophies, music... you 
 name it and they have included it in this game. Unlockable levels, characters, musical themes, 
 there is a LOT to do in SSBB even when you don't have 3 friends to brawl with. 
  
  Ok so the bottom line is this. If you own a Wii, Buy this game. If you do not own a wii but know 
 someone who does, buy this game. If you do not own a wii and don't know someone who does, buy this 
 game and make new friends (ones that have a wii) . SSBB is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoreDude
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  this game is definitely worth the wait. Everything about it is so clean and polished and absolutely 
 perfect. With thwe wfour kinds of control it gives everybody a way to play that suits them. I have 
 been using the wii mote and it is a bit tricky at first but once you get the hang of it it is awesome. 
 As for game modes all are fun. Subsapce emissary is bit conusing and difficult in come places but 
 is is a pretty good adventure mode (also it is an easy way to unlock characters) . The final samshes 
 are unique and interesting fro each character. For instnace as link you may cut someone with a 
 triforce, or as bowser you will become giga bowser and a mr game and wathc u might be a giant octopus. 
 The chracter list is impressive with a number in the thirties. The trophies have some old and some 
 new and the coin luancher feature is alot more fun than the coin machine. All in all the later 
 release date made us all angry, but it was worht it for a game as perfect as this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueguy93
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 5:03 am PT
Review:  I got the game!! Yes, the first of 2008 I have.
  
  As the 3rd game in the series, SSBB would offer some of the most amazing changes the series would 
 officially offer. Some might not even seem this is so. Still, SSBB has the changes right in its 
 grasp. It finally came yesterday.
  
  It was originally released in March of 2007. Then, it was delayed to December, then January, then 
 Feburary 22nd. All was going well until Nintendo announced in late January the game was delayed 
 to March 9. Fans were devastated, as they wanted the game now. Fortunatly, this was the last delay. 
 The game was finally released in North America yesterday. Tell you what, the delay's were worth 
 it. Not only did we get Solid Snake from Metal Gear Solid, but we also got Sonic the hedgehog, 
 making the 2nd appearence. Ironically, this is the 2nd game Sonic appeared in to get an editor's 
 choice from Gamespot, the first was Sonic Adventure with a 9.2.
  
  It wouldn't be fair to constantly critisize this flawless masterpiece, because it's probably one 
 of the best games out there, if not the best. It might be the best, because I haven't fully played 
 the game, but parts of it. SSBB is the perfect fighting game, and is the Mona Lisa of video games. 
 You'll be dumb to get the Wii without getting the best game of 2008 along with it.
  
  Game-play: 10/10
  
  The game-play is one of the most infuential, revolutionary, and awesome 
 of any kind of the game-plays in the history of video-games. Some of the most precious changes 
 include higher replay value, 3rd party characters, new characters (duh) , and, of course, Final 
 smashes. These final smashes are given to almost every character. It's their most powerful attack, 
 but unpredictability of them makes them awesome. The stages are incredible. There a single drop 
 of funless flaw in them, for instance, the 75M stage.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  If you've played SSBM, you'd know the graphics in here are better then those in SSBM. The characters 
 look awesome, the stages look beautiful, and incredible. Some of the stages are even borrowed from 
 SSBM. Old or not, the visuals are still amazing and painless to watch.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  Great music!! The game has some of the best music I've heard in a long time (since Super Mario 
 Galaxy) . For instance, the instrumental orchestra and chorus add a lot of depth in the music. The 
 audio has tiny changes from SSBM, but it's still amazing and full of surprisingly good sounds.
 
  
  Camera and Control: 10/10
  
  Great camera!! It seems Nintendo worked hard with this camera. The adventure stages have the best 
 camera, because that's the only time there are cameras. Awesome control as well!! It might be on 
 the Wii, but the control might be easier then most of the mediocre Wii games combined, including 
 Ninjabread Man, and Arabis II (a sequel?)
  
  Value: 10/10
  
  SSB fan or not, it's completly obvious you should go get SSBB. It's awesome graphics, great game-play, 
 and catchy music make it a masterpiece for the ages.
  
  Average score: 10/10
  
  This is the game we've been waiting for. Had it not been for the delays and extra development, 
 SSBB probably wouldn't have recieved high acclaim, nor the score I'm giving it. The delays were 
 definitly worth it. There would be Snake, but no Sonic, or Pokemon Trainer, or Pikmin. Or anything. 
 There would be mixed reaction, with praise going for the Final smashes. Ultimatly, SSBB is one 
 of the best games of all time, and offers some of the best changes we've seen in the series. If 
 you get a Wii, find SSBB, because this masterpiece might even be sold out today, tommorow, or even 
 in a week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muyomuyo
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2008 5:19 am PT
Review:  My friend rented this game yesterday and I went over to his house. I was one of the people who 
 blinded myself so that the game would be a surprise. Boy was I surprised! It took about five minutes 
 to get used to using the Wii-mote, but when I figured out everything, the controls seemed pretty 
 easy. 
  My favorite part though so far is the level creator. Some games have really complicated level builders 
 with awkward control schemes, useless pieces and they're even sometimes missing pieces that would 
 seem obvious for them to include! But the Brawl level creator is simple, it has the parts you need 
 (if not, you can unlock them later) and it's fun. We made a level where there are falling blocks 
 at the spawn point, and if you don't get out of the way in time, you'll be stuck in a small box 
 which creates confusion and mass panic!
  
  I haven't played much of it, but I know that it's good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TenP
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 5:13 am PT
Review:  When I originally heard of Super Smash Bros. Brawl I wasn't looking forward to it at all, I thought 
 it would the same old boring stuff that we've seen in the past; you know, hand cramps, dizziness 
 and not knowing where your character is. But there was something different about this one that 
 did indeed make me take another look in, one of my favourite characters, Solid Snake, was in for 
 the fight. Of course at first I was a bit upset with it, why would Solid Snake trifle with Nintendo 
 Characters in a high-speed, non-stealth fighting game? But my love for Snake and the Metal Gear 
 Franchise (I've been playing them since the start) had overcome whatever ill feelings I had and 
 I decided to buy it on opening day.
  
  I was surprised that I was able to just get in and get out, sure there was a line but it moved 
 quickly. When I got home I put it in my Wii and turned it on when I was instantly crushed, I had 
 to unlock Snake. I didn't want the game in the first place and now I had to spend time finding 
 out how to unlock the only reason why I bought it? Blasphemy.
  
  But I did unlock Snake, and surprisingly I had a blast doing it. I love all the characters (Except 
 Peach's annoying Final Smash) , how they're balanced. I love the assist trophies and special moves, 
 single-player, multi-player, intarwebz action, minigames and a lot more. 
  
  There is only one reason why I refuse to review this as the full ten out of ten and I'll say it 
 in three words: no Phoenix Wright. Wright would've been the addition that would blast this game 
 to perfection.
  
  OBJECTION!
  
  Anyway, SSBB is surprisingly the best game that's on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbaily
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 4:37 am PT
Review:  After what seemed like umteen years of waiting and anticipation, Smash Bros. Brawl has arrived 
 and it's everything you hoped for. One of those games that actually manages to live up to the hype 
 and still exceed that.
  
  We all know how Brawl works and Nintendo stuck to the philosophy of, "if it ain't broke, don't 
 fix it." Four players battle as classic Nintendo characters in an arena with the object being to 
 knock your opponents out of the ring. You have the largest Smash cast assembled and this time 3rd 
 party characters like Solid Snake and Sonic the Hedgehog join the fray as well. This is a much 
 welcomed addition. Other new fighters like Metaknight and Pit are also welcome additions offering 
 their own moves. However there's still some clone characters (Falco, Lucas, Wolf) though they tried 
 to make them slightly different this time around. Still you wonder about some choices in the roster. 
 Who cares about that stupid ROB robot and what the heck happened to Mewtwo?
  
  Smash Bros. Brawl is a game that won't be leaving your Wii console any time soon. There is so much 
 to do in this game, it would be really hard for anyone to get bored. Returning again is the classic 
 battle mode where you pick a fighter, and battle through several stages to the final showdown with 
 Master Hand. There's the Event Matches which now let you pick the difficulty setting. The same 
 for the target test.
  
  Probably the biggest and most surprising addition to the single player mode is the newly added 
 "Subspace Emissiary" adventure mode. In this story mode, you play as various characters on an journey 
 to stop a mysterious darkness from engulfing the world of Nintendo. While there's no voice acting 
 in the cutscenes, they're still beautifully rendered in CG making this one of the nicest looking 
 Wii games to date.
  
  As you probably already know, there are four different controls schemes. Wiimote, Wiimote nunchuck, 
 classic controller, and Gamecube. Sadly none of the control schemes involve any sort of movement, 
 then again Brawl is a game where an unregistered movement could spell life or death. Many of you 
 will probably stick to your old school controller but the Wiimote/nunchuck setup isn't too bad 
 once you get used to the button placement.
  
  Also making a return is the trophy collecting which is addictive as ever for fans with the addition 
 of stickers as well. At first stickers seemed pretty pointless until you learn that you can use 
 them in story mode to boost character stats adding an RPG element to the game. There's also a coin 
 shooting mini game replacing that boring gumball machine from Brawl for collecting additonal trophies 
 and stickers which is surprisingly fun.
  
  Another new feature is stage builder, as if the game wasn't addicting enough. Now you can make 
 your own stages and it is fun for those who want to be creative, it also feels a bit limited and 
 you can't share these online.
  
  But despite all the single player goodness, Smash Bros. is known for its multiplayer which has 
 always been its strongest feature. Now Smash Bros. is finally online meaning you can Brawl with 
 anyone, anywhere. For the most part, it is lag free depending on your connection. You can use friends 
 codes or just go into random battles. This is the first online Wii game that really nailed everything. 
 It is only a shame that there's no headset or leaderboards. Still I don't think that will deter 
 people from playing Brawl online.
  
  As I said before, the graphics in this are the best the Wii can offer and the soundtrack is top 
 notch. My only complaint was load times are a bit long and Nintendo is known for having little 
 to no load times in their games.
  
  Still all the complaints are minor when you look at the big picture. My first playing, I sat for 
 six hours straight trying out everything and still wanting more. The biggest problem you're going 
 to have is knowning when to turn it off and go to bed..... and then get up and start playing again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meleeboy
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2008 2:42 am PT
Review:  For the first time, I can actually say that my hopes for this game were well met, and my expectations 
 were far surpassed. This game has actually lived up to all its hype and I don't have that strange 
 disappointed feeling after playing a few hours.
  
  If you were a Melee veteran, you will probably have a bit of a hard time making the transition 
 with the gamecube controller. Personally, I started off with the Wiimote and Nunchuck because of 
 the Gamestop tournament, but I've grown to use nothing but it. It feels very smooth, but the speed 
 is alot slower, so strategy must be used almost always along with timing.
  
  The Adventure mode is a very fun new addition, and it is amazing how many areas there are to explore. 
 I have yet to finish it, but I must say that it is very long. So unless you only plan to do one 
 or two missions, make sure you have at least a few hours so you can fully enjoy everything Subspace 
 Emissary has to offer.
  
  I cannot even begin to describe how much there is to unlock in this game. If you thought Melee 
 had a large unlockable list of trophies and other goodies, wait until you get a feel for Brawl. 
 I literally just played the coin launcher mini-game for an hour and I figured I had unlocked alot 
 of trophies. Well I did... and then I checked how many I still have to unlock. V_V So unless you 
 have alot of time on your hands and a good guide to follow, you probably won't run out of things 
 to unlock anytime soon. =P
  
  As I stated before, the speed has reduced considerably compared to Melee's game physics. However, 
 that is not necessarily a bad thing. They brought back the good ol' opening sequence at each round 
 where they zoom in on each character as they appear on stage. And for those of you who preferred 
 SSB64 to SSBM, you will feel a bit more comfortable with Brawl as they have brought back other 
 numerous things they left out in Melee.
  
  The new character roster is by far the best in my opinion. Although they removed alot from Melee, 
 I think it was probably for the better. I won't name any newcomers for spoilers sake, but I will 
 say that most of them have made the transition quite smoothly, and some are even better for button 
 smashers than the veteran characters.
  
  Online could have been better, and right now it is a bit hard to tell how it is to fight random 
 people. But from what I've experienced so far, it is highly enjoyable. You cannot experience Adventure 
 mode online, even though it is coop, but all of the other online features are quite nice. There 
 isn't a whole lot to say about online other than it runs very smoothly, and I have yet to disconnect 
 during an actual battle. Only before or after usually.
  
  In all, this is one of the few games I can actually truthfully give a 10/10. And it completely 
 deserves it after all it has been hyped up to be, since it actually lives up to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Putogay
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2008 12:17 am PT
Review:  The most anticipated game for the Wii s finally here. Super Smash Bros. Brawl delivers a great 
 variety of modes such as Solo, which contains Classic and Adventure (SSE) modes. You can choose 
 from 1 of 4 different controls- The Wii-mote+Nunchuk, Wii-mote sideways, GCN controller, and the 
 classic controller. You can edit the button layout for each to suit your play style. New and beautiful 
 graphics come with the game, a little slower than melee, a bit floatier, but you will adjust to 
 the game in a couple of hours. Some characters in the game are Mario, Pit, Wario, Samus, Kirby, 
 Pikachu, Meta-Knight. Other characters appear as secrets which I won't spoil.
  
  Solo contains Classic Mode, Adventure Mode, Minigames, and another secret mode you unlock later. 
 Some minigames you can play are break the targets which is self-explanatory, Multi-man brawl which 
 you fight against characters, and Home-Run Contest.
  
  Classic Mode has appeared in every Smash game to date. It is a really satisfying mode where you 
 fight against most characters 1 on 1, vs 2, vs Giant, vs Team, and even in their Metal form. When 
 you reach the last battle you fight against the Master Hand. Overall, this mode never gets repetitive 
 and you will find coming back to playing this over and over.
  
  Adventure Mode (SSE) is a new type of mode that replaced the old Adventure Mode. This mode contains 
 a storyline that takes place in many different worlds from some Nintendo Games, such as the Halberd 
 from the Kirby games, Skyworld from Kid Icarus, and many more. It also contains new worlds created 
 specifically for SSBB. In this mode you use most of the characters which include cutscences. You 
 try to save the world from a menace that striked that is turning everyone into trophies. Anyways, 
 I won't spoil it for you, but this mode overall is pretty good. It might get repetitive at times, 
 and you might find yourself lost and overwhelmed in the last level.
  
  In the Vault you can see the trophies you have, you can play a mini-game to gain new trophies, 
 you can see the picture you've taken, you can play trials of old game called "Masterpieces" and 
 much more.
  
  In Options you can adjust the settings of the game, how it looks. Data shows the time you've played, 
 who you've used the most, details of which characters you've used, and much more.
  
  The Multiplayer "Brawl" Mode is the mode you will be playing the most. In here you can challenge 
 your friends to a brawl, and you can also play in team battles. You can even customize the matches 
 to your liking. You can unlock the characters here too if you don't want to play Adventure Mode.
 
  
  The last mode is Wifi, which you can play against people online. You can play against anyone without 
 customizing the match, or play friend with friend codes, where you can customize match and play 
 minigames too.
  The wifi mode is still being worked on so right now it might not work so well.
  
  Overall, 
 it is a must have game for the Wii, I consider it the best. It is a must have if you want to host 
 parties, it will bring much attention, many people will find it fun and easy to play.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2008 5:05 am PT
Review:  The game we were all waiting for is finally came. Super Smash Bros. Brawl is the greatest Wii game 
 that will ever be out. Tons of new characters from Nintendo like Pit from Kid Icarus, Meta Knight, 
 Lucas, Pokemon Trainer, and more. Also non-Nintendo characters such as Sonic and Solid Snake join 
 the game. A new adventure mode that has amazing FMVs and boss battles with Rayquaza, Ridley and 
 Porky which would bring back memories of other games. What's great about the Smash Bros. series 
 is that there will always be something or someone that brings back memories of an old game. Especially 
 for the gamer who played a lot of old games. Tons of trophies and characters to unlock, a stage 
 builder and some of the Melee stages return to this game. A chronicle mode where you have a list 
 of games on every nintendo console from Game & Watch, NES, to Virtual Boy, to Wii. A list of every 
 nintendo game. A Masterpiece mode where you can play up to 5 minute demos of some classic titles 
 like Kid Icarus, Kirby's Adventure, Star Fox 64 and more. Even a Wi-Fi battle so players can finally 
 go online and battle people worldwide. Can there be any more things we want? Despite the goodies, 
 there are some downsides. Long load times in the Subspace Emissary and you can't use your custom 
 arenas on Wi-Fi, Some of the characters of the same symbol have the same moves. Especially Fox, 
 Wolf and Falco and their final smash with the Landmaster, and Ness and Lucas and their PK Meteor. 
 I'm glad that the characters' entrances make a comeback after their absence in Melee. Mario comes 
 out of his pipe, Fox, Falco and Wolf come out of their ships, you know, right? Some characters 
 got replaced and that's alright but Roy would've done good in Brawl. Too bad that he was replaced 
 by Ike, also of Fire Emblem. And there really was no point for Dr. Mario since it was basically 
 Mario. There once was a Young Link but now it's a Toon Link as seen in Wind Waker and Phantom Hourglass. 
 Mewtwo was in it but now Lucario is. No Pichu, instead it's Pokemon Trainer. Jigglypuff is still 
 there and still the worst character. Other than that, this game is still number 1 and Wii's bestseller. 
 Nintendo never lets us down when it comes to Metroid, Super Mario and Super Smash Bros. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zap107
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 10:13 pm PT
Review:  SUPER SMASH BROTHERS BRAWLLLLL!!! All in all SSBB is a very fun and entertaining game. For wii 
 owners this is definetly a MUST HAVE and by far the best game for the wii
  
  Midnight madness has come and gone after waiting months and months pondering on what characters 
 would be featured in the next installment we all imagined 50 + characters from mario to every character 
 from every game and the what if's like what if megaman was in the game? or how about sonic and 
 knuckles and maybe even shadow? Some of our prayers were answered but not many. 
  
  SSBB boasts a decent amount of characters all with different speed powers and styles, but it left 
 many people wanting more i know i would have loved to see much more from the sonic franchise such 
 as knuckles, shadow, tails and maybe even eggman (dr. robotnik) . I also would have liked to see 
 a different final boss. 
  
  The game play is very much the same which is good although as in melee at times it feels a little 
 slippery but not as bad. The new addition in this one is that you are able to do smashes or w/e 
 which do heavy damage if you catch your opponent its almost like a finisher but not exactly. There 
 are also of course new weapons and majority return 
  
  The Classic mode returns except with a couple more stages instead of it being 9 or 8 its now 12. 
 Subspace emissionary or w/e its called is like the adventure mode in melee and its longer and better 
 than melee's
  
  There are many different stages in brawl and a couple of melee stages. One thing i noticed in brawl 
 is that many of the stages have alot going on in the background and i mean ALOT. by far one of 
 the more unique is the pictochat stage. In SSBB it lets you customize your own stage which i have 
 yet to do so idk how that works just quite yet 
  
  the transition from melee to brawl not alot has really changed There is much much more in this 
 game; online, HUGE selection of music, TONZ of unlockables, variety of characters, good graphics. 
 This game brings alot to the table. But other than that the side scrolling levels alot of the characters 
 and the gameplay is the same
  
  SSB has come a longgg way from the beginning This one is a must play if not a must buy i highly 
 recommend it and no other fighter can beat its multiplayer PERIOD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Konxumer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 10:09 pm PT
Review:  If you have a Wii you need to have Brawl period.
  
  If you've been living under a rock for your entire life here's the basic idea.
  Grab one of your 
 favorite Nintendo characters and start knocking the tar out of anyone in your way. 
  
  The Good: 
  Production values are top notch including fully orchestrated sound tracks.
  Local 
 four player multiplayer is a blast. 
  Supports online play and if someone drops the computer takes over thus preventing people from dropping 
 out to protect their record.
  
  The Bad:
  The adventure mode. Ok so it's just sub par, but it's not ugly or good. It's like a side scrolling 
 action game with Brawl rules. The pacing is far and away off as you play through side scrolling 
 level after another wondering when your going to fight someone.
  
  The Ugly:
  Standard matchmaking also needs more options as you are stuck only playing timed matches. 
  
 
  As of this moment the online portion of the games performance is being far less than stellar. 
 Only custom friends matches are working. Standard matches are not. I'm docking an entire point 
 for this as it does hinder the value of the game significantly. If this were resolved however the 
 game would be a 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan543
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Brothers Brawl will keep you entertained for hours and hours for the next couple years. 
 No kidding. So many extras and game modes is really difficult to try them all out in a few days. 
 An even if you manage to do it, the replay value is so good that it will practically last forever. 
 Even if you go at it solo you will find yourself with a highly entertaining game. The Subspace 
 Emissary features 8 to 9 hours of solid gameplay with different difficulty level that will surelly 
 keep you busy for a while, plus you get to unlock many of the characters while doing it. The cutscenes 
 are just sweet and you might want to watch them over and over again. If you get bored of the Adventure 
 Mode, and want to remember old times, then play Classic Mode. 12 levels that change every time 
 you play the game and you have 5 different difficulty levels. Just plain sweet. If you don't want 
 to play any of those then try the Events: you have to clear every single challenge and sometimes 
 the goals are not fight oriented, other times you are placed in extreme fighting situations, plus 
 you get to unlock characters and stages. Suppose you get tires or beat all of those Events. Well, 
 you have the Stadium. Want to set your own records in the Target Levels??? Want to beat the Crap 
 out off the Multi Man Melee???? Want to send the Sandbag to Oblivion?? You got it all here, and 
 if by any chance you already beated the Subspace Emissary you unlock the Boss Levels, oh yeah, 
 beat all the bosses without dying, thats really challenging. Not enough? Unlock all the characters 
 and you unlock the All Star mode which is one of the most challenging modes in Brawl. 
  Suppose you don't want to go at it solo. Then play the Group Mode!! This is my far the most attractive 
 mode of Brawl. Customizable options, tourneys, amazing items (be sure to grab that Smash Ball! 
 Hell Yeah!) etc. It's all there and it sure packs a punch, so many characters and levels, its just 
 insane! Don't wanna play Brawl? Then get someone to join you in the Subspace Emissary and kick 
 some buts! And just imagine you are all alone in your house and wanna play some Brawl... well, 
 you just need an broadband internet connection, connect to Nintendo WFC and fight against other 
 4 people, you can play with teams and you can also play against friends! Lag free multiplayer, 
 thats what I'm talking about. The only con about this featre is the annoying friend codes, but 
 who cares about that? It's Brawl! Even if you don't want to do any of this you can just expect 
 matches or you can also create your own levels in the level editor or play the demos included in 
 the game of old classics! Or just listen to the music! Or collect thophies in the coin launcher!! 
 So many things to do!!
  This game is just awesome. The controls will feel a little bit weird for Smash Bros. veterans. 
 At first it feels a little bit slow, but eventually, you will see that it helps a lot to do amazing 
 combos. Even wavedashing is back for the hardcore players. You can use any of the fours controls 
 available for the Wii (classic, gamecube, wiimote and wiimote + nunchuck) , and you can customize 
 all of the controls for that controller just to suit you fine. The game feels just right, everything 
 clicks perfectly into harmony. The graphics are amazing too. The new models of characters are great 
 and full of details and the cutscenes, well, I already talked about them. 
  So, you get a game that lasts forever. Its worth all every single penny you invest on it. You won't 
 regret it. The game is so much fun and offers so many stuff to do that it will last forever. Its 
 great for parties and also to play with friends, but know you can also do it online. The only bad 
 points about th game is the incomplete online mode, mainky because its plain basic: you only get 
 to fight others, no leaderboards, nothing, and that's terrible fot competitive brawlers. But still, 
 it's really fun. Also, the inclusion of some melee characters that still are clones of other characters 
 is a little bit disappointing, but can easily get over it. Who didn't dreamed of playing with Ganondorf 
 with his sword and being able to transform in a similar fashion to Zelda/Sheik to Ganon? Nevertheless, 
 the small details cannot be compared to the huge awesomeness of the entire game. I already lost 
 like 30 minutes writing this. What was I thinking!! Brawl On till Dawn (or Sunset) !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kkiirraa99
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 9:51 pm PT
Review:  OMG i'm soooo glad that this game finally came out and let me tell you it was worth the wait .
 
  
  This game is sooo good i think that the online play is the best part and what's really good is 
 there is hardly any lag. But even without online play this game is good i especially liked the 
 music in this game because i think it's really good music. The graphics in this game are very good 
 at leat for a super smash Bro. game. Everything in this game is way better then Melee. What's also 
 really good is how the stages change as time goes by because i think it makes the game more thrilling 
 because you have to watch out so the stage doesn't kill you too. This game has many new features 
 such as creating your own stages because yeah it's fun playing on stages from games but it's pretty 
 fun making your own stages as well i also like the wide range of new characters. The subspace emissary 
 is another really great feature in this game be cause i think it's pretty fun especially if your 
 looking to just have some nice fun. But once again i have to say that online play is the best about 
 this game because you get to face off against other hardcore brawl fans besides your friends.
 
  
  Sadly to say there was some minor set backs one was that the camera always seems to be zoomed to 
 far out so it's kinda hard to see yourself and one other thing is the new control scheme i wouldn't 
 recommend using the Wii remote i would use the classic controller or the game cube controller just 
 because the new control scheme is kinda difficult to grasp and it takes a while to get really proficient 
 at it and it just doesn't feel like super smash bros. with the wii remote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wazzo_Wisto_2
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. (N64) brought us a new stunning way to found our favorite Nintendo characters, 
 fighting in an incredible game that marked the N64.
  Super Smash Bros. Melee (NGC) brought us a "refresh" of this SSB., which also marked the GC and 
 until the final day of the GC it stayed a best seller for the console.
  Now, today March 9 2008, a brand new game called Super Smash Bros. Brawl throws the final blow 
 (well, technically the Final Smash) to us, and makes us, once more, become addicted with another 
 game that is, simply amazing, even it was delayed once, when I pressed the Start button, I understood 
 why Nintendo delayed it.
  It's amazing that Nintendo and everybody that made possible this VG, decided to include Sonic and 
 Snake, the roster increased a lot since SSBM.
  I still haven't had the chance to test the Wi-Fi brawl mode, but I'm sure it's amazing.
  Everybody 
 with a Wii, MUST and I say MUST, buy this amazing game!!!
  
  Smash forever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squallzxyz
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl is not a game but a celebration of gaming, it redefines fun, it captures 
 the essence of competition, it also has multiplayer that makes anything else seem like a bad joke. 
 Nothing comes shoulder to shoulder with the super smash bros series and none of its predecessors 
 achieve the near perfect game design. Brawl is what gaming exists for, something so fun and yet 
 so challenging it borders on being absurd. Anyone can play it yet very few can actually say they 
 have mastered it, with the addition of online play people can take on others for a furious battle 
 of skill or maybe just an insane match of spamming ultimate attacks. The new characters are awesome 
 and some make you completely rethink the way you do battle. The collectibles and hidden easter 
 eggs are so addictive and fun to gather that you will lose track of all the trophies awarded to 
 you with tons of diverse things with their own bits of lore from ages of gaming gone by. 
  The controls can range from slick to being just plain weird since players are offered 4 completely 
 different ways to play each with its own set of perks. Hearing your character shout for a challenge 
 from your wii-mote has the same feeling of a warcry but for those who would rather not adapt they 
 can stick with the tried and true gamecube controller (I have a feeling nintendo will start selling 
 a ton of wavebirds because of this game) . 
  The graphics may not be cutting edge but anyone can appreciate the leap made from the already nicely 
 detailed Melee models. The new Final Smash attacks are more entertaining than fireworks shows once 
 successfully executed, which depending on character choice, may be fairly rare. The stages are 
 far more plentiful in this installment than the last two combined and possibly even doubled. While 
 on the topic of stages the game has added a level constructor which is quite fun once all the editor 
 tools are unlocked from gameplay. Building stages start with choosing the Size, Background, and 
 Music. Brawl features a TON of music from Nintendo classics as well as remixes, there are hundreds 
 of songs available for unlocking during conquest of the games features.
  SSBB has tons of content for the solo gamer to run through. Brawl still has the classic fight to 
 the final boss mode, as well as an adventure mode and event mode both of which can be played in 
 Coop mode with a 2nd player.
  Like I said before though Brawl is a celebration of gaming and the fun that it can offer to all 
 audiences willing to give it a shot. Perfect score the perfect game sure some may argue that it 
 isn't but that comes down to a matter of taste, not judgment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sasuke_Ninja21
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Huge controversy upon getting this game..... I had to borrow my freinds Nintendo Wii just to play 
 this game, and i had to give let him borrow my Xbox 360 and 3 games while i just play SMBB..... and 
 it was worth it.... i now have three games that have reached my 10 grade mark for all the games 
 that I have reviewed.... why does this game deserve a 10 you say? I will be going through story, 
 gameplay, Graphics, Control, Sound, a newly introduced Multiplayer now to my reviews and of course 
 my overall say on the game.
  
  So as far as a story goes you have two ways of going through the game, First is the subspace Emissary 
 Super Smash Bros. This mode features unique character storylines along with numerous side scrolling 
 levels and multiple bosses to fight, as well as CG cut scenes explaining the storyline. "The Subspace 
 Emissary" features a new group of antagonists called the Subspace Army, who are led by the Ancient 
 Minister. Some of these enemy characters appeared in previous Nintendo video games, such as Petey 
 Piranha from the Mario series and a squadron of R. O. B. s based on classic Nintendo hardware. "The 
 Subspace Emissary" also boasts a number of original enemies, such as the Roader, a robotic unicycle; 
 the Bytan, a one-eyed ball-like creature which can replicate itself if left alone; and the Primid, 
 enemies that come in many variations. Though primarily a single-player mode, "The Subspace Emissary" 
 allows for cooperative multiplayer. This mode also features a unique power-up mechanism in the 
 form of collectible Stickers that can be applied to the base of the player's character trophies.] 
 Every stage accessible within "The Subspace Emissary" can be played on five different difficulty 
 levels.
  
  After you have gone through the pretty lengthy Adeventure mode you can then go through the classic 
 mode which just sends you upon stages upon stages trying to get a highscore and finally beating 
 the final boss.
  Following the style of its predecessors, the game uses a battle system different from that of typical 
 fighting games. Choosing from a variety of characters, one to four players fight on various stages, 
 trying to knock their opponents off the screen. Instead of using health bars like those used in 
 most fighting games, percentage displays are employed. These start at 0%, and increase as the characters 
 take damage up to 999%. As a character's percentage goes up, the character flies farther back when 
 hit. When a character is knocked beyond a stage's boundary and disappears from the screen, the 
 character loses either a life or a point depending on the mode of play. The game can be played 
 using the Wii Remote on its side, the Wii Remote and Nunchuk together, the Classic Controller, 
 or the GameCube controller, for a total of four possible control styles. Players are also able 
 to create profiles with personalized button configurations for each control method along with their 
 chosen username.
  
  
  Mario, Yoshi, Ike, and Wario preparing to fight. The damage meter now displays the name, image, 
 and series symbol of the character. The characters can fight each other with a variety of attacks. 
 Each move is prompted with the press of a button in conjunction with a tilt of the control stick 
 or a press of the D-pad, depending on the mode of control. In addition to basic attacks, such as 
 punches and kicks, characters have access to more powerful smash attacks. Each character also has 
 four character-specific special moves, which often have unique effects beyond damaging an opponent. 
 The game introduces the ability to perform character-specific super attacks, referred to as "Final 
 Smash" moves. Final Smashes are significantly more powerful than regular attacks, having a wide 
 variety of effects that range from nearly unavoidable blasts to temporary transformations. These 
 abilities may be performed upon destroying a Smash Ball, an item bearing the Smash Bros. symbol. 
 When the Smash Ball has been successfully broken by a character, that character can execute a Final 
 Smash. However, should the player wait too long to use it and sustain too much damage, the ability 
 will be lost and the Smash Ball will be knocked out of the character to resume flying about the 
 stage.
  
  The characters can make use of a variety of items, ranging from projectiles to melee weapons. Each 
 item has a different effect on the characters around it. While many items return from previous 
 Super Smash Bros. games, new items are also introduced in Brawl. Some returning items have also 
 received upgrades, changing their appearances and/or capabilities. Two varieties of items, Assist 
 Trophies and Pok Balls, temporarily summon guest characters and Pokmon, respectively, that generally 
 assist the summoner. They cannot be controlled by players and are usually invincible.
  
  As in Super Smash Bros. Melee, the game introduces new stages. New environmental gameplay mechanics 
 have been added with this installment, such as destructible terrain. A stage based on the Animal 
 Crossing series features a live events system in which special events may occur depending on the 
 date and time. Unlike its predecessors, Brawl also includes stages based on third-party games such 
 as the Metal Gear Solid-inspired Shadow Moses Island. Many stages undergo elaborate changes while 
 battles take place, such as a cycling day-to-night system [20] and changing seasons. The game also 
 includes some stages originally seen in its predecessor.
  
  Brawl also allows players to create their own stages using a variety of options in a mode called 
 Stage Builder. Players can save their stages to an SD card or the internal memory of the Wii console. 
 Stages can also be sent to registered friends. Through Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, players are able 
 to submit their creations daily to Nintendo, and receive a daily stage from the service.
  
  Now being a 2D fighter your not trying to have the most flashiest kind of graphics because you 
 will be to busy in a 4 player match with chaos going all around you but that does not mean that 
 the graphics are the same as they were in Melee, they have imrpoved on most of the character models 
 and in some cases they have used the same model over again and just changed a few things (fox, 
 falco, wolf have the exact same moves just a diffrent type of movement and a small bit diffrent 
 in the character models) .
  
  You can use any of the of the controllers for the Wii, Clasic, Numchuck, Wii remote and the gamecube 
 controllers which work the best for old time veterans and will also feel alot more natrual for 
 newcomers. There are only two buttons that you will be need to be using if you are new to this 
 game and for veterans their are ways of dodging while airborne and by rolling from side to side 
 then grabbing them and throwing them in anyway you move the control stick.
  
  The music in this game (or sound, basically sound is music and the attacks on the character sound 
 sweet and nice but the music is amazing and this is why) . On May 22, 2007, Sakurai revealed a list 
 of 36 composers providing music for the game. Sakurai stated that he has asked the composers, who 
 come from a variety of companies and have written music for first, second, and third-party games, 
 "to listen to an elite selection of Nintendo music and arrange several of their favorite songs." 
 The game's various stages have multiple musical tracks which players can listen to using the new 
 "My Music" feature, including some pieces that were taken directly from other games without any 
 modification or special arrangement. This feature also allows the player to select the likelihood 
 of how often a piece gets played during a stage. Some of the pieces need to be unlocked while playing 
 the game.
  
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl allows players to play against distant opponents through the use of Nintendo 
 Wi-Fi Connection. Online multiplayer games can be played either with registered friends or with 
 other randomly selected participants. The players' nicknames will be displayed during multiplayer 
 matches. Additionally, players can converse with up to four phrases that are set by the player 
 beforehand. The four phrases correspond to the characters' taunts and will appear in speech bubbles 
 above the characters. It has been stated that these names and phrases will not be displayed in 
 random-player matches. A Spectator mode allows players to watch matches from players who have enabled 
 the 'Allow Spectators' option, and bet on the outcome using coins earned within the game. The winner 
 of the bet receives a jackpot of coins. While waiting for a match to start online, players may 
 practice fighting against Sandbag. Some other gameplay modes, such as the Home-Run Contest, can 
 also be played using Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection.
  
  In addition, snapshots may be taken during battles or in certain other modes. These snapshots can 
 be sent to friends or submitted to Nintendo through Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. Video replay footage 
 can also be captured in specific game modes, including Brawl and Target Smash! modes, and sent 
 to friends in the same manner.
  
  So overall uhhh... lets just say that this game is amazing no matter who you are if you are an owner 
 of a Nintendo Wii and have many freinds debating on who can kill who.... this is definetly a game 
 for you.... and everyone else.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: albertojz356
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 9:28 pm PT
Review:  This is the 3rd game of the series and like its predecessors it has tons of fun for multiplayer 
 and single player modes.
  
  The new Adventure mode is a whole new experience with a weird but nice storyline and a lot of cool 
 scenes. The new trophies, stickers and the mode that allows players to mess with them is a sweet 
 new mode. As well as the tons of new modes like create your stage, and more. A lot of veteran stuff 
 returns like characters, stages, entrances, and the gameplay is not similar but not too different 
 from Melee's controls. (it's a mixture of Smash 64 & Melee) .
  
  Final Smashes! excellent new detail, almost every character has their own unique final smash. This 
 game has so many great points. However on the negative side:
  
  The wi-fi play is unnecessarily strict and lacks the power to be called great, it's very similar 
 to Mario Kart DS except without the nickname/username being displayed. Don't worry Nintendo, a 
 nickname does not mean a person will get kidnapped. Though Sakurai the creator of the game made 
 the wi-fi play strict for a good reason, it might not appeal many people. However it's still fun 
 to try, as there are many other ways to communicate through wi-fi with friends (you can send stickers 
 to them and more) .
  
  There is still a good amount of clones in this game, many final smashes stereotype the originality 
 of a certain series. The character representation was almost close to representing great Nintendo, 
 but a few playables seemed like poor choices and it's those choices that don't match the originality 
 of Nintendo. (The Assist Trophy roster proves that there were better choices to use from) . However 
 don't worry as only very few poor choices infested to be playable in Brawl, and even then it's 
 completely optional to the player to think if or not those characters were worthy. Plus the majority 
 of the roster is Great, it's just human nature to look at the negative sides instead,
  
  Third parties break the tradition of Smashing with Nintendo All Stars.
  
  Feminists might be 
 disappointed since Samus taking off her suit is the only new playable female.
  
  Villain supporters might also be disappointed as only very few villains managed to make it to playable 
 ranks.
  
  OH HOLD ON! I am not FINISHED!
  
  Many of the great choices that were unluckily left behind still appear in this game either as trophies, 
 stickers, Assist trophies, or all three. So in a way almost every fan of first /second party Nintendo 
 series will be pleased. 
  
  Besides everything else in this game is fun, as it includes many new modes, stuff, and more that 
 will make this game a whole new experience and make any person that plays it happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silverdust39
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be the best game of the year. It had fans around the world buying it on it's release 
 date, it's an epic brawl. With it's unbeatable graphics, exciting story lines, and sweet adventure 
 modes, there's not one person in the world today that can say it's terrible. It's already been 
 rated top game of the year, and on it's release date, too. Personally, I have been waiting for 
 this game for so long! I have been checking the daily updates, to see the characters, stages, and 
 music. My favorite addition to the game has got to be the online multiplayer mode. It's one of 
 the many things that makes this game worthy to be game of the year. But we've all heard about the 
 release delays, but who can still be upset now? Without the delays, we wouldn't have had all the 
 great things on the game. And if you want to expierence a true brawl, buy it. I'm sure you all 
 have, but if you or someone you know hasn't, make sure you/they do! You'll be glad you did!
  
  I bought it on the release date, and my brother and I have been playing it for almost 7 hours 
 STRAIGHT! Play it, and you'll know why! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwishBaller2322
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  I have always loved Super Smash Bros. But this game just brings it into a whole new level of fun. 
 I will never stop enjoying this game. The roster of characters is the biggest so far. I bought 
 this game the day it came out for full price and I don't regret it at all. If you ever have the 
 chance to get this game, without a doubt, buy it. Not only is it fun for a gamer himself, but fun 
 for the whole family for sure. This game is made for almost all ages. The action, fun, and brilliant 
 plotting of the game is what makes this the greatest game ever to hit the Wii. Brawl was worth 
 the wait and delay. There are so many unlockable items such as characters and trophies. I personally 
 have a Wii and would like anybody who is a serious gamer to leave their Wii Number so I can see 
 if you really do have what it takes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrupted19
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  As many people would know, Borat would be saying one thing right now. VERY NICE! Lol. It is games 
 like these that remind us why we started to play video games in the first place. Simple, yet thought 
 provoking. Fun, bur challenging. Hectic, and Time consuming lol. All the features that you would 
 want in a video game. THIS HAS IT!
  
  I guess I should start off with the Subspace Emissary. It should not be your main focus point for 
 the game, but the games beautiful level creations and designs make you come back for more. It is 
 a fun side route to get extra characters and to have fun without a group of friends.
  
  Classic Mode, there isn't much to say, because just like Super Smash Brothers and Super Smash Brothers 
 Melee, it is extremely fun, and always has ways to challenge you too. This is more fun than adventure 
 mode in my opinion.
  
  Obviously the strongest aspect to this game, Multiplayer Brawls. With four players the insanity 
 begins. This part of the geme is flawless, because of the levels, the characters, the items, the 
 assist trophies, the pokeballs, and everything else. This mode will keep you busy for years to 
 come. Plus Online.
  
  Online is just plain fun. That's all there is to it. You want a chance to show the world what you 
 have got, nows your chance to do it. I have not been beaten for online play yet. Message me for 
 my friend code. I would be happy to give it to you.
  
  Favorite Levels
  
  5. Corneria
  4. Lylat Cruise
  3. Hyrule
  2. Norfair
  1. Delfino Plaza
  
  Favorite Characters
 
  
  5. Metaknight
  4. Ike
  3. Samus
  2. Pit
  1. Zelda/Shiek
  
  Super Smash Brothers Brawl is in fact the best game that has ever been made! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imrlybord7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is bursting at the seams with content, but not all of it is really worth 
 your time. While that may have quite a negative connotatin, let me just say that I absolutely love 
 this game. But for it's multiplayer ONLY. The main single player portion, The Sub-Space Emissary, 
 is a poor attempt at turning a great fighter into a platformer. The player movement just isn't 
 cut out for platforming. Also, there isn't even an attempt at a cohesive story, just a bunch of 
 random events set to cut scenes. Ironically, the cut scenes are very well done, which makes the 
 lack of story a real shame. There are other single player aspects of Brawl, but the AI just isn't 
 powerful enough to make them great (that's not to say that the single player is never fun, though) . 
 However, as anyone who doesn't fill their ears with sand as a habit knows, you are buying this 
 game for its multiplayer. And this is where the game truly shines. Personally, I believe that the 
 very core gameplay is just slightly worse than that of Melee. The fighting is slower and less precise, 
 which leads to more frenetic brawls (no pun intended) instead of Melee's well choreographed Matrix 
 fights. However, like I said, it is just SLIGHTLY worse, nothing major. What makes Brawl better 
 than Melee is the amount of content. Plenty of great new characters enter the fray, and on top 
 of all of the new maps, you can also make your own via a simplistic yet functional map maker. There 
 is also the addition of online multiplayer, which I hear works very well, but my Nintendo Wifi 
 connection isn't very good, and I have yet to successgfully join a game. There are some disappointments 
 in the online matchmaking in terms of content. It is very bare bones. There is no stat tracking, 
 no communications, you are limited to short timed matches, you can't see anybody's name, and there 
 are no lobbies. However, I suspect that online with friends is much better, although there is still 
 a lack of communication (other than taunts) . But still, the most fun you will have with Brawl is 
 when a few friends come over and you just duke it out, which I did earlier today. This is so much 
 fun that it pretty much earns the whole 9.5 I gave it. My complaints are what kept it from the 
 10.
  P. S. Playing with the wiimote is torture. This game needs to be played with a classic controller 
 or, better yet, a Gamecube controller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chevydriver1123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo has lived up to its standards yet again. Just as I was excited when I saw the first trailer 
 back in 2006. I remember when Nintendo announced that the game was going to be delayed twice some 
 people balked at it but the delays were well intended. When I got it home today me and my brother 
 went right into the Subspace Adventure mode and let me tell you this is a very long Adventure I 
 still haven't completed it yet my hands were aching too much for playing it straight for eight 
 hours. I have yet to still tackle the online mode since this is my first Online Wii game but I'm 
 pretty sure that the online wont disappoint. The huge expanded character roster is perfect for 
 any Nintendo fan although a few of my favorites were left out but live and learn. The remixes of 
 old game music is excellent, my personal favorite is the remix of the Airship Theme from Super 
 Mario Brothers 3. Overall this game is worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packster
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  --- [Opening Comments] ---
  -The Smash Bros. Series has always been known for it's awesome multiplayer, from the N64 to the 
 GCN and now, the greatest installment in the series, and maybe just the greatest game I have played, 
 Super Smash Bros. Brawl was released.-
  
  --- [Gameplay] ---
  -Gameplay is key in everygame, and Super Smash Bros. Brawl nails the perfect shot. With 4 control 
 schemes, the Gamecube Controller, the Classic Controller, the Wii-Remote Sideways, and the Nunchuck 
 and Remote. I thought that the Nunchuck and Remote or anyother control scheme for that matter, 
 could compare to the gamecube, but I was wrong. It is awesome, amazing, and again, perfect.
  --- [10] ---
  
  --- [Graphics] ---
  -Easily the best looking Wii Game out there. It looks simply, 
 amazing, awesome textures and details, like Hair effects and Mario's jeans. Everything just looks 
 top notch and amazing. It runs so smoothly and the animations are crisp and look great. Everything 
 looks fantastic! And not to mention that the framerate never, NEVER drops.
  --- [10] ---
  
  --- [Value] ---
  -What can I say? The day I got it (March 9th, 12:01 am baby!) I never stopped 
 playing it, even for sleep, and I excpect this to be happening year round, for years to come, It 
 has online, Adventure mode which is fun and has awesome cutscenes, it has everything, stagebuilder, 
 you name it, virtual console demos, seriously, EVERYTHING.
  If I could give this a 100/10 I would, trust me.
  --- [10] ---
  
  --- [Sound] ---
  -Now, I 
 dont count sound towards the score, but I just had to add it to this game, I never to do anyother 
 review, but this game has the best soundtrack than anyother game in the world, seriously, it is 
 amazing and epic, and just plain awesome!
  
  --- [Tilt] ---
  -All around, this game is perfect, It has a million new features that would make this game worth 
 100 bucks, and hey, I would buy it for 100. The graphics are great, the gameplay is fast paced 
 and exciting, and the game all-around is the best thing I have ever played. I love it, and It will 
 last longer than the wii. Great Multiplayer, Online Mode, Stagebuilder, everything Nintendo does 
 to this game, is pure genius and better than anyone else could possibly do.
  
  [10]
  ----
  [10]
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: supardood
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros Brawl redefines the meaning of perfect. The game redefines the meaning of incredible 
 and expands the limits of fun to new horizons. Its flawless execution of bringing a massive array 
 of worlds into one experience creates a fighting game like no other, one that appeases every aspect 
 that could ever be hoped for on the Wii. The Super smash Bros series is based around ring-out KO 
 matches between renowned characters from a variety of games. Heroes and villains from Nintendo's 
 best games duke it out in an intense clash of up to four players. The character selection is varied 
 and satisfying in size; with over thirty unique and defined fighters, each bringing his/her own 
 attacks and fighting style. 
  But this time around, the game presents a staggering amount of game modes in addition to the versus 
 mode. It features an adventure platforming RPG- The Subspace Emissary, minigames like the Home-Run 
 Contest and Target Smash (which can now be played in co-op mode with two players) and a myriad 
 of addicting quirky add-ons like the Snapshots and Coin Toss. The Event Matches are clever and 
 fun; a list of difficult matches in which you have to defeat an enemy in a certain fashion or complete 
 an unusual mission. Classic Mode is there as always, but renewed and refreshed to perfection. 
 
  All in all, Super Smash Brothers Brawl is a beautiful and original game that soars to new heights 
 and executes every aspect with grace and dignity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: broncosfan375
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Finally the wait is over and we all have it. as you may know brawl is porobably th highest anticipated 
 game ever besides pong. does it live up to the hype? the answer is YES YES IT DOES! the best game 
 nintendo has made in their history is here. possibly game of 08? great adventure excellent new 
 items, online play, tons of new customization options, stage builder, old school demos, and literally 
 100s of hours of gameplay to complete, not only does it live up to expectations, but it is also 
 gonna be written into the history books, and if heaven is anything like the simpsons game, then 
 god is playing this game. A ten out of ten. since i am done but at minimum i need to come up with 
 more. great characters, amazingly fun stages, options for when there is a lot of people, but one 
 semi semi semis esi bad thing is friends codes, but it doesnt ruin anyhting for people who have 
 this game, and if you have a wii but not this game, what are you doing reading this review, you 
 should be out buying this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eternal_skillz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  After playing for only a couple hours, I can already tell you this game is almost perfect. It is 
 every Smash Bros. fan's dream. Excellent graphics, familiar yet tweaked combat, and a roster that 
 will keep us learning for quite some time are only a few of the gems to be found here. Personally, 
 the remixed Kid Icarus music makes this worth the price of admission, but I digress. 
  The gameplay is the same tried-and-true formula found in the other Smash Bros titles. And there 
 is a hint of throwback to the original game here (intros to levels, and the game speed has been 
 scaled back a tad from melee) . As expected, the music is top notch, and the level designs are some 
 that only Nintendo could think up. A great deal of nostalgia is to be found here, such as the levels 
 which mirror Super Mario Bros. It's great, because everywhere that there were hidden bricks in 
 the original will now yield items. 
  My only gripe is that a headset wasn't included with the game, so you can't talk smack online. 
 Again, this is my *ONLY* gripe. 
  
  If you liked Melee at all, you will LOVE brawl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TanyaLover
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  The long anticipated Super Smash bros sequel has been long looked at. With two date push backs, 
 it seemed as though the soon to be revolutionary game would never come. But here we are, with the 
 game in our hands. What more can I say, other than 'WOW!' ? Brawl is a game that will leave anyone 
 who comes in contact with it completely breathless in a pure amazement and joy. 
  
  Let me start with its gameplay. -- Brawl contains some of the most perfect gameplay ever found in 
 gaming history. It is precise, smooth, clean and executed with 100% perfection. You will find this 
 out as soon as you get used to the at-first difficult control scheme. The extra items and the amazingly 
 fun final smash were icing on the already perfect cake. If I may use the 'F' word in one case, 
 that it being the word 'flaw', I'd have to say the only one was the decently at times long loading 
 times. However, this tiny bruise was a needle in the haystack.
  
  Graphically, Brawl was a complete success. It has been significantly improved detail wise and luster 
 wise since Melee. Much more realism, with the essence of the cartoon, fantasy like feel. Not much 
 more to say here.
  
  Sounds -- sounds are quite important in a game, whether it be soundtrack, vocals, or surrounding 
 sounds. What did Brawl give for us in this category? Why, yes, the 'perfect' word comes to mind 
 again. Wonderful soundtrack music for the scenarios put you in the mood to smash. Characters have 
 a wider variety of dialog or 'hiya'/'umph' sounds. 
  
  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is such an achievement, that it should be called a sin to not own this 
 game if you own a Wii. I feel safe enough to say that Brawl is one of, if not, the best game I 
 have ever, and will ever play. Even if you are mildly into the Smash series, this game is a must 
 buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcgell
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  this is not a full review it is more of a first impression.
  
  after clocking little over 4 hours of game play I cannot say go out and buy this game for the wii, 
 but if you are one of the lucky many to have actually bought a wii then you have probably bought 
 this game already. 
  
  let me get this out of the way first I did not like the first two iterations of ths game for the 
 N64 and the game cube I found them annoying to play. that said brawl was actualy allot of fun to 
 play. 
  
  
  the one thing I could critique about the game is the fact that the motion controls with the wii 
 remote are disabled by default and once you enable them you can only use them to either jump or 
 replace the right anolog stick on the game cube control
  
  aside from that the game is still smash brothers and if I some how I got a kik out of it , then 
 it must be better that the previous ones in some way shape or form.
  
  bottom line:
  solid game, brings legitimate proof that Nintendo is here to compete with the other consoles 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StreetSurfer
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so here's the deal, unless you've been living under a rock for the past year you should know 
 that super smash bros. brawl just came out today. It's one of the most creative fighter games in 
 the market. Super Smash Bros. takes all the previous nintendo characters such as pokemon, link, 
 kirby, samus, zelda, and making his Brawl debut, Sonic (as well as other unlockable characters) ! 
 Then they take all those classic nintendo characters and have them duke it out. So you can have 
 mario facing link, or samus facing kirby, the possibilites are endless! In Brawl, they now have 
 a vast array of fighters to choose from (35 fighters and 15 secret unlockable fighters) . Super 
 Smash Bros. Brawl is just amazing when it comes to graphics and the plethora of possibilities. 
 There is now WIFI so you can duke it out with your friends or with strangers easily just by clicking 
 on the WIFi option and you will find yourself emerged in a battle for survival in just seconds! 
 Also, you can now finally create your own levels and share them with your friends. Taking pictures 
 in the middle of a fight also adds a plus to the gameplay. Speaking of gameplay, Super Smash Bros. 
 Braw's gameplay is just so easy that any person of any age can just pick up the wiimote, wiimote 
 and nunchuck, or the gamecube controller and have a blast (no pun intended) . The new and improved 
 adventure mode is just superb, it's definitely one of those short story modes that'll have you 
 beat the game in a matter of hours, but instead bring you a true story behind the "story mode". 
 Each little level will introduce you to a new character, each having their own business to tend 
 to, but eventually, when you pass that level, it will say " (So and so) has joined your team". This 
 is because, in the end, all the characters join forces to take down a single enemy (I will not 
 say because then it will spoil the surprise) . And even when you're done with adventure mode, it 
 doesn't leave more to be desired because there will still be more trophies to collect and more 
 stickers to find, along with the fact that you can still play with your friends online. The control 
 scheme is also great because you have the option to use either the wiimote (flipped horizontally) , 
 wiimote plus the nunchuck connected, or the gamecube controller, whichever control you choose to 
 use, they are all easy to use in their own right. All in all, Super Smash Bros. Brawl is a fantastic 
 game that is worth 50 bux and waiting out in the cold at 12 am in the morning for. The amount of 
 delays nintendo made turned out to be so worth it because if Guitar Hero 3 and Halo 3 were the 
 best games of 2007, then Super Smash Bros. Brawl is definitely the best game of 2008 and will be 
 an instant classic for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrIMm23
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best game for the wii! Nothing can beat this! The fighting is good and the new 
 characters are good! The only flaw with this game is the adventure mode, even with coop it is boring. 
 All you do is run levels kinda like the old mario bros and attack little enemies, no melees! The 
 wi fi is flawless and works like a charm no matter where you live. The graphics are very detailed, 
 so detailed that you can see the smallest stitch in marios overalls. They even took the graphics 
 of Link from the Twilight Princess and put him in the game. The levels may be small but have interesting 
 backrounds and are also highly detailed. So overall this game is better then every wii game and 
 half of the xbox360 and ps3 games out there. If you are thinking about getting this because of 
 the coop, dont believe the the hype just get it for the fun fighting multiplayer and online play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj-feltersnatch
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  The gaming community has been waiting for 2 years for this game. When the teaser trailer was announced 
 at e3, peoples jaws all over the world dropped. Well, the wait is over, brawl is here!
  
  Brawl is definitly the best smash bros yet, and probably the best game on the wii. Brawl has several 
 new features such as online, stage builder, final smashes, and assists trophies just name a few. 
 And the adventure mode, Subspace Emissary, is a giant leap forward for a single player mode in 
 SSB. Although SE (Subspace emissary) can get boring after awhile, it is a new twist to the gameplay 
 that people know as SSB. After playing SE for about a hour and a half, you will start to see the 
 same enemies over and over again. Not to mention that platforming gets old when its the same type 
 of stages and challenges. SE also offers a different way to unlock characters. Instead of having 
 to get a certain number of brawls to unlock characters, in SE you unlock characters by getting 
 them to join your party. SE can get stale, but it is still very playible, and should be played 
 by everyone.
  
  Online mode is also a new addition the SSBB. There is almost no lag at all, and you can usally 
 find a match quickly. One problem is that you cannot see peoples names while your fighting, and 
 you cant track them to add them to friends, or to play them again.
  
  Brawl mode is epic. Starting out with 21 of the 35 characters is nice way to start. The stages 
 are also great. There are so many different stages, with different strategies in each. There are 
 so many customizible options that you can make every brawl different and uniquie. On top of the 
 many stages, you can make your own. Although it may seem like there aren't enough peices to make 
 a stage, after making so many stages, you unlock more parts.
  
  SSBB is a great way to get into the smash bros series. Although the speed of the game has been 
 slightly reduced, the new additions more than make up for it. Go to your local game store and buy 
 it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaphack
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  I don't really know where to start with this review. This is the most fantastic game I've ever 
 played. It is now my new favorite game. I guess I'll just start naming the sections.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  I was in absolute awe at the graphics right from the intro movie.
  These are 
 the best graphics for any game on the Wii. Everything just looks so real and alive. All the character 
 models are absolutely fantastic. Even Diddy's Peanut Guns look real.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  The sound in Brawl is impeccable. All the sound effects fit perfectly with whatever they're being 
 applied too. The music is fantastic, and plentiful no doubt. With 304 songs you won't run out of 
 tunes during a fight in this game.
  
  Controls: 10/10
  I haven't tried the controls for the Wii Remote and Nunchuck yet. But I can say that the Gamecube 
 controls are just like Melee's, great. If you've played Melee then you should have no trouble using 
 the GC Controller with Brawl. In fact, that's the controller I recommend you use. All the characters 
 respond instantly and wonderfully with the controller. No slipping and sliding everywhere, no accidental 
 moves.
  
  Now, onto the one thing that keeps me from giving this game a perfect 10...... Oh, this isn't good. 
 I actually can't remember what that thing was. I'm not joking, it was the only fault with the game, 
 and it was so minor that I forgot what it was. Looks like this game IS perfect after all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kemar7856
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  YESSS another smash brothers I was very impressed with this game even though I been playing melee 
 since 2001... lol this game does deliver to all wii fans this is the game to own.
  
  Graphics-9 for wii this game is impressive but compared to the competiters meh
  
  Gameplay-10 
 for sure this game is nothing but fun and tons of features
  
  Sound-10! music in this game is amazing wow 
  
  Value-10! full replay value with online ou 
 will be plaing this for ears to come no dought.
  
  their are a few cons but their minor for most people but made me yell at the game
  
  -no leaderboards
 
  -communications
  -cant use custom levels online
  -no downloadable charecters -no friends list
  -awwww wii codes hate them so much
  
  In conclusion 
 brawl is a great game that anyone can respond to and is well worth buying with tons of multplayer 
 features and replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenkashijd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is a brawling, battling, action-packed video game that features a varied 
 roster of characters for four-player simultaneous melees! Use your Wii Remote and Nunchuck controls 
 to deal serious damage to your opponents and win the game! This Wii entry in the popular series 
 features a number of new additions, including an Adventure Mode (with co-op play) , a wealth of 
 new characters and stages, and online combat for multiple players to face off against each other 
 from anywhere!
  
  Brawl begins with a cinematic opening which introduces many of the trademark characters in the 
 game. The quality of the render is pristine and the orchestrated music that accompanies helps set 
 up the mood of the experience. Once you click over to the main menu, you are given several choices, 
 including Group, Solo, Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, Vault, Options and Data. Interestingly, the interface 
 is completely incompatible with the Wii remote's infrared pointer; rather, if you choose to play 
 Brawl with the peripheral, you hold it classic style and use the D-Pad to navigate. (Amazingly, 
 you can't even shoot at the end credits using infrared, which is unfortunate.) The different menu 
 selectables aren't hard to follow, but we'll elaborate all the same. Group is designed for local 
 multiplayer matches. Pick your characters, choose a stadium and have at it. Solo represents the 
 single-player classic or adventure modes. In vault, you will find collectable trophies and stickers, 
 your photo album ,the challenge board, instant replays you've saved, masterpieces (which houses 
 classic Nintendo games) , chronicle (a list of past and present Nintendo titles) and, of course 
 the stage builder. 
  
  Very likely, the majority of your time with Nintendo's new fighter will be spent in the Group Brawl 
 mode, which houses the four-player compatible local multiplayer mode. Here, you can choose from 
 30-plus characters, including familiar mascots like Mario, Luigi, Peach, Bowser and Samus, but 
 also the likes of Lucas, Captain Olimar and the Pikmin, Pit from Kid Icarus, Zelda / Sheik, Ike, 
 the Pokemon Trainer, Captain Falcon, Sonic the Hedgehog, Toon Link, Marth and Solid Snake. Unique 
 move sets have been created for the majority of these characters so that, for example, Pikachu 
 will execute a variety of different maneuvers from Captain Meta Knight, and so forth. If you've 
 played any Smash Bros. title before, you already know all of this, we know, but supposing you're 
 new to the franchise, Brawl is, like its predecessors, a seemingly simple fighter with a lot of 
 hidden depth. While you have only a handful of different attacks (including variations) per character, 
 you can do quite a lot with each character's skills and great timing is more important than in 
 most other fighters on the market. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: battle231
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  It has much better game play and graphics then the other ones in the series and many characters 
 were unique in their own way It has a long gamplay and can keep people entertained for hours to 
 come and shows a huge competion when it comes to online gameplay It many new world can show a fun 
 brawl especially with the stage editor mode that allows you to make you own stage so you don't 
 have to go to a different stage every time you build one This is a very fun game can show enterainment 
 for the whole family. It keeps some originallity from the older series making it easier for old 
 fans to pick up on the game quick with the additon of new items the game can be more fun then there 
 is final smashes where each caracter uses his or her own unique ablitys and shows a massive force 
 on his opponents so it is a fun game to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoparAddict
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game, for the Wii, I have ever played. It's a game anyone can jump right into 
 without knowing the basic controls. There are several modes in which you and your friends can play. 
 Some of my personal favorites in this game are: Subspace Emissiary, in which you save the world 
 from all of the nefarious, (bad guys) Nintendo characters. It is very fun and highly addictive. 
 Another one of my favorite modes is Brawl, which is when you go head to head against your friends 
 on the same console. There are several new features that have been added to the game that surprised 
 me, a lot. Some examples of this are the featured virtual console titles that you can play for 
 a few minutes, like Super Metroid and Starfox 64. I was very happy to see these games because it 
 gave me second thoughts about buying a few of them from the Virtual Console. Moving on, another 
 new feature added to Brawl, is the level creator. I liked this a lot. You can make a level based 
 upon what you think is cool. You can also use songs like Encounter from MGS, which is great because 
 I'm a huge MGS fan. Now to the wi-fi. The wi-fi is incredible in Brawl. I have played past games 
 with terrible lag, like DBZBT3, and I was very dissappointed, but Brawl was 100x better online. 
 The only downside to Brawl is that you cannot play custom maps that you have created on wi-fi with 
 your friends. Overall, Super Smash Bros. Brawl for the Wii is excellent, I suggest you go and purchase 
 a copy today.
  
  Score:
  Audio 5/5
  Graphics 5/5
  Game-play 5/5
  
  Overall Score 5/5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Green-Fenril
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  With 3 delays before the release of this game, Brawlers were hoping this was the one title to play 
 for decades. They were right
  
  This is by far one of the best games for the Wii since Mario Galaxy. You got your standard roster 
 of With endless replay value, tons of unlockables, Wi-Fi brawling, and a soundtrack you want to 
 listen to over and over again, tons of surprises (not including the introduction of Snake from 
 Metal Gear and Sonic the Hedgehog) you will find this game being played for years on end...
  
  ... or until the next Smash Bros game comes out.
  
  Vets of the series should feel right 
 at home, while new brawlers will get used to the controls very quickly
  
  For every Wii owner, not getting this game should be considered a crime, you owe it to yourself 
 and your friends to get this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeisaniceguy
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  It was the day before and we had got about two feet of dumb snow before Gamestop called and told 
 us there would be no midnight launch. I was shocked but I could hold one more day of waiting. After 
 that I had a good sleep with dreams about Brawl. But they weren't good dreams about it they were 
 saying that it would be moved back three years . It was a nightmare, after words I woke up and 
 know that it was just a dream and that today was the day I would see the light of a knew era. I 
 got to Gamestop to find a line just as big as the midnight launches for the Halo series. So its 
 I walk up to the cashier lady and hand her the money hen she gives me Brawl and a game guide along 
 with a Mario Galaxy coin. (Don't ask) So I leave to find out that I'm not aloud to play it because 
 my dad says its Sunday and I don't play games on Sunday. But my dad said I could play for 30 minutes. 
 So I did and it was freaking awesome!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8bit7055
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Okay, pinch me; I must be dreaming! 
  This has gotta be the best game for Nintendo so far! You know the old story... damage your opponents 
 and fly them off the field, well, I must say the whole idea is looking bigger and better that ever. 
 I was lucky enough to get one, what with the popularity, it was the world's most wanted game for 
 almost a year! If you have Super Smash Bros Brawl, consider yourself one of the luckiest teens 
 on the planet.
  What really hooked me is everything new and exciting, like the final smashes, Pit, Snake, Sonic, 
 Wario, and all the other new characters, the awesome new courses, stage builder, Subspace Emissary, 
 and that's only a percentage of it all! But the thing that I enjoy most right now, and forever 
 will, are just the gool ol' brawls, it's awesome, what else do I have to say? The wait since May 
 2006 was definitely worth the wait!
  On second thought, don't pinch me, I'm having too much fun! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariofan22
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Brothers has always been an in depth and ridiculously addicting series: but the newest 
 installment takes "addiction" to a whole new level. 
  
  The gameplay is simple, but amazingly in depth. One finds themselves sitting in front of the TV 
 for hours when it feels only like minutes. Battles are quickly paced and always exciting, never 
 boring, but sometimes frustrating -- and when it's frustrating, you just try harder.
  
  The unlockables really make this game. From musical scores to original courses, you never get tired 
 of seeing windows break and getting prizes. And there's lots of prizes -- chances are, the normal 
 gamer may never unlock all of them.
  
  Most surprising to me was the entertaining gameplay found in the Subspace Emissary -- I thought, 
 that so long as you chose the right characters, the platforming was entertaining, and beating up 
 the Primids never got tiring.
  
  The whole presentation is perfect. The fighting feels perfect. My only problem with the game was 
 my online experience, but that was because my own internet went down -- not Nintendo's.
  
  This is by far the best in the series, and I'll be playing it for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BSantamorena
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  As usual the best mode is Vs. with a friend. Hours have passed by in what seemed like seconds. 
 The fights are still super fast and fun as ever. I have not had this much fun gaming since... well 
 the release of Melee. The new characters are great the new controls not as good as the classic 
 but luckily they are still usable. The Subspace Emissary is a great addition to smash. It's not 
 the best game ever made but it is fun and you get to interact with all the characters is a long 
 adventure. Of course beating the adventure allows the match you have been waiting for since the 
 Sega Genesis arrived and gives you Sonic. Mario vs Sonic for real in a fight finally is here. I 
 personally find Mario easier to win with but Sonic is fun to play. This is easily the best game 
 on the Wii so far and with Super Mario galaxy, Metroid Prime 3, and Zelda: The Twilight Princess 
 that is saying alot. The addition of online play is huge too it makes the best feature of the game, 
 multiplayer, available at anytime even when you are alone. Still wish they included voice chat 
 like 360 though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexsept1994
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  its higly addicting its like a magnet, it wont let you eat! buy it, its defenitly the best of the 
 world history! my favorite character is bowser, alot of people think bowser is not good, but its 
 all about hardcore attacks, if your good at dodging attacks but good at attacking bowser is for 
 you!! this game is infinite theres a whole lot of things you could do, you could play online, locally, 
 adventure, subspace emissery (like campain) , co-op, and even the little extras are extremely fun, 
 like getting trophies, playing the demos u win, making your own custom stage, you could also download 
 the best stages that people, your stage might be chosen as one of the best ones, dont wait GO!!! 
 bring you friends over and play. its one of the best desitions ive ever done in my entire life, 
 make sure you bring friends itlll be way funner, evem without friends it still increadibly fun 
 but with friends it more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malachi_27
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Melee bore me after a long while of playing and unlocking everything that matters. 
 Brawl, thankfully, changes all of that. Brawl brings everything that was good, and bad, from Melee, 
 and more! 
  
  Gameplay is exactly the same, but this time, you have four different ways of controlling the game. 
 I like the Classic Controller, personally because the buttons are in a neat fashion and easier 
 to access. The thing that was troublesome in Melee was that the platforming elements aren't as 
 tight as they should be. Brawl brings back platforming and the annoying jumping elements as well. 
 Other than that, everything is very tight and works perfectly.
  
  Graphics aren't too much different from the first game. Some parts are just plain ugly. The backgrounds 
 aren't too much to look at either. Though colorful, they lack beauty.
  
  What is wonderful in Brawl is that there is just about an unlimited amount of things to do in this 
 game. You may battle with friends; battle online (my personal favorite) ; unlock many characters 
 and stages; get music, trophies, artwork, and more in the vault; there is also an interesting adventure 
 mode called "Subspace Emissary." Not to mention the "Events" (short mission events) are back too! 
 Many said that in Melee there was an endless amount of things to do, which I never believed, but 
 in Brawl, there are so many things to do, that it's not funny! I found it such a disappointment 
 because of the character roster. I don't think there are enough characters or interesting and unexpected 
 characters in Brawl. I would also like to point out the online isn't what I expected it to be . 
 . . though still fun. When playing with four people online, there is a high possibility you will 
 experience lag. The lack of communication and control of the servers you want is a complete drag. 
 .?
  
  Anyone that loved the other Super Smash Brothers games, fighting games, or long-lasting fun games, 
 Brawl is the game you should be checking out. If you are unfamiliar with Nintendo and like the 
 old-fashioned Virtua Fighter-esqe fighting games, you will most likely not enjoy this game whatsoever. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hue14
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Woah. Woah. Woah! Where do I start? Well, lets start by saying one thing and making it loud and 
 clear. Super Smash Bros. Brawl for the Nintendo Wii is the best video game ever in the history 
 of video games. Hmm... was that a good way to nail everything down quick and easy? Hopefully because 
 I don't have any other points of authority to brush up on this review, because I cannot describe 
 in words how good of a game Brawl truly is. It's like Nintendo burped out a god called a video 
 game. Enough, enough. If you are reading this review than you know how good this game really is, 
 but if you don't have the game than get off your butt and go buy it! Anyway you are probably asking 
 me WHY you need to go buy it. Well there really is many, many, MANY reasons! First lets start by 
 the online player, stage designer, new characters including some third-party characters, awesome 
 new stages, sweet new items, cool new features such as stickers, Subspace Emissary, which is basically 
 like a story mode. Point is that this is The. Best. Game. Ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarthMan7
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  This game is one for the record books. It packs all the fun a Nintendo game can offer and has great 
 multiplayer. This game is fun 24/7. It is fun playing alone but the real brawl happens whith a 
 group of 3-4 friends. This game comes with a great new roster. This includes ike, marth, dk, mario, 
 luigi, and many other of your favorite charaters. There are 35 charaters in all. It has a wide varity 
 of games to. From the first Mr. game and watch to the new ones like Solid Snake. This game also 
 comes with a new feature called stage builder. It lets you make your own stages. Whith this feature 
 it can make this game new every day. So if you want a game that makes you want to keep getting 
 more. Than what are you waiting for? Buy this game. It is the best game since Ocarina Of Time. 
 This game is what all Nintendo fans have dreamed about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macrules_640
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  After almost two delay dates Super Smash Bros Brawl is finally here and does it live up to the 
 hype? In a sense yes this game does live up to the hype and does some more after words. Super Smash 
 Bros Brawl is one of the biggest games of this year and it delivers on it's promise as a game that 
 people will continue to play up until Nintendo releases it's next console. The best part of this 
 game has to be the way Nintendo has packed a lot of content onto a single DVD disc and yet it plays 
 great and it's one of the easiest fighting games to pick up and play. Nintendo has made some changes 
 to characters since Melee and they fixed the problem with the clone characters, but some of them 
 are clones, but yet Nintendo managed to make them play different from their counterparts and it 
 makes the game fresh and it's great and I just picked this game up only a few hours ago and I'm 
 not even close to unlocking anything in it and I think Nintendo did a great job with it. The new 
 adventure mode called Subspace Emissary is a side scrolling adventure game where you go though 
 side scrolling stages and it works for the most part and I think it does a better job that adventure 
 mode from Melee. But the real place this game shines is the Multiplayer element where you and three 
 other friends duke it out in a free for all and SSBB has online as well and even though I can't 
 get online with my Wii I have heard from other people that the online element is great and this 
 is hardly any slowdown which is a good thing. The graphics in SSBB are some of the best the Wii 
 can produce and every character looks great and I have heard a lot of people say this is just an 
 enhanced version of Melee which they are wrong as SSBB brings a lot of new stuff to the table and 
 includes the final smash which is a finishing move for characters and Nintendo was nice enough 
 to include two third party characters Snake and Sonic who fit in the game very good and they are 
 a great addition to the brawl roster. Throw in a great soundtrack and a level editor and other 
 great things and you have a game that is worthy of game of the year and one of the best reasons 
 to own a Wii.
  
  Graphics: 10
  This is the best looking game on the Wii and it shows that the Wii can produce some great graphics 
 if a company tries.
  
  
  Gameplay: 10
  A lot of depth and other opinions will help SSBB remain as one of the top games of the Wii.
  
 
  
  Controls: 9.5
  The Wiimote and Nuchuck controls don't work the best so go for the Classic controller and Gamecube 
 controller since they seem to work the best in the game.
  
  Sound: 10
  Brawl has one of the biggest soundtracks in a game and all the songs in the game fit perfectly 
 into the game. 
  
  Overall: 10
  This is the best game to come out for the Wii and if you don't get this game you're denying yourself 
 a great game and experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psyball
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  I havent been playing it for very long but from what i can tell, its certainly is a solid piece 
 of the series. It doesent deserve the perfect 10's that the hundreds of countless fanboi's will 
 give it, but its still a very good game. The thing I was most dissapointed about though was the 
 lack of connection you had with your opponents while playing online, there is really no why to 
 communicate with them and once the battle is over you will never see them again.
  The game is more balanced than it has ever been and it nice, although there will probably be the 
 odd whiner complaining about some minor speed and jumping changes.
  Im sure most people are aware of the roster by this point, and i think they made some nice additions 
 to the characters. The only one i and im sure many more people have issue with, is the nintendo 
 operating maching R. O. B. 
  But I digress, Overall solid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fdisod
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  this is truly a great game well worth the wait, it is the best out of the series BY FAR, don't get 
 me wrong Melee was great but, this is so good, LETS start off about the deepness of this game it 
 has more modes then you can shake a stick at. space emissary is fun especially cause it co-op play 
 with a friend for hours. What about the characters, snake come on thats so sweet and wolf. i could 
 keep going about different characters but i won't .graphically the game is good it raises the standards 
 for the Wii. Nice game overall a must have for anyone especially nintendo fans. i give this game 
 all 10's. plus the levels are pure GOLD most are very fun to play at and it was smart to put some 
 of Melee's levels in like Hyrule, But all levels is graphically pleasing. Fun for all ages that 
 want want to Brawl 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jlord149
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  Ok. Now, my rate consist in a the features acumulative score. the beginning score is 5.0.
  
  * The game have 35 different characters for chosing. Melle finished with 25 different characters. 
 This time start with 21! And a bunch of newcomers! Wow!
  +0.5
  
  * Almost as much stages as characters in the game! This exoand the game's variety. +0.5
  
  
 * Adventure Mode is now longer than ever. Expirience the best mixture of a history involving all 
 characters together! Taste it! Love it! Enjot it! +1.0
  
  * An unique STAGE BUILDER! Yes, you can build your own stages this time! This is sick! Wow! Now 
 I love it more than ever! +1.0
  
  * Are you tired of playing with the Computer Players, or have passed Aventure Mode already? Want 
 to play with a real person, but don't have anyone around? What about if I tell you that you can 
 take the battle online with the game's Wi-fi Connection Support? Yes! For real! Fight with people 
 all over the world. +1.5
  
  * A bad new now: you can't use Stage Builder's Satges in Wi-fi battles. Such a disapinting thing, 
 but well, anything could work smothly... -1.0
  
  * Each character have 6 different colors! Some have even more! Wow! For likes were made the colors! 
 +0.5
  
  * Wel, each time you fight, the battle will be different. Believe me! No matter how much you try, 
 the game expirience will be different. +1.0
  
  * The game is in Dual-Layer Disc, for is incredibly big size. Bad. Problems with the console's 
 Disc Reader. -0.5
  
  * Up to four different controllers for use! ... +0.5
  
  I would like to mention a lot of positive things in the game, but i already reached the 10.0. But 
 if i could, this game's score would be about 15. Imagine!
  
  SUPER SMASH BROS. BRAWL, the 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wael_rajab
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  This game is finally out and i got it first when i first played it with my brother it was so addictive 
 we played at least 30 rounds im playing right now acutialy.
  
  the control scheme is good no censored stuff in this game you can use 4 remotes that is just amazing 
 i have tried all of them and my favrote is the wii controller and numchuck but all the others are 
 good to. Online Play is magnificent i have played some people already and they have already got 
 used to it but i beet them obviously.
  
  I recommend this game to everybody that has a wii, anybody who doesnt i feel sorry for them because 
 this is just the biggest game in the world now and you have to have it.
  
  Also the best thing is you can save pictures and videos and bring them to your frreinds house and 
 watch them you also can make your own levels and play with them or play at a freinds house 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  I'm not going to lie the last time I play a smash bros game was when it originally came out for 
 the Nintendo 64. The reason for that is because at the time I was a big hardcore PS2 gamer and 
 when Melee came out it was for the GameCube which I never picked up because I was too busy playing 
 games that came out for the PS2. But I'm glad I got another Nintendo system and the Wii brought 
 me back because of all the old nostalgic games that are on the Virtual console. Ok back to Super 
 Smash Bros Brawl. 
  
  This game is jam packed with content you have 35 unlock and hidden players to play with and over 
 40 playable maps to choose from. You also have a storyline which I know some of you will play but 
 the main reason for you to pick up this game is for the multiplayer, which is playing with 4 friends 
 all up against each other. Also if you like you can always take it online for the first time ever 
 on a smash bros game. 
  
  Now the controls haven't changed since the original smash bros for the Nintendo 64 so it's pretty 
 simple to pick up and play. You're basically just smashing your opponent as much as you can until 
 their percentage is high enough to blast them off the stage. All the characters have their special 
 moves and simple attacks but there are some characters that are more powerful than others so the 
 game isn't as balance as you think. It all depends what character you're fighting with. 
  
  Also we have a lot of new characters making their appearance for the first time two of my favorites 
 are Snake from Metal Gear Solid and Sonic. These two are hidden characters that you will have to 
 play to unlock later on in the game. The graphics are by far the most beautiful I've seen on the 
 Nintendo Wii and the game is as smooth as you want it to be a 60 fps. You will also get the silky 
 smooth framerate at 60 playing online which is great news to know. 
  
  If you're an old school gamer like myself this game will bring back some good memories. It did 
 for me when I first pop it in my system to play it. There's not one bad thing to say about this 
 game. It's a great game to have and to play if you own a Nintendo Wii. Go out and buy it NOW!!!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link_0f_Hyrule
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  This game is great, and here is my review of this game. 
  
  Gameplay 10/10: 
  Playing this game "is" addictive, in fact I played it 8 hours straight non-stop. It's probably 
 because of the gameplay. Lets start of with items. The items are very insane, just pick em up and 
 let em do their thing, in my opinion I like the cracker launcher; walking around with a giant bazooka 
 that shoots out explosive crackers. Another fun thing is each characters moves, there is not one 
 character that will not be fun to play as. Each character has their different styles, here they 
 are: Stealth, Glide, Speed, Strength, and Range. In my opinion the glider (pit, metaknight, etc.) 
 are the most useful, because most stages are very big and its very useful to glide around. 
  
  Sound 10/10: 
  Not much to say except that the music in each stage fits the stage perfectly, 
 and also I like the fact that you can collect soundtracks in battle. 
  
  Online Play 10/10: 
  Well, I am pretty good with King Dedede and we kick ass online. Online gameplay 
 is a big advantage because you get to fight other people besides friends. Also, anyone gamespot 
 that wants to fight me lemme know! 
  
  Graphics 10/10: 
  They are just good. The details on each character (especially Link) are great, it just makes the 
 character more realistic. 
  
  Overall Rating 10/10: 
  SUPER! AMAZING! WOW! GASP! 
  
  
  Hope this helps, 
  Link_of_Hyrule 
  
  -------------------------NOW GO GET YOURSELF A 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmashBrawlerBoy
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  I've played hundreds of thousands of games, and I've played on all the systems and played their 
 major games, whether it be that I own them or I played them at a friend's house. I know how high 
 the bar is for making a game above the rest... and Brawl has certainly done that, and then some. 
 There are literally thousands and thousands of things to do in this game, all of them so addicting. 
 Even if you don't like multiplayer games (who doesn't) , you could still get this game just for 
 its soundtrack! Just for the fact that you can collect awesome trophies! Just for the fact of all 
 the thousands of other things that you can do in this game, another example is the MasterPiece 
 games. This game is a manditory requirment for all those that have a Wii, and then those that don't. 
 Get a Wii, and buy this game. If you have a Wii, then go get this game in half an hour, when it 
 is officially released. So many amazing characters- Lucario, Sonic, Snake, DeDeDe (I know it's 
 King DeDeDe, I just like calling him DeDeDe better) , Ike, Marth, Samus and Zero Suit, and a plentyful 
 more. I said words can't describe it, and this review didn't even touch on basically and literally 
 anything. Brawl is huge, SUPERIOR, Outstanding, and maybe even the closest a game has ever come 
 to PERFECT. I can't even try to cover even 1/1000 of what this game has to offer. Don't pass this 
 one up. You'll regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingChainz31684
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  Its hard to even take away the time to do a review. I am making this one sweet and short. The game 
 looks good especially hooked up to the HD.
  The roster is much bigger than in the past and you can tell they really seemed to try and keep 
 things pretty even i like several of the characters at this point. The levels are numerous not 
 to mention you can make custom levels. The in game levels are very elaborate and excellent. Its 
 the first game for any system in a while that i really don't see myself being able to put down. 
 I logged hundreds of hours into SSBM and i have a feeling that number will be dwarfed with this 
 game being bigger and better. If you didn't pre order you should really find a way to get it. It 
 seems to me that it was super worth the wait. I feel like i have just scratched the surface playing 
 with family on VS. but all the different modes and different ways to play just brings more to each 
 match than ever before. 
  
  I have seen games worse than this get higher scores for sure but 9.5 isn't anything to complain 
 about but as far as a fighting game goes this is as perfect as perfect gets to this point in Video 
 gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianack96
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  I went to the mignight release last night waiting for a good game. Instead I got a great game. 
 The graphics are very good, the controls are very easy, the diffculty is simple. This is a very 
 good fighting game and it does not get boring. There are several new things such as Smash Balls 
 or Online. But I have not quite yet found how to get online to work yet. The multiplayer is better 
 then Halo's by far. This is a great game and it will sure advance the wii. This game does not get 
 old. It has co-op. Also there are so much more charachters to this game then melee. You can even 
 play on stages from Melee. This is bassicly just Melee and a new SSB put together into an amazing 
 game. It has a stage builder where you can build levels and play on them. I don't know why they 
 delayed this game so very long but it goes much further than a 9.5. I gave this game a ten out 
 of ten. Better than all the other wii games out right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  I never played a Smash Bros. Game until now. (Yes I tell the truth) So for my first ever smash 
 experience comes brawl and what a brawl it is. The games graphics for the Wii.... are phenomenal 
 and are so impressive it can make an army of GameCubes cry like babies. I'm not going to go into 
 too much detail because if your like me you read about all the hundreds of previews and reviews 
 of this game by now so let me carry on to the sound. The sound is a treasure all in its own. Nintendo 
 put so much hard work and energy into the sound you will hear nothing much sweet classic Nintendo 
 bliss when you start the game up so from the very beginning you're in big n heaven. The list of 
 characters spans over 30 big n names from the past including my personal favorite. Sonic! and some 
 guy named snake. The controls are tight and ofcourse vary from one of the many controller options 
 you have. Since I never played the GameCube version I'm sticking with my Wii Classic controller. 
 The fun factor is off the roof and is why the smash games get so much praise; the multiplayer just 
 can't be beat. The online department needs to be patched and patched quickly for the lag is too 
 overbearing to even stay in a match when you fight others that are not your friends. Overall this 
 game gets a 9.5/10 for outstanding visuals and funtastic fun factor. Just wish the lag can be sorted 
 out and by the why Nintendo "WHERES THE VOICE SUPPORT" get with the times. The game is great, go 
 out and buy it now.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Expo_Smacko
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  Wow!
  This game is as good as I was hoping it would be. So much better then the classic and so many more 
 characters to unlock and play.
  I waited in line last night at Wal-Mart to get this game. Came home and started to play it and 
 I must say I could not stop playing it. It is so much fun, playing with friends or not.
  
  The graphics are improved and looks awesome on a HDTV.
  
  Online play is also good, I like 
 it because if you don't have friends to play with you can at least play it with other people around 
 the world.
  
  The characters in the game that you start with are good, the graphics and models of the characters 
 also look 400x better then any of the other games. The maps are awesome, its cool that you can 
 also create your own maps, the downside to that is you can't use them online.
  
  
  So..
  If you are a brawl fan and love the old series you will LOVE this game.
  I would suggest 
 anyone who has a Wii go buy this game ASAP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: persia316
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  Let's get to the point. Smash Bros Brawl has the same gameplay with new characters (Solid Snake 
 & Sonic the Hedghog) , stages & graphics. You have events just like in melee & the same feel of 
 excitment when playing with friends. The single player mode it longer than Melee as well. Now for 
 the new stuff. Build you're own stages. My fav the new Final Smash witch is like a super move for 
 each character. You break this item that looks like the Smash Bros icon & you get this cool looking 
 super. If you saw trailers then its the one that Mario shoots fire balls like Goku's Kamehameha 
 or the one that like slashes multi times & the triforce apears. But the main featuere is ONLINE! 
 Yes Smash Bros Brawl is online with up to 4 players & no lagging what so ever. The controls are 
 great cause you can use the Wii remote sideways, the Wii remote with the nunchuck (no you don't 
 move the remote to attack just the bottons) the classic controller or the gamecube controller. 
 Nintendo did a great job giving use the option to choose what controller to play with. I love the 
 Smash Bros series & I love Brawl. Thanks Nintendo for a game that I'll be playing for months & 
 even years since I still play the original & Melee till this day. If you own a Wii then you must 
 buy this game or Pikachu & Peach will come to you're house & kick you're butt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_ObSeSsIoN
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  This game is Freakin awesome, it should cost two times more than Rock Band, but lets just be glad 
 it doesnt, anyway this game has everything you could ever want in Super Smash Bros. Its amazing, 
 its fun, and lets not forget, all of the new characters, if you havent learned already there are 
 35 fighters and each has a new, awesome Final Smash which for ALMOST everyone is an absolute K. O., 
 along with all of that there are over 70 stages including a-few from Super Smash Bros. Melee. And 
 there are literally over 100 new collectible trophies and stickers. This game is perfect for all 
 Super Smash Bros. Veterans and newcomers, I know everyones going to enjoy this one. Bottom line, 
 if you havent havent bought this game yet, stop what youre doing (even if its reading this review) AND 
 GO BUY THIS GAME!!!!! It is definitely worth your time AND money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vipsanius
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  Sure it's fun to have various classic character's fighting each other with your friends and in 
 on line matches... The graphics are cool and design is well made, and those little cut scenes of 
 some attacks are cool too... and it's really nice to have a game that's total chaos...
  Tons of character's for you to choose and a decent amount of levels for you to play with... costum 
 games however can't be played online... which is pretty sad.. But since it's for WII we can't ask 
 for much more... I would recommend this game if you had lot's of friends to play with... it's much 
 more enjoiable if you play with somebody that with yourself, ecpecially with this game...
  But this kind of games usually get boring after a while because it's allways the same maps or you 
 just get tired of the brawls.. it's not the first time games like this are made i find that the 
 power stone games for dreamcast are much alike with this one.. well i can say that this game is 
 awesome to play with your friends, if you play it alone you'll just get tired of playing it...
 
  to those who have a WII i would sugguest you to buy it since it's so much better than other WII 
 games...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razorbak1986
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 9, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  There were a few things I hoped would get in that didn't - and that's the only reason I don't give 
 it a PERFECT score. But really, for those that pick up the game without the 2 years of waiting 
 and being fed by Sakurai's inconsistent mix of really good and really bad updates, it's earns a 
 perfect score. Only a few hours convinced me that it is everything that Melee was and so much more. 
 In the end, the developers thought of everything. The game is so customizable that there is absolutely 
 no end to the things you can do. This game is perfect for playing with friends, playing alone, 
 or playing on-line. You can pick it up as a beginning gamer and get into it right away, but there 
 is no end improving and perfecting you're Brawling abilities for those of you who've been with 
 this series since the N64 days. You can spend an infinite amount of hours playing this game, and 
 it will never get old. This game is a good enough reason to buy a Wii if you don't already have 
 one. And if you do have one, then you should really already have this game. You're missing out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Da_Meter
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  This game is greatly the biggest Wii game i've ever played. I've already unlocked 3 characters 
 (not trying to rush) and it's really addicting. It never gets boring. The graphics, sounds and 
 music, and story mode are awesome. This game is endless (at the momnet) . Every character (including 
 clones) is unique. This game is fun and deffinetly a must have for the Wii. It is a great party 
 game and I love that you can use the Wiimote, Wiimote and Nunchuck, Classic Controller, and Gamecube. 
 i'm pretty sure most vets are using the GCN controller. If you played the previous version of the 
 game you'll definetly fall in love with this game. There are 35 Characters and 40 something stages 
 and that creates a large diversity in the game. With some many characters and stages there are 
 really endless possibilities. I doubt I'll be bored anytime soon. This game is really really really 
 really really fun. I actually typed this review with one hand because my controller is in my other 
 hand lawl. I bet if you ask anyone else who owns this game I'm pretty sure they said it is addicting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webproserv
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 25, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  I never played a Smash Bros. Game until now. (Yes I tell the truth) So for my first ever smash 
 experience comes brawl and what a brawl it is. The games graphics for the Wii.... are phenomenal 
 and are so impressive it can make an army of GameCubes cry like babies. Im not going to 
 go into too much detail because if your like me you read about all the hundreds of previews and 
 reviews of this game by now so let me carry on to the sound. The sound is a treasure all in its 
 own. Nintendo put so much hard work and energy into the sound you will hear nothing much sweet 
 classic Nintendo bliss when you start the game up so from the very beginning youre in big 
 n heaven. The list of characters spans over 30 big n names from the past including my personal 
 favorite. Sonic! and some guy named snake. The controls are tight and ofcourse vary from one of 
 the many controller options you have. Since I never played the GameCube version I'm sticking with 
 my Wii Classic controller. The fun factor is off the roof and is why the smash games get so much 
 praise; the multiplayer just cant be beat. The online department needs to be patched and 
 patched quickly for the lag is too overbearing to even stay in a match when you fight others that 
 are not your friends. Overall this game gets a 9.5/10 for outstanding visuals and funtastic fun 
 factor. Just wish the lag can be sorted out and by the why Nintendo "WHERES THE VOICE SUPPORT" 
 get with the times. The game is great, go out and buy it now.
  
  Graphics: 9.0/10 
  Sound: 8.5/10 
  Fun Factor: 8.0/10 
  Online: 3.0/10
  Gameplay: 7.0/10
  
  OVERALL: 8.0/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CptSquirrly1091
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 7:17 am PT
Review:  After the 2 year wait since confirmation, Its finally here! Super Smash Bros Brawl is by FAR one 
 of the BEST games out there! Actually.... in my perspective as a guy with all the next-gens and 
 portables... this IS the best game.... EVER! 
  
  There were many things i noticed as soon as i put in the disc...
  One of those things were how 
 AMAZING the graphics were!!
  I thought Super Mario Galaxy's graphics were awesome but *bam* Shot that out of the water fast!
 
  
  I also noticed that controls aren't that hard to get use to at all....
  I play with the Wii-mote and nunchuck myself, and sometimes even the Gamecube control...
  Oh, 
 and if your reading his and wonndering "what the hell is the easiest control option!?" i cant help 
 you... Other people have different styles....
  
  Last but not least, the music in this game is AMAZING!!!
  I could download every single song 
 on my i-pod and listen to them all day if i wanted to!! 
  
  I havent goten to Wi-Fi yet considering the 1st thing i did was Adventure Mode... but I'll be sure 
 to write a review on how great THAT is too ^-^
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 7:15 am PT
Review:  What can be said about Super Smash Brothers Brawl that isn't already known? And quite honestly, 
 if you need a review to determine if you're going to buy Brawl or not, then that's just foolish. 
 To need a review to convince yourself to buy Brawl is like saying you're going to contemplate breathing 
 air, but nevertheless here it goes.
  
  What is the core basis of Super Smash Brothers Brawl? Nintendo characters kicking the crap out 
 of each other, pretty simple right? Among the starting combatants going at it this time are classics 
 such as Mario, Donkey Kong, Link, Samus, Kirby, Fox, Pikachu, Zelda, Peach, Yoshi, Ice Climbers, 
 and Bowser. New comers to the starting roster include Diddy Kong, Pit, Meta Knight, Pokemon Trainer, 
 Ike, King Dedede, Wario, Olimar, and Lucas. Along with those there are 14 more characters to unlock, 
 so no one will be at a loss at finding a favorite character. Within the 35 playable characters 
 there are two not so secret third party characters from the likes of Konami and Sega. 
  
  Most characters all play differently, but unfortunately some characters are clones of others with 
 slight differences between them. This is only true for some of the un-lockable characters, but 
 all the starting characters are completely original with their move sets. Also, some characters 
 are two in one. Samus can lose her power suit and become Zero Suit Samus, while Zelda can transform 
 into Sheik. And in a special case, one character, the Pokemon Trainer, has control over three different 
 pokemon, Squirtle, Ivysaur, and Charizard. 
  
  Along with tons of characters, there are tons of stages as well. You have a pretty big selection 
 of stages from the get go and have a lot more to unlock. Along with new stages to unlock, you can 
 unlock a select few stages from Super Smash Bros. Melee as well.
  
  The game play is more or less the same as Melee. You beat each other senseless until the damage 
 meter on your opponent goes up to the point where a strong hit can send your opponent flying off 
 the map. You standard Brawl where you just kick the crap out of your friends will be the standard 
 way you play. This time around you can take your rivalries online and play your friends or random 
 people. The bad thing about this is Nintendo's online service is just not up to par in today's 
 internet age. We still have friend codes, there's no leader boards, no communication or anything 
 like that. But when it comes down to it, it's SSB online so you can't complain too much.
  
  Along with your standard Brawl there is now a full single player campaign entitled Subspace Emissary, 
 which was penned by the writer of Final Fantasy VII. The story is about an army invading Nintendo 
 land? Consisting of weird looking enemies to say the least. Some big time Nintendo baddies team 
 up to take out the good guys and in terms of Nintendo its pretty epic seeing all these characters 
 in such dramatic situations. The play through pretty much consists of side scrolling through a 
 level and once in a while you'll be thrown into a situation fight or a boss fight. If you don't 
 have a lot of friends to play with, this will be the main mode that you unlock all the characters 
 in.
  
  In technical aspects the game looks, sounds, and plays great. The graphics are some of the best 
 on the Wii, you can actually see texture in Mario's overalls! The orchestrated soundtrack is a 
 who's who of video game composers with tons of composers contributing to the game. And play wise, 
 well you've got options. You can play with only the wii remote held sideways which I do not recommended 
 due to awkward use of the +/- buttons, the next best is using the Wiimote and nunchuck, which isn't 
 bad but you can do better. Next you have the classic controller which works fine but it is in no 
 comparison to the Gamecube controller, which is a proven fit for Super Smash Bros and has great 
 rumble. 
  
  There are a ton of extras in the game as well. During single player mode you'll gather stickers, 
 which are exactly what they sound like. They are all of characters/items from all the games represented 
 within the game and can be used to power up your character in single player. Another thing to collect 
 within the game is trophies which are like stickers, except 3D and don't do anything for you. There 
 is a old timey arcade shooter in which you can use your coins to shoot down new trophies, it isn't 
 that great but it's a nice distraction. At any point in the game you can take snapshots of your 
 characters in order to view them later, send them to friends, or (I think) save them to an SD card 
 and view them on your computer, don't quote me on that. Lastly, there is a (while meger) stage 
 creator. While you won't be making the most technically flashy stages, you can make some pretty 
 interesting creations, upload them to WiiConnect24 and if Nintendo likes your stage, they can let 
 everyone know about it. 
  
  Overall, Super Smash Brothers brawl is an amazing game that you will be playing for however long 
 you have your Wii and maybe till the next Nintendo console if it has Wii compatibility. It is almost 
 everything you could want. Sure it would be nice to have Dr. Mario, Mewtwo, Roy, and Pichu back 
 but 3 out of 4 of those would be very similar to exisisting characters. That being said, why can't 
 all the characters have their own move set? And Nintendo, please get a better online service, is 
 leader boards too much to ask for? All those negative things aside, they are minor and shouldn't 
 deter anyone from the game which like I said, is AMAZING.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kirby-fu-
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 4:31 am PT
Review:  Super Smash Bros. Brawl is a must have game for any Wii owner. The graphics are great and they 
 move even better. A great frame rate adds to the awesome action. Gameplay in this game is silky 
 smooth and a lot of fun. This is easily the best game I've played this year which includes some 
 great ones. I am still shocked in how they made a pink blob like Kirby look so good. The variety 
 of characters choices and stages is also great. It adds a new flavor to the game every time. Each 
 person has its ups and downs but most equal out in the overall look. Overall this game was well 
 worth the long wait and will continue to amaze every time you play it. Playing with a group of 
 friends is a lot of fun and great for big groups. It has an online play so you'll keep coming back 
 for more. This game won't dissappoint and will surely amaze. Overall this game was well worth the 
 wait and is the best game on the Wii since Super Mario Galaxy. What I'm saying here is "You should 
 have a copy of this game!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nightmare5000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 3:12 am PT
Review:  The Wii is not complete without perhaps the most anticipated game, Super Smash Bros. Brawl. Super 
 Smash Bros. Melee was a huge success for a console that was never really popular to begin with. 
 Melee was a game that had so much replay value, that it could be played for several years and it 
 still wouldn't get old. The Smash Bros series has indeed come a very long way since the low budget 
 original for the N64. That game had so little content; eight characters with four hidden characters, 
 nine stages, two different types of multiplayer and only one really short single player mode. Melee 
 improved significantly and added more to the single player content as well as multiplayer. It's 
 hard to believe that Melee could be surpassed in content but believe it, Brawl easily surpasses 
 Melee in content. It's got more characters, stages and modes. Brawl is a game that will offer so 
 much replay value, it's almost ridiculous. Now on with the review and why Brawl lives up to the 
 Smash name. Warning: Some Hidden Content will be written. If you want nothing to be spoiled, then 
 don't read this.
  This review is going to get right to the low down and tell you everything you want to know. First 
 lets begin with the characters. The character roster is bigger than Melee's. It has ten more characters 
 then Melee so put that together to figure out the content number. That number of characters is 
 pretty good. It's not an insane amount of characters but for anyone who actually expected 50 characters, 
 they had to know that wouldn't happen. Most of the characters from Melee are back, five Melee characters 
 have been cut. Some are replaced with new ones that are similar to their counterparts. There's 
 plenty of newcomers though. However, most of the interesting newcomers are starters. The amount 
 of newcomers who are unlockable is a bit of a letdown. Here's the bad news. Some characters that 
 had very good potential to be playable didn't make it. A certain villain from Metroid didn't make 
 the playable roster nor did certain female characters from Star Fox and Fire Emblem respectively, 
 nor did a certain character from Nintendo's GBA RPG series. Either they became bosses, assist trophies 
 or neither. The playable roster newcomers falls a little short. It's a shame to see some really 
 good characters not make it; not to mention there's a few playable characters that didn't even 
 deserve to be on the roster. Having a certain accessory for the NES playable instead of the hinted 
 characters above is a bit ridiculous. Aside from that, there are still some very deserving characters 
 that did make it, not to mention a few surprises. Most of the previous character's fighting styles 
 have been tweaked. Some characters got buffed while unfortunately, a few characters got nerfed. 
 Nevertheless, most of the characters fight the same. They all have their own final smashes although 
 there are a few cloned final smashes. Much like Melee, the characters aren't completely balanced. 
 There are some characters with bigger advantages then others. There are some characters as an example 
 who have insane recovery moves like Pit and Snake while other characters such as Link and Mario, 
 really got screwed with their limited recovery moves.
  The fighting action of the game is also a bit slower but it won't destroy the experience. You'll 
 get use to it. It's a little unfortunate that some of the advanced techniques that players mastered 
 in Melee got removed but that's how it. Another surprising move is bonuses for each match have 
 been removed. Instead you get satistics. At least there's no more annoying butterfingers minus 
 bonus for almost every match. Some more bad news is clones are back; something that shouldn't have 
 happened with the extended development time as opposed to Melee. The good news however is some 
 of the clones have some new tweaked moves. The bad news is everyone's favorite Zelda villain is 
 still swordless and he still has a similar moveset to the Captain's; something that was inexcusable 
 and it shows a little bit of laziness because he had so much potential for his own moveset. Apparently, 
 the developers felt it wasn't worthwhile to work on. Still, there are plenty of unique characters 
 and the 3rd party characters fit right in. Snake and Sonic have very unique and thought out movesets 
 that make them feel very different from the other fighters. The 3rd party characters do not fall 
 short in movesets like a few characters did. If you thought Game and Watch or the Ice Climbers 
 were unique in Melee, then Brawl has some more for you. Pikmin and Olimar is one character that 
 fights very differently as does the Pokemon Trainer. There honestly are some really well intacked 
 characters. Overall the character roster is a mixed bag. There are some really unique characters 
 but at the same time there are some characters that should have been worked on longer. The character 
 roster number may not be the amount that some people dreamed about but it's a reasonable number 
 and nowadays, there aren't many fighting games that go over 30 characters to begin with. The gameplay 
 also is just as fun a Melee's before it. There are few changes in Brawl's gameplay but it isn't 
 major and it is adjustable. 
  This game also has some excellent new stages. It has more stages than Melee, that's all that will 
 be said. However that was expected anyways. This game also brings back some stages from Melee which 
 really increases the stage number. There's one Melee stage from each Nintendo franchise. (except 
 for Ice Climber and Game and Watch for obvious reasons) The game goes lengths and even implies 
 an option to build your own stages. Building your own stage is very fun and there's plenty of unique 
 ways to build one. You can go crazy and build a stage that is so hazardous. Overall the stage content 
 will not disappoint.
  In addition to the great stage selection, the developers went out of their way and added a ton 
 of songs. There are multiple songs for each stage, some songs are unlockable. Honestly, the music 
 is outstanding because there is so much of it. Imagine a stage with four songs to start with before 
 you unlock more. Yes, there are that many songs. There are over one hundred songs in all. Some 
 songs are remixed and sound great. Other songs are taken straight out of the game they came from. 
 This can be seen as either a good or bad thing because the fact that it sounds like the original 
 may please the person who loved the way the old song sounded maybe good but it's bad that the song 
 sounds too old and outdated. There are several MIDI songs which is the bad news. While there are 
 a few great orchestra songs, the MIDI numbers surpass them. This is a Nintendo game so nobody should 
 really be surprised by that anyways. Nevertheless, there is so much music, it's hard to be disappointed 
 in it unless you hate Nintendo songs. There's plenty of nostalgic songs no doubt. To talk more 
 about the content, the game not only has way more trophies than Melee but there's even stickers. 
 There's so much that almost every recognizable character from a Nintendo franchise is represented. 
 
  Now, finally it's time to analyze the one player mode. The great news is it surpasses Melee's greatly. 
 Just about every one player mode from Melee is back in a whole new way. Everyone knows that classic 
 mode would be included. What's most impressive about the one player mode is the new Subspace Emissary. 
 That one player mode is unbelievably good. First of all, the mode has an actual story. There's 
 a lot of cut scenes and it's sweet to see Nintendo characters team up. In this mode, you play through 
 several different stages with several different characters. There's multiple difficulty levels 
 too so you can abjust the difficulty. As you already know, there's co-op gameplay here. Co-op is 
 added in other modes too which should have been brought up earlier. Anyways, the Subspace is a 
 pretty lengthy one player mode that usually can't be beaten in one sitting unless you plan on playing 
 the whole thing in one day. The mode is around 6-10 hours depending on you pace. Nevertheless, 
 that's pretty long compared to Melee's one player adventure which can easily be beaten in under 
 20 minutes. Overall, the subspace is a great experience and it's fun to fight enemies with a party 
 of Nintendo characters. It almost feels like an RPG. The stages are inspired from Melee's adventure 
 since they are side scrolling and you fight lots of enemies. However, some people may find the 
 enemies a little repetitive and too easy to fight which might be a bit disappointing. Honestly 
 though, the subspace is a really exciting new addition.
  Now to talk about the multiplayer, it's just as sweet as Melee's. Pretty much every multiplayer 
 option from Melee is back and then some. However, this addition one ups Melee's by offering online. 
 It's been many player's dream to fight other smashers around the world. However, is the online 
 any good? The answer is it's good in someways and bad in others. To bring up the good news, the 
 "with friends'"option lets you brawl anyway you want. You can fight with any set or rules. However, 
 the very annoying friend codes are back and it will be hard to play with other players in "with 
 friends" mode without knowing them in person. You'll probably have to find some people on the web 
 and exchange your friend codes. The only enjoyable way to play online is through the "with friends" 
 mode. This online mode also offers another feature called "with anyone". Unfortunately, it's not 
 very good and extremely limited. You won't know who your fighting and you only fight in two minute 
 matches. That's it. Because the time limit is so short, playing with anyone will get old very fast. 
 The time is just too darn short. "With anyone" maybe fun the first ten to twenty times but after 
 that, it may get tiring. Two minutes is just not enough to give you a real satisfying brawl. Try 
 your best to play others in the "with friends" option because it's so much better. Overall though, 
 it's just great that this game has online to begin with. It's a darn shame that the" with anyone" 
 option is so limited because if you don't have friends, you won't be able to fully enjoy the online 
 experience. The "with anyone" option is only good if you want a really quick Brawl. 
  Inconclusion, Brawl lives up to the name. It really went out of it's way by offering a lot of content. 
 This game is one that you will be playing for several years, just like Melee. If you loved Melee, 
 there's no reason for you not to enjoy Brawl. This game makes buying a Wii worth it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HALCONAZUL
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 3:05 am PT
Review:  So finally the game is officially out after all this wait all i can say is
  
  This is worth the wait
  
  the difficulty is just right, even tough unlocking the characters 
 will be easier than many of you expected but even after unlocking all the characters there are 
 many many things to keep you playing when you are alone or dont have someone to play sometimes
 
  
  Another point is the online, is just right wifi random matches will be lag free 1vs 1 most of the 
 times the problem comes when more people join but for a fighting game... is awesome, with friends 
 is a little more lag free
  
  Graphics: just right actually everything is detailed not only the characters, the background, Assistant's, 
 Pokemon etc but again it not the most important aspect of the game
  
  Soundtrack: BEST SOUNDTRACK EVER
  
  Gameplay: incredibly balanced, but you will need more practice 
 with some characters that others wiimote is a little uncomfortable tough
  
  all i can say this game will last as much as Melee did and is a must have game in anyone who owns 
 a Wii or call himself a gamer
  
  you will not be stop playing this game in some years
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathofaninja
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 12:08 am PT
Review:  It's hard to explain in writing just how amazing a game like Brawl truly is. It really does have 
 everything you could possibly ask for out of a game. And there is so much content to the game, you 
 will be playing it for years to come.
  
  The premise of Brawl is Nintendo characters are out to beat the heck out of each other. With Smash 
 attacks, special moves with each character and a huge amount of items; such as red shells, baseball 
 bats and bombs. To win a Brawl you must knock your opponet out of the various well detailed levels. It 
 sounds simple but there are so many way to get the job done everyone will have there own unique 
 strategy of doing things which really makes the game fun to play with three other players.
  
  Brawl really hits it home with it's HUGE roster. Not everyone is here. But the roster is very 
 very well improved. There are less clones and more unique characters. And even guest characters Solid 
 Snake and Sonic. And the regulars you would expect like Mario, Link and Samus. AND maybe some you 
 have no idea are even Nintendo characters like Pit and King Dedede (I knew they were nintendo characters) .
 
  
  Levels are also a huge improvement. There a lot more fun to play on this time and there is a lot 
 more going on in the levels. Such as a huge top of an iceberge that you and three others are fighting 
 on crumbles and falls down into the water. BUT THE FIGHT CONTINUES, but watch out for a crazy big 
 fish that wants to make you dinner! And if you like calmer levels you got those levels to, and a 
 handful of ones from Melee. This game really gives everyone something to enjoy. And there is even 
 a well done map editor. GIVING you ENDLESS possibilities.
  
  There are all sorts of modes to keep you busy. An improved Single Player that is more fun then ever 
 combining platforming and fighting. AND the single player modes are really where you will be unlocking 
 most of your stuff for multiplayer action. And other modes like multi-man melee and classic mode 
 return as well. There is also all-star and challenges, and you can do mostly all of this with a coop 
 buddy!!
  
  Wifi is also added into the mix, adding more replay value to Smash Brothers then ever before. Each 
 match will be a new foe that has a brain and will most likely give you a heck of a challenge.
 
  
  Graphics are also well done in Brawl. Brawl looks amazing. It's not perfection. But the graphics have 
 a great style, and all these universes Nintendo created fits in well with one another. So from the 
 story cut scenes to characters and levels, Brawl looks amazing.
  
  Epic is the only word that could possibly describe the games music. Everything sounds beautiful. AND 
 the majority of the music is music you would want playing if you were in a real fight. It sounds 
 amazing and it's one of the best sounding games made in recent memory.
  
  Overall, I could go on and on about how amazing Brawl is, but people that read can only read so long 
 before getting bored. So I'll sum it up. Brawl may not be perfect in every area. But it deserves a 
 ten for it's heart, and the developers deserve all the credit through the hell they went through 
 to bring this game to us. If you're a gamer of any kind. Buy Brawl. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
