-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Super Mario Galaxy
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/supermario128/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Some of the best level designs of any 3D platformer.
 Beautiful, colorful graphics.
 Controls work just about flawlessly in nearly every situation.
 Soundtrack is a delight.
 Lots of stages and tons of stars to find and collect.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A couple of Mario's special suits can be frustrating to use.
 Minimal amount of story doesn't tie everything together especially well.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  7, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.5
Critic Score: 9.7, 77 Review (s)
User Score: 9.3, 14,138 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Nov 12, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The stellar presentation and fantastic level designs combine to make Super Mario Galaxy the Wii's 
 game to beat and one of Mario's greatest adventures yet. 

  Here is the game that Wii owners have been pining for, a game that has tons of appeal for both 
 the less experienced player and the longtime gamer. A game that deftly combines accessibility and 
 challenge, all wrapped up in a package that's both deep and addictive. Super Mario Galaxy is all 
 of this and more. It is simultaneously one of Mario's best adventures and a game that doesn't require 
 fandom of the portly plumber's previous engagements to appreciate. The sheer quality of Mario Galaxy's 
 wonderful level designs, tight controls, and brilliant presentation is the sort of thing that just 
 about anyone who loves gaming should be able to appreciate, and that many will fall head-over-heels 
 for.  

           Mario takes to the stars in Super Mario Galaxy.      

  The premise for Mario Galaxy begins in fairly well-worn territory. Mario receives a note from his 
 beloved Peach to come to the castle, for she has a special "gift" for him. He arrives, only to 
 walk straight into chaos as Bowser and son arrive in a fleet of airships and use a giant UFO to 
 pluck the Princess' castle right out of the ground. Mario gives chase, but is unable to rescue 
 her before the fearsome twosome jet off into space. This all certainly sounds par for the course, 
 but it's where Mario ends up that gives Mario Galaxy its own flavor. Mario eventually hooks up 
 with a creature called a luma, from a race that looks like some kind of cross between an invincibility 
 star and a headless chicken. The lumas are led by an enigmatic woman named Rosalina, who lives 
 with them on a crazy spaceship called the comet observatory. Mario learns that Bowser has made 
 off with a gaggle of power stars used to power the observatory. To reach Bowser's hideout, Mario 
 has to travel to all the various galaxies in the universe to collect as many power stars as he 
 can in order to power the ship back up, fly to the center of the universe, rescue the princess, 
 and set everything right again.  

  Mario 64, anyone? If you played that seminal game, Mario Galaxy's star hunt progression probably 
 sounds familiar to you. But apart from that basic structuring, you can hardly call Mario Galaxy 
 a Mario 64 rehash. If anything, Mario Galaxy simply takes the basics of what made Mario 64 such 
 a dynamite game, and turns them completely crazy.  

  The definition of crazy here has a lot to do with gravity and physics. Each galaxy contains a series 
 of little worlds that can't even really be called planets so much as they are floating puzzles. 
 In many of these worlds, Mario can walk just about anywhere. When he lands on a sphere, he can 
 walk all over it, going sideways and upside down in the process. Sometimes you'll simply jump in 
 one area and end up gravitating toward the ceiling or walls or even another nearby planetoid without 
 even realizing it. Often Mario will need to track down launch stars, which, when you shake the 
 Wii Remote while standing near or inside one, will send you flying to a whole new, previously inaccessible 
 area. There are even sections where you'll be floating through space, using specialized pull stars 
 to hop from area to area, all while floating through the spatial void.  

  Practically every galaxy you explore is an absolute joy to experience. The level designs here are 
 top flight in every regard, with tons of clever and sometimes dastardly traps and puzzles for Mario 
 to navigate. The difficulty doesn't start off terribly high, but as time goes on, the game ramps 
 up nicely, building the challenge steadily until the final areas, which, though perhaps a bit frustrating 
 to inexperienced players, provides the exact sort of tough workout you've come to expect from a 
 Mario adventure. But even aside from the challenge level, simply exploring all these various galaxies 
 is half the fun. Whether you're floating from land mass to land mass on a giant spinning flower, 
 running frantically around a giant series of platforms that shrink to nothing the first time you 
 touch them, or taking on one of several terrific 2D side-scrolling areas reminiscent of New Super 
 Mario Bros. for the DS, you won't be wanting for variety while playing through Galaxy's dozens 
 of levels.  

  In a sort of nod to the suit-happy gameplay of Super Mario Bros. 3, Mario can don a number of different 
 costumes that give him new abilities. For instance, in several levels, Mario can take on the abilities 
 of a bee, buzzing around through the air via his new pair of wings, and wall-climbing specific 
 honeycombed areas of the environment. With others, Mario can freeze water to walk over it, launch 
 fireballs (natch) , fly, wrap himself in a Mario-sized spring and jump to great heights, turn invincible 
 (natch, again) and even turn into one of those pesky boos, allowing him to float around and pass 
 through some solid walls. In most cases, the game takes great advantage of these abilities in the 
 context of each level. A few involving the bee suit are a bit frustrating (given that you lose 
 the suit when you touch water) and the spring suit is kind of a pain to control given Mario's perpetual 
 bounciness, but otherwise, these abilities add a great dimension to the already excellent gameplay. 

           All the crazy gravitational pulling and perspective shifting is undeniably cool, and also 
 potentially a little queasy.      

  Apart from the screwiness of the spring suit, there's very little issue to be taken with Mario 
 Galaxy's controls. At its core, it controls much as Mario 64 did, but with a couple of Wii-centric 
 twists. For one, Mario's primary attack is a basic spin move (the same spin move you use to activate 
 launch stars) . Simply shaking the Wii Remote engages the spin, and it's an extremely responsive 
 mechanic. The one trick to it is that you have to wait a second before spinning again, so you want 
 to make sure you're able to get away from whatever bad guy is nearby if you happen to miss.  

 
  The other key change is the addition of the Wii Remote as a pointer. Simply by pointing at them 
 on the screen you'll collect star bits, which can be found just about everywhere and serve as both 
 Super Mario Galaxy's currency and as a weapon. Firing star bits is as simple as aiming the Wii 
 Remote at an enemy and pressing B to launch. But you don't want to fire off too many of those, 
 as they come in handy for unlocking new stages later on. Only in a few specific cases does the 
 game really dabble in true motion control, such as sections where you're surfing on a manta ray 
 or walking on a boulder. But even these few divergences from the standard gameplay formula are 
 largely successful and quite fun.  

  Mario Galaxy's journey is scattered and epic all at once. There isn't much of a thread tying together 
 all these disparate worlds, apart from the fact that they have power stars hidden within them somewhere. 
 And yet, at the same time, the lack of cohesion in what you're doing never really gets in the way 
 of your enjoyment of it. Because each level is so much an island unto itself, it actually makes 
 each one stand out all the more.  

  It helps that practically every stage in the game has a great deal of replayability purely on its 
 own merits. These levels are just inherently fun to go back to again and again, and that the game 
 gives you plenty of reason to is even better. Once you complete an area, you can go back and engage 
 in a specialized version of it in certain cases. Essentially, comets will enter orbit in some of 
 these galaxies, and thus change the way you play in some bizarre way. Whether it's speeding up 
 all the enemies in an area, putting you on a timed run, or having you race against a doppelganger 
 Mario, there's a nice variety of change-ups to experience. The adventure probably won't take you 
 more than 12 to 15 hours if you just collect the minimum number of stars necessary to get to the 
 end level, but you can certainly tack on a great deal more to that if you're into going back and 
 collecting all the stars. And if you want to unlock the game's neat end surprise, you'll need to 
 get all of them.  

  There is even a multiplayer component to the game, albeit a limited one. Another player can point 
 their Wii Remote at the screen and take part in some of the basic fun, like collecting star bits, 
 shooting star bits, and the like. You can even directly assist Mario by pointing at him and pressing 
 A at the same time as your friend to make him do a super jump, and stop certain enemies from attacking 
 by highlighting them with the pointer. It's not the most involved co-op mode you'll ever experience, 
 but it can be fun if you've got someone enthusiastic alongside you.  

  As wonderful as Mario Galaxy's gameplay is, its graphics are even better. There simply isn't a 
 better-looking Wii game available. A great deal of credit is due to the art design, which is simply 
 phenomenal. The character designs, level details, animations, all of it is incredibly colorful 
 and vibrant, and just a joy to look at. The technical engine does its part as well, keeping the 
 frame rate drops to minor, infrequent bouts. One area especially worth noting is the game's camera, 
 which takes a largely cinematic perspective, albeit with a limited amount of player control. You 
 can adjust it right or left in certain areas, and go to a first-person view if you just want to 
 look around. There are a few areas where the camera prevents you from seeing things perfectly, 
 but mostly it does an excellent job of framing the action, especially considering all the kooky 
 perspective shifting the game does as you run around these oddball environments. The only thing 
 that's kind of a bummer is that you'll undoubtedly wish at some point while playing that the Wii 
 could support resolutions higher than 480p; but even with the limited resolution, the game just 
 looks beautiful.  

           Some of the new suits are seriously awesome.      

  Audio is also excellent, thanks largely to the top-notch soundtrack. Much of the music is made 
 up of classic Mario tunes from a wide variety of different games, and it's all modernized and orchestrated. 
 These are some of the best renditions of these tracks since the originals, and you're sure to be 
 humming along as you play. There's little voice work in the game, but the few voice samples that 
 are there are used to nice effect. It's probably better to just hear Bowser snarling than it is 
 to hear him being a chatty Cathy, anyway. The sound effects are a touch on the shrill side at times, 
 but the bulk of them fit the vibe of each stage nicely.  

  When all is said and done, the thing that really makes Super Mario Galaxy such a standout game 
 isn't the fact that it's another Mario game, but the fact that it doesn't even  need  to be a Mario 
 game to be successful. Sure, it's got all the nostalgic flavor Mario fans would want, with the 
 updated soundtrack, familiar foes, and various other Mario-related bric-a-brac scattered throughout 
 the adventure, but the game never leans on these nostalgic aspects as a crutch. It instead puts 
 the whole of its focus on its gameplay design, and with good reason. You could probably swap in 
 just about any other characters from practically any other franchise, and this would still be a 
 phenomenally fun game. That it layers all these memorable characters and components on top of that 
 phenomenal design just makes it all the sweeter. If ever there were a must-own Wii game, Super 
 Mario Galaxy is it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1121 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Brawl578
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2009 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is everything Super Mario Sunshine wasn't, and nothing Sunshine was. Everything 
 about this game is simply wonderful, and adds up to a great platformer that perfectly fits on the 
 Wii. The beautiful graphics and the insanely fun gameplay will leave you breathless.
  
  Galaxy still sticks with the same story as other Mario games: Beat all the big bad Koopas and save 
 the princess. But only this time, your in space. You must travel across different worlds and gain 
 as much Stars as you can and confront Bowser for the final showdown. During the story, you meet 
 little star creatures called Lumas, and their mother, Rosalina. And there is also a significant 
 difference in the story from other Mario games. Remember sweet ol' Luigi? The one you've been dying 
 to play as for years? Well Nintendo has finally answered your wishes. Once you collect all 120 
 stars and defeat Bowser, a message pops up and tells you what you've wanted to hear: "You can now 
 play as Luigi in Story Mode."
  
  The gameplay is very similar to that of Super Mario 64's, but with multiple twists. When you see 
 a star launcher during a level, you can jump into it and blast through the planet. This is probably 
 the most satisfying part of the game. To collect far away Star Bits, you must point the Wii Remote 
 toward them, and they will automatically come to you. The game is also known for defying the laws 
 of gravity. You can run around the planet as much as you want, and some planets even allow you 
 to change the gravity direction. While some levels can be frustrating, some can be very simple 
 to complete, and the final boss is one of those levels, though it's is still an entertaining fight. 
 The level design is also what makes this game very special. The planets are very different from 
 each other with their own wacky little tricks.
  
  While the graphics may not compete with 360 or PS3 graphics, thy still are pretty to look at. Instead 
 of being a dark game with a lack of color, Galaxy is one of those games that make just about every 
 color a sight to see. The water graphics are simply outstanding, not just a paint of blue you can 
 float in. Even underwater, everything is very clear, the water not making it difficult to see at 
 all. The characters look very well-made with a bright shine of colors shining off them. All in 
 all, this may be one of the most beautiful and colorful games on the Wii.
  
  If your a Wii owner desperately in search of games, then look no further than Super Mario Galaxy. 
 If the graphics won't "wow" you, then the gameplay surely will. No Mario fan should be caught dead 
 without this game in their collection. Now only one question remains: Will the next Super Mario 
 game be just as great as Galaxy? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMLSLAT
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2009 4:54 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Flawless, revolutionary controls and gravity-based gameplay; unbelievable graphics, by 
 any standards; huge, beautiful, fully orchestrated music; a ton of content to the main game, plus 
 a few things switched up for a second time through; the game tailors itself to appeal to hardcore 
 and newcoming gamers with its controls, two ways to 'beat' the game, and two player; a surprisingly 
 deep story; the game would've been awesome even if it wasn't Mario.
  
  The Bad: Camera's a tad faulty underwater and when flying; you might get dizzy.
  
  Mario's 
 been around the block a few times. There are a total of eight main franchise games on consoles, 
 but there are also tons and tons of spin-offs to be found on every Nintendo system. You can get 
 upgraded ports on GBA and DS, the Mario and Luigi games, Super Mario Land 1-3, Mario-themed basketball, 
 baseball, golf, tennis, and kart racing, Mario Party, Paper Mario... The list goes on and on.
 
  
  So it's pretty well hyped up when a new, big Mario game comes around. Super Mario 64 was revolutionary 
 in its time and a giant success, but Super Mario Sunshine, the most recent, was considered a bit 
 disappointing. So hardcore gamers may have had some trepidation about the first Wii Mario title.
 
  
  But fear not; this could very well be the greatest Mario game, maybe even the greatest game, ever 
 developed. Few games have been as innovative as this one in recent years, or have had such spectacular 
 presentation as this. It is, hands down, the number one title on Wii.
  
  I'll argue my case though, because I'm sure some of you want to disagree. We'll start with the 
 controls. You can jump on enemies or spin, then kick them, to avoid making combat harder than necessary, 
 and adding Star Bits to the game. These can be thrown at enemies or fed to Lumas, which are more 
 or less baby stars or planets, to open up new levels. Mario has other tricks, though. He can ground 
 pound, triple jump, getting higher and higher as he goes, wall jump, and do a flying long jump.
 
  
  The game doesn't overcomplicate itself, which is sure to be good for newer gamers. Nintendo's working 
 hard to make games that appeal to absolutely everyone, and this one does it. The controls may be 
 simplistic, but Mario's supposed to be that way. And they haven't left you out, either, because 
 some of the later levels are certainly challenging.
  
  These controls are also wrapped around brand new gravity gameplay that'll throw anyone for a loop. 
 You'll find that running off a ledge won't always send you to your demise, but instead, you'll 
 be on the other side of the planet. You'll be going every possible direction before the game is 
 out, and the controls never screw up with it. The camera, sadly, does get a little mixed up though, 
 particularly when you're flying around in one of Mario's transformations. But that's very rare, 
 and will barely affect that particular level, let alone the whole game.
  
  Otherwise, unlike Super Mario Sunshine's camera, Galaxy's can commonly be moved side to side, centered 
 behind you, or go into first-person perspective. But regardless, the camera moves around on its 
 own just fine aside from the occasional flying and underwater sequence.
  
  The reason you'll actually be exploring the cosmos, as you'd expect, is because Bowser kidnapped 
 Peach. This time, though, it's relatively different. He actually lifted the entire Mushroom Castle 
 off its foundations and brought it into space along with him. Peach is stuck with him, naturally, 
 as he goes about trying to make his very own galaxy and rule it from the center of the universe.
 
  
  The fat little plumber that could ends up on an Astral Obvservatory, which is unfortunately out 
 of power because Bowser stole its Grand Stars to power his own new home. Rosalina, a mysterious 
 new face, controls the observatory and watches over the Lumas there (who call her "Mama") , wanting 
 to help you find your "Special One" and restore order to the universe.
  
  You'll be out collecting a total of 120 Power Stars, some of which are Grand Stars that power up 
 a new part of the ship. That's a lot of content, but the game splits the appeal for everybody the 
 best possible way.
  
  You can appear to beat the game after collecting only 60 of the stars, which is when you can first 
 fight Bowser. That way, you won't have to face the more challenging levels and feel the sense of 
 accomplishment you want. That can generally appeal to newer gamers, or anyone else, for that matter, 
 if they choose not to finish the game.
  
  But it's definitely a lot better to stick it out the whole way. Some of the most fun, unique levels 
 come later, and the hardest, the Purple Coin levels (only unlocked when you beat Bowser once) will 
 certainly pose a challenge to you no matter what. None of these levels will turn you away from 
 the game though, but instead give you the sense of 'I can beat this, one more try...' that you 
 want from a game.
  
  Meanwhile, two player allows for someone else to collect Star Bits that you can't focus on getting, 
 being too preoccupied playing as Mario (or Luigi, if you collect all 120 and unlock the second 
 play through) . This is entirely optional, but the additional player can hop in at any time and 
 isn't required to be there every time you play from then on. While they collect the Star Bits, 
 they can shoot them at enemies to stun them and help you out, plus help Mario jump even higher 
 than he can do on his own. This is probably the best way for younger kids to get into Mario, as 
 they, like everyone else, are sure to enjoy the title.
  
  Nintendo even foresaw another issue. If such a large crowd can get into the game, they'll probably 
 all want their own file. So instead of sticking with a small number of files, (three generally 
 being the company's standard, i. e. Zelda) , they doubled up with six. That's not to say it's an 
 unbelievable amount, but it's a good plan on their part.
  
  While the story about Mario saving Peach is straightforward, if unique, Rosalina's past is an interesting 
 new twist. She lost her family a long time ago, but found the Lumas, survived on Star Bits, and 
 set up the observatory to take care of them and continue searching for her own special ones. It's 
 told in a much more in-depth manner in the game, as you unlock more chapters of 'storytime' to 
 keep track of what happened to her. Her history is optional to follow, but it's very interesting 
 and charming, and not sickeningly so.
  
  Nintendo didn't just focus on these aspects, though. The levels do get progressively harder (although 
 it'll throw you a curveball every once in awhile with the hungry Luma levels) , and you have a lot 
 of freedom in deciding where to go next. You're never required to do the hardest levels, though 
 a couple necessary ones pose a little challenge, naturally. The Big N knew what it was doing with 
 this game, meshing every audience that's been reeled into Wii with one game, and doing it with 
 the most famous gaming character ever made.
  
  And the production values are out of this world during all of the above. The graphics are gorgeous, 
 bright, and fun, with absolutely no lag anywhere, and just about zero loading. Being Mario, it's 
 not meant to look realistic or anything, but it doesn't look like a little kid game too much either. 
 These graphics couldn't be complained about on any system, and prove the Wii's power isn't as pathetic 
 as third parties think it is.
  
  The music is fully orchestrated, unlike the most recent blockbuster from first party Nintendo, 
 Twilight Princess (Prime 3 is second party) . Thus, all the effects are loud, grand, and beautiful.
 
  
  The title isn't focused on copying its predecessors, ever, but in areas like the music and certain 
 sidescrolling or flat plain levels, it fondly refers back to them with just the right amount of 
 nostalgia. Once in awhile you'll feel like you're back playing an old Super Mario Bros. or Super 
 Mario World game, and you might get a hint of Super Mario 64. Galaxy doesn't ease up on the difficulty 
 for these parts though, so it ties in nicely. Perhaps the best bit of nostalgia is the remix of 
 the original Super Mario Bros. theme in the Toy Time Galaxy, which is just as much fun to listen 
 to as it is to play.
  
  There's probably thirty or forty hours of gameplay here, depending on how good you are at platforming. 
 Many gamers aren't very good at it anymore because platforming seems to be dying out. On the other 
 hand, if any genre can be revitalized, it'll be with titles like this. Playing through all 120 
 stars is very memorable, and playing through them as Luigi is a cool addition too. It even adds 
 a bit of humor, since levels where you save Luigi as Mario still have you saving Luigi. In other 
 words, two Luigis will be on the screen at once. And the script changes along with it. That means 
 the other Luigi will say, "Hi me!" and such.
  
  Yoshi doesn't make an appearance, except for a planet shaped like his head. There's a group of 
 Toads exploring the planets with you though, as a nice touch. Wario, Waluigi, or baby characters 
 aren't missed, even though they're nowhere to be found.
  
  But after one play as both Mario brothers, you'll very likely want to play this one again and again. 
 I personally doubt it'll ever get old.
  
  So would I recommend it? A resounding yes. If there's one game I would suggest to everyone who 
 has a Wii, no matter what gaming capability they have, it'd be this. I'd put it before Twilight 
 Princess, Prime 3, No More Heroes, Brawl, Resident Evil, Okami... The whole nine yards. This is 
 the type of title that will go down as a timeless classic. It is of the caliber of Tetris, Super 
 Mario Bros., and Ocarina of Time, every step of the way. It is quite possibly the best Mario ever 
 created. It sure is to me. The game is a steal at $50. Run, don't walk, and get this game if you 
 don't have it. Do not miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarbun
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong. This is a fantastic game. It showcases the Wii's underlooked capabilities perfectly. 
 You just wish every Wii game had this much depth and variety,
  
  The main problem I have with it is the lack of impact. Mario 64 was such a move forward that expecations 
 were high for this game. Some of the features are nice but you get the feeling this could have 
 been done just as well on any other console. The Wii controls are nice but they could have made 
 more out of the sensor controller. The camera is also tricky!! You sometimes end up tilting your 
 head around to try and make the orientation of the screen make sense. Very bizarre!
  
  The reason this gets such a high score from me is the fact this is a fantatic deep game with plenty 
 to offer to any gamer. The reason it does not get a 10. Its just not as good or has the same wow 
 factor as Mario 64. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squaredude44
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 8:56 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is an amazing game for the Wii and we haven't really seen good games for the 
 Wii a lot these days. First of all, THE GRAPHICS ARE AMAZING! None of the other Wii games have 
 better quality and detail than this game. The game play is astonishing, but the camera gets a little 
 annoying sometimes when you are running around a planet for example. Another great thing is the 
 co-op mode, where anybody can join at anytime and use another wii mote to collect the star bits 
 when you are fighting somebody else. The enemies are also great, all of the same classics like 
 the goombas, the worms, etc. The level amount is huuuge! There are about 120 stars to collect, 
 so its a real fun packed game. Another great thing is unlocking different worlds like the terrace, 
 the kitchen, etc. The motions for this game are also amazing like the twisting motion for climbing 
 up a vine, or the shaking motion for a spin attack. There are also several power ups throughout 
 the game like fire power up, freeze power up, boo power up etc. This is the best Mario platformer 
 that has ever come out for any system yet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smilely123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 11:07 am PT
Review:  
  Mario Super Galaxy, it's just so.... beyond words like indiscribable. This is a typical Mario game;
 
  Same story base - you save Peach, the danzel in distress, Same music - Toytime etc. , Same power-ups 
 - Fire flower ,Rainbow star, mushooms etc.
  It's all of this and more : You can take ice flower and walk on water and fly with bee mushroom 
 even be a ghost (Boo) for God's sake. They also also a new range of techniques such as spinning, 
 long jumps, wall kick etc. 
  You can collect lots of tasty star bits (that apparently taste like honey) to shoot an enermys 
 and feed to Hungery Lumas so they can become galaxys. There so many other features that make the 
 game just so great. 
  
  Especially Rosalina; whom in the game she is showed as powerful (protecting the galaxys) yet motherely (over 
 the lumas) sort of figure. And her storybook just makes the game. 
  As you collect more and more stars you begin to unlock more of her storybook, in the libery where 
 she sits and resites it the luma and Mario (or Luigi) . 
  On one part of the book as I have discovered by this quote - ' Her mother, as she reveals in a 
 poignant euphemism for death, is "sleeping under the tree on the hill." ' made me so sad that her 
 mother is dead.
  i'd like to say at the at the end of the book it makes me argree with this quote - ' The story 
 ultimately rebounds, as our heroine accepts this truth and embraces her new family. But this ending 
 is, of course, bittersweet.'
  
  The start is joyful and exciting and the ending make you feel touched by the poingant beauty of 
 it but none the less triumphant and happy. 
  
  To conclude it's a fun, actionpacked, a nice mixture of love and cuteness (luma + toads... lol) . 
 The sound track is just amazing like: Gusty Garden, Toytime and even the Credits.
  
  
  
  Quotes from:
  http://www. gamasutra. com/php-bin/news_index. php? story=18472
  
  Also check 
 out this funny comic by Cartoony:
  http://www2. nsider2. com/forums/lofiversion/index. php/t894. html 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kablay
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Well, I've officially given up on this game. I had another review, but I decided to re-write it 
 after finalizing my decision on this game. Basically, playing Super Mario Galaxy makes me mad. 
 I kept playing because I was sure that it would get fun eventually, and maybe I would get a break 
 from feeling constantly frustrated, but I never did. I have, like, 105 stars I think, and all I 
 have left are the extremely annoying purple coin stars and some random one-off galaxy stars to 
 get. But I need to stop wasting my time on this game because it's not worth it. Anyway, let's get 
 to the review:
  
  Graphics:
  Good. Great, even. But graphics can only do so much. I mean, does it really matter how clear I 
 look falling into a black hole over and over? And how detailed can black be? That's most of the 
 background anyway, which gets really depressing and ominous, which makes this game not as fun as 
 it could have been. It could have had PS3 graphics but it still would have sucked. So yeah, graphics 
 don't help this game.
  
  Sound:
  Meh. There have only been a few games that have impressed me w/their sound (FFX, Pokemon Di/Pe/Pl, 
 etc.) , and this one isn't one of them. If I'd liked it more to get to a point where I would just 
 play hours on end I probably would have just muted it and played a CD, so yeah, the sound isn't 
 amazing or anything.
  
  Gameplay:
  Finally, the root of the many, many problems with this game. Hmm, where to start... I think I'll 
 begin w/the most obvious problem: the lack of control in this game. It took me the entire game 
 to get "good" at maneuvering Mario. So yeah, this game has a HUGE learning curve. One example is 
 that Mario has to do a slow jog before he starts running, so you have to have head starts a lot 
 if you plan to get any distance w/jumps, or want to run away from enemies in time.
  
  Another problem is the fact that the game is merciless. If only 3 health points isn't proof enough 
 then I don't know what is. I mean, I guess it doesn't matter as much because a lot of the time 
 you don't even have enough time to lose those 3 health points before getting bumped off the edge 
 into a black hole.
  
  And then there are the "comet" stars. Whoever came up with this is obviously a heartless douchebag 
 because they are SO annoying and NOT worth the effort you have to put into them. They come in three 
 (four if you count the purple coin comets that come after you get a certain amount of stars) kinds; 
 cosmic, speedy, and daredevil. Cosmic isn't that big of a deal -- all you have to do is race shadow 
 Mario. Speedy and daredevil are the tough ones. Speedy comets time you to do a certain world, and 
 you have NO extra time at all. Daredevil is by far the worst; you have ONE health point the entire 
 time, and you can't get more. One hit and you're dead. And with some of the complexity of the worlds 
 it can get pretty insane because it's just SO horribly frustrating. It took me AT LEAST 10 tries 
 to get some daredevil stars, but it's not like it got any easier. The purple coin comets are the 
 new "100-coin stars." They make you have to collect a certain amount of purple coins to get the 
 star, and in some worlds it's timed. I actually got all the coins once, but it still timed me to 
 get the star -- I had 8 seconds left and it appeared WAY away from me. I hate this game.
  
  Another annoying thing is the lack of variety, yet the lack of continuity. Remember the large, 
 vivid, expansive worlds of 64 and Sunshine? Well, those have been replaced with "generally themed" 
 areas that have a central area, but then you just get thrust off to different "planets" to get 
 different stars. It's really stupid because you can't really experience a world you liked more 
 than once. But it wouldn't matter because there's pretty much nothing distinguishing about the 
 worlds accept the atmosphere, which doesn't really matter. Pretty much every puzzle just uses gravity 
 tricks, which are really predictable and boring. Sometimes you might turn into a Bee, a Boo, or 
 Fire or Ice Mario, but only in worlds in which they would make sense. And it's pretty obvious what 
 you have to do once you get them, which makes them pretty forgettable. It's not like in 64 where 
 each different hat would be in all the worlds and you would have to use them differently or together 
 to get different stars; it's just really linear, and if it weren't for the horrible controls and 
 unforgiving nature it would be way too easy.
  
  One last thing that annoys me to no end is how you're upside-down and on walls and crap all the 
 time. The controls are already hard enough -- I don't want to control Mario AND make him walk forward 
 when forward is backward and backward is forward because I'm upside down and the camera won't let 
 me see what I'm doing. It's pretty gimmicky, really. It's pretty much the only thing that makes 
 it unique, but uniqueness doesn't make it good. At all.
  
  Replay:
  The only way I would replay this game is w/P2; a second person can play and help you collect star 
 bits and freeze enemies, which can really come in handy, but it wouldn't really matter in the harder 
 worlds because enemies are the least of your problems, and you'll have enough star bits to last 
 a life time. Otherwise I would never replay this game again in my life.
  
  Tilt:
  I hate this game. I can't see why people like it. It's unforgiving and frustrating and just maddening 
 to play. Maybe I can sell it...
  
  Conclusion:
  Don't buy this game. Don't rent this game. Don't play it at a friend's house; if they're really 
 your friend they won't let you. This game gets less fun as you play it, so don't be deceived by 
 the easiness at first because it gets hard REALLY fast! I was already frustrated on the first world... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djwood84
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is about as polished as games come. There is virtually no game-play element 
 that doesn't shine from the obvious love and attention it received. It's arguably the best artistic 
 graphics on the Wii (save perhaps Okami) , the soundtrack is so nostalgic you can't help but smile, 
 and the controls set forth in SM64 are refined to the point of perfection. 
  
  Its a well known fact that Nintendo systems often lack great 3rd party games. But as far as first 
 party games go, Nintendo owners often find themselves playing through memorable games that have 
 some invisible quality, standing out from all other games. Perhaps its just my childhood talking, 
 the hours upon hours spent leading Mario through his drug induced fantasy... but SMG is wonderful 
 and if you own a Wii, you should own this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simpsons_28
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 7, 2009 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy I originally gave a bad review. I decided to go back to it. And decided that 
 it's no Mario 64 sucsessor. But it has it's heart in the right place!
  PROS:
  Easy control.
  Beautiful graphics.
  Amazing level design.
  The star bits add for a little 
 fun.
  Amazing sound design.
  CONS:
  Terrible camera.
  Some bad swimming.
  The new characters aren't that needed. Actually just get rid of them.
  Overworld isn't as big 
 as in Mario sunshine and 64.
  Three lives doesn't help anyone.
  PRO/CON:
  New special wii mote minigames. (you might like them)
  Terrible storyline (I think mario doesn't 
 need story. But it depends who you are.)
  Buy
  Fanboys only
  No 
  RENT (Yes)
  Like I said Mario galaxy is good but extremley short and with determination can be beaten within 
 5 hours. So rent this game if you ever get the chance.
  
  So galaxy is a great mario game. Just not as good as mario 64. I would still recomend renting the 
 game. It is really short. Trust me. 
  Buy
  Fanboys only
  No 
  RENT (Yes)
  Like I said Mario galaxy is good but extremley short and with determination can be beaten within 
 5 hours. So rent this game if you ever get the chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axman89
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2009 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy........ also known as: 1001 Ingredients that make the perfect game.
  
  The Planets. The Mushrooms. The Lumas. The Star Bunnies. The Sling Stars. The Gravitational Pulls. 
 The Bees. The Penguins. The Comets. The Stars. All of this and more are crammed beautifully into 
 what is arguably Nintendo's most ambitious game.
  
  The galaxy-filled universe is vast but never daunting, and each planet of each galaxy is brilliantly 
 polished-off with the professional perfection you'd expect from Nintendo.
  
  The story hits the ground running, and it all makes sense by the end of the game. It's all really 
 magnificent; far more so than in Sunshine or 64
  
  Above all, this is what I loved about this game the most:
  
  Instead of basing the game in 
 a building or city where you are required to stumble into new worlds, Super Mario Galaxy focuses 
 on over-the-top level design. All of the levels are clearly provided in lovely vistas perched on 
 top of a comet, instead of strewn about in a frusturating landscape. What more could you ask for? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maximaltroop
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Mario Galaxy is everything i'd like to see in a game. And this is why
  
  Graphics: The Graphics in this game are the best we've seen so far for the wii. The textures are 
 what does it. The textures in the game are shiny and beautiful when displayed on a LCD flatscreen. 
 The Planets and Areas look great and it shows what the Wii can really do. The graphics are a highlight 
 of the game, but isnt my favourite thing in the game.
  
  Music: This game has the best orchestral soundtrack in gaming history, F*ck Halos alter boys singing 
 while being touched by Catholic Priests (High Brow Joke) The game sounds epic when you get to the 
 "Press Start" screen and it doesnt stop there. Each world has music that is original or a remixed 
 version of an original song. From hearing the Water Level music from Mario 1 being remixed and 
 swimming to it in 3D is pure greatness. This is the only game in history where i have considered 
 buying the soundtrack, its that good.
  
  Voice Acting: ha... ha... ha.... Critisizing a Mario game for hardly any voice acting is like making 
 fun of A Sony Fanboy because they have no good exclusives anymore, it hasnt been there for ages 
 so stop mocking it!
  
  What Can Make or Break A Game...
  
  Gameplay: This is what brings Mario Galaxy from Great standards to Amazing standards. It changes 
 it up and brings it back to form. The platforming is fun and those crazy-ass controls work well. 
 I cant help but smile when i hear Mario happily yelling as he jumps around. The gimmicky levels 
 (YES, IM POINTING AT YOU BALL MARIO) bring the games overall score down a little bit, but the fun 
 Manta Ray levels keep it up. Running around planets is fun, if the controls work with you. The 
 swimming levels are reminicent of the SMB levels and are great and fun. The games difficulty is 
 fun for children and challenging enough for adults - Yahtzee. I would agree with that. Many a time 
 have i fallen into a black hole, but its still fun! The biggest downer is that to beat the game, 
 you only need 60 stars which will take you a weekend or two. But to completely beat the game you 
 need 120 stars, which as you might guess take longer than 60 stars. Overall, Great Gameplay
  
  Mario Galaxy is one of the best games ever made (Saying that as i hump Shigeru Miyamotos leg) 
 It is fun, challenging and the music will have you humming tunes. It is definitly the best Mario 
 game to come out since Super Mario All Stars. For you Wii Renters or Borrowers, its worth the 10 
 buck rental. 
  
  Overall, i give Super Mario Galaxy 9.8/10
  
  A Must Have For All Wii Owners
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiidsduelpack
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 5:25 pm PT
Review:  The game and levels were great like any other Mario game with major differences. Mario gets powers 
 of ice and fire with the special flowers. The galaxy part is true as there are places that have 
 a large amount of gravity. Fighting Bowser is revolutionary. It is totally fighting with gravity. 
 Sure I got to admit it is easy but awesome. The sound is just amazing and the way you have to fight 
 him is awesome. You have to use the nunchuck control by moving it around sideways about two or 
 three times depending how many times you have hit him.
  
  Anyone who hasn't gotten the game should get it. 
  
  There are goods and bads during the game 
 too but luckily it doesn't affect game play. The story is just so boring. I think Nintendo should 
 make a simple story that isn't so girly and suited for both genders. This has been a problem with 
 other Mario games such as Partner in Time. Man, at the beggining of POT, the old princess peach 
 cried for a long time, which really got on my nerves. Some better songs for other levels could 
 also be neccessary. But again game play doesn't get affected much by the bad glitches.
  
  The game has 120 stars, and since the game is just right to me, it takes me a long time to get 
 the stars. I just have over 80 and I still have a long way to go. I also heard that after you are 
 done with Mario, you have the opportunity to start over again with Luigi. After that is done, then 
 you can download the game on your ds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiifun
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 5:49 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is definitely the best Mario game I've played. It amazed me from the first time 
 I started playing. To start off, the graphics are simply gorgeous. No Wii game has looked this 
 spectacular before. Everything looks so appropriate for the outer space theme. Nothing looks bad 
 in this game, and I mean it. It is just a wonder to look at.
  
  Getting down to game play, this game controls wonderfully, especially for the the type of movement 
 in this game. This game is based on little planets scattered across the map. You are always pulled 
 to the center of the planet which makes it seems like your walking upside down when you walk "off 
 the edge" of a planet. You can't really fall off the planet. Don't think it makes the game overly 
 easy though, you'll find plenty of challenge in this game. The camera never gets in the way and 
 it is pretty much solid, even for a game as unique as this. Nothing technical gets in the way of 
 you enjoying your Mario game.
  
  The game is just so vast, and it has so many levels to play. Only 60 stars are necessary to go 
 and fight Bowser, which makes beating the game possible for people who aren't the best at video 
 games, however, if you're a hardcore gamer like me, you'll go and hunt down every last one of the 
 full 120 stars. It's very satisfying and fun. You won't be disappointed.
  
  The optional co-op mode is nothing to get too excited about. However, it's not meant to be a big 
 feature in the game. It's just an added bonus, and it's not too bad for a bonus. It helps so when 
 other watch you play, they don't just have to sit there, they can actually help out a little. Just 
 make sure your partner won't try to get you killed while you're playing.
  
  This game is amazing, it may not sound like it from what I've said, but you would have to play 
 and experience it to see what it's all about. It's truly amazing how this game came together and 
 how good it all is. A must have for the Wii.
  
  Graphics:9
  sound: 9
  Controls: 10
  Gampelay: 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamannt123
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2009 2:20 pm PT
Review:  I heard this did amazing, so I tried it out for myself. I'm glad I did, because this game was simply 
 awesome in every aspect of playability, graphics, and the many worlds to explore.
  
  The story is developed in the classic mario way: peach gets kidnapped. But this time, Bowser is 
 bent on creating his own galaxy with peach by his side to help him rule over space! Mario's world 
 gets wrecked after bowser's appearance, but luckily for him, the inhabitants of the 100-year-old 
 comet (mario and friends were celebrating this very occurance before..... you know) saved him from 
 certain doom. The leader of the luma's, who looks like peach's sister, asks for mario's assistance 
 in retrieving the power stars. If he can collect enough, the observatory that they call home will 
 be able to reach peach and save the galaxy from bowser! Up for the challenge?
  
  The gameplay is definitely unique for mario. You can jump with A, swipe the wii remote to have 
 mario spin, press B to fire a star bit (which you collect by moving the pointer over them to collect 
 them) , and move around with the nunchuk controller. You move around while the pointer stays on 
 screen at the same time, creating sort of a balance of controls. Along with these simple controls 
 is the addition of various modes to transform into. These would include ice mario, bee mario, boo 
 mario, and various others that add creativeness to the game. You only have 3 segments of health, 
 which may seem to make the game harder, but actually, it works quite well, seeing as how there 
 are reasonable amounts of enemies and coins scattered to regain the health. 
  
  The observatory is the main area where you start playing. You guide mario inside different rooms 
 to look at different galaxies with different planets (worlds) . Each has a certain amount of stars 
 to collect with different missions for each. The game simplifies these tasks by providing sort 
 of a one-way path to follow. It may sound too easy, but the environments are huge, and this extra 
 help is appreciated when playing. Sometimes, the game has you walking completely upside-down due 
 to the gravity of the different areas. A nice twist, no? Actually, it makes the game that much 
 more fun. The planet's graphics and scenery are amazing when you consider the many, many areas 
 there are and all the detail that went into making everything. From enemies to allies to rocks 
 to water, everything is constructed nicely. Music in the game is good, catchy at some points.
 
  
  Overall, this game has everything you would expect from a mario title, but this has considerably 
 raised the bar. Great gameplay, various challenges, wonderous environments, and creativity throughout 
 make this an awesome experience for any gamer. I recommend this to everyone. Enjoy!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emono
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2009 3:39 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10/10
  Sounds: 10/10
  Graphics: 10/10
  Characters: 10/10
  Story: 10/10
  
  This game is an excellent all-round platformer. The Graphics, Sound and Gameplay are all presented 
 perfectly and all these points combine to present an excellent game. The Graphics are excellent 
 from the 3-D worlds to the bosses to Mario, Peach, Bowser and the rest of the playable characters 
 everything about the graphics is perfect. I think the water effects in SMG are comparable to those 
 of Halo 3. The sound is fairly simple sound effects with a wonderful sondtrack to back it, From 
 the Title music to the Bowser Battle music I think it all is excellent. The gameplay is incredibly 
 beautiful from something as simple as spinning to something as complex as flying the gameplay is 
 one point of the game that kept me hooked and kept me coming back. The Characters and story are 
 also excellent but come on. How can you go wrong with Mario, Peach, Bowser and the Classic damsel 
 in distress story? To sum it up, in my opinion this game is simply a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prince_Diamond
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2009 9:24 pm PT
Review:  What I love about this game is that it is classic Mario with a gimmick to the game that is actually 
 fun. What I mean by gimmick is the planet jumping, or the water pack from Mario Sunshine. This 
 game is complete fun, it completely makes up for the horrible Mario Sunshine game which had the 
 dumbest gimmick attached to it. Now I think that a plain old Mario game would be the best thing 
 for Nintendo to stick with, because we don't believe for a minute that Mario is so played out it 
 that it has to have a gimmick. Though this game was able to work with the gimmick and prevent Mario 
 from becoming a joke! I love how this game had just the classic Mario vs. Bowser theme we all love! 
 I also loved the planet hoping, it gave the game the perilous adrenaline rush as you try to avoid 
 falling to your death. This game is what Mario is suppose to be, not running around washing paint 
 off fat blobs wearing hula skirts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JebranRush
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 3:03 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Genius platforming and puzzles, astounding graphics and artstyle, good controls, great 
 new powerups, fairly lengthy, "Storybook" is kind of nice
  
  The Bad: Some awkward underwater moments with camera and controls, disorienting camera angle at 
 times, fairly tedious purple coin missions
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is Nintendo's Mario game for the Wii and it's definitely a big game. 
  
 
  The game starts off with a sort of storybook opening that's fairly happy and slow. A few minutes 
 later, Bowser's attacking the castle once again and kidnapping Peach. This time though, he takes 
 the whole castle with him, sort of like what he did in Paper Mario 64, only he takes everything 
 to space. Mario finds himself trying to rescue Peach as usual and is cast into space. This whole 
 scene is so well done and just incredibly cinematic that you can't help but just stare in amazement 
 at it.
  
  When Mario wakes up, an odd bunny creature is watching him. This bunny tells Mario that if he can 
 catch him and his friends, then he will tell him where he is. Here you have to catch this rabbit 
 and his two other friends on a spherical planetoid that introduces you to what you will later see 
 in the game. Super Mario Galaxy takes you upside down and all around from the beginning. Once you 
 find and catch these rabbits, you find out you're on a passing ship of sorts where several luma's 
 (star creatures that you find out that the rabbits actually are) live along with their "mother" 
 Princess Rosalina. She tells you that Bowser has stolen the power stars that powered her ship and 
 that she is stuck. As Mario, it's pretty much your duty to help her. 
  
  The first few levels introduce you to the game and the controls. It's all very easy to learn and 
 such because the controls really aren't that hard to learn. By shaking the Wii-mote, you can make 
 Mario spin (you can also do this with the Nunchuk but it might feel a bit uncomfortable compared 
 to the Wii-mote) . As for the camera, you're able to control it the D-pad to a decent amount of 
 settings. Some areas limit your camera controlling abilities because the situation you're in might 
 be made worse if you were to control the camera manually. Most of the time though, the game works 
 the camera for you and you don't need to worry about it. The areas that are the most annoying instances 
 of both the camera and controls are with swimming underwater. You can get used to it after a while 
 but it still feels a bit odd trying to reach and object when the camera sort of wrecks your depth 
 perception.
  
  The platforming itself is brilliant. It takes the original Mario platforming and all that and puts 
 a radical twist on it with the factor of gravity and space. Some areas of the game have distorted 
 gravity and arrows point to which way the gravity goes. Running and jumping are what Mario platformers 
 are known forbut upside down? It's crazy but it works well, despite some confusing controls and 
 camera angle issues that sometimes occur. 
  
  The graphics are easily the best seen on the Wii. It's definitely technically proficient and shows 
 what the Wii can do. It's not entirely the technical aspect of it, but the art style of it. The 
 rich colours and backgrounds are gorgeous and are great eye candy. Mario hasn't looked so good. 
 Mario Galaxy isn't afraid to use such bright colours. It makes the game feel alive.
  
  The audio aspect is also on par with the rest of the game's quality. Orchestrated masterpieces 
 inhabit the game's levels so that each tune fits with the level's environments. There are some 
 remixes as well that will definitely spark a part of your memory. Overall though, the songs aren't 
 the most memorable but they sound great and fit in properly. Sound effects are reminiscent of some 
 past Mario games (such as the famous mushroom sound and coin collect sounds) but the majority of 
 them are new. 
  
  Overall, Super Mario Galaxy is a stunning game that revives the platforming genre. The care and 
 detail that went into making the game is clearly shown. Despite some minor camera and control issues, 
 Galaxy pushes the Mario series forward in a big way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackhawkBix
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 10:46 am PT
Review:  Wow Mario has come so far since the 2-D scrolling NES days. He used to look like a bug, now he's 
 a fully fleshed 3-D cartoonish character. It seems like you can almost see the advancement in console 
 gaming, just by looking at the Mario franchise.
  
  The great thing about Super Mario Galaxy, is it's just plain fun. Period. The visuals are beautiful, 
 the levels are expertly designed, and the gameplay runs smoothly. It's almost a perfectly flawless 
 game.
  
  It seems like a lot of games these days are made more to sell than to actually be fully enjoyed 
 and remembered for the gameplay. SMG is the complete opposite, and gets it all accomplished without 
 being violent.
  
  In the game you get to experience 3-D fully. You not only get to run on the topsides of environment, 
 but beneath them and on their sides. Mario traverses these richly detailed 3-D environments by 
 running, swimming, ice skating and flying.
  
  One of the great features is all the different forms Mario takes. There's the classic Fire Mario, 
 Ice Mario, Bee Mario, Slinky Mario, Flying Mario, and more.
  
  Another fantastic feature is that the game doesn't have to be played fully through level to level 
 like most of the old Mario games. You can jump from galaxy to galaxy collecting the game's needed 
 stars. If there is an environment that is too difficult, you can simply fly to another galaxy and 
 try your hand there.
  
  The story is just another simple Mario story. Princess Peach has been kidnapped by the vllain Bowser, 
 and it's up to Mario to save her. You do this by jumping from galaxy to galaxy, fighting unique 
 and cool bosses, and collecting power stars.
  
  The game just begs to be played as soon as you start. It's an irrestible platformer that shows 
 why Mario has lasted as long as he has, and why he's the face of console gaming.
  
  The only annoyance with the game is the sometime quirky controls. The Wii remote can either be 
 great or a hinderance. It manages to pull of both of these in the game. The controls are still 
 great 90 to 95% of the time, so it shouldn't be a factor at all in deciding whether you want to 
 give it a try or not.
  
  Simply put Super Mario Galaxy deserves all the fame and awards it has received. It will be remembered 
 in the Gaming World for years to come. For anyone out there who knocks this game, that's easily 
 explained: They haven't played it yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dickvanwrinkle
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2009 11:11 am PT
Review:  I have had a lot of fun playing this game. Hours litterally passed by before I realized just how 
 sucked in I was. It is good clean fun. You can't go wrong with Mario. I think it is a little above 
 my Son's ability but I an sure he will get the hang of it eventually. It is a nice change from 
 the shoot em up games I normally play. I highly reccomend this game for your kids. Fun and violence 
 free (unless you are offended by squashing fictional evil mushrooms) . I found it fun on an adult 
 level as well as for the kids. This is the first game we tried on your Wii. It took us a little 
 while to get used the the Nunchuck but not too long. The 3D world made me a little queezy at first 
 but I got used to it. It isn't HD graphix but you quickly forget about that once you get sucked 
 into the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stAmbrosius
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2009 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Mario Galaxy is a fantastic game and i loved playing it.
  There were so many magical Nintendo-moments and the game keeps entertaing and providing new and 
 different challenges. It's the best Mario game i've ever played. Once again the Princess was kidnapped 
 by the King of Koopas Bowser. Mario has to search the galaxy in order to rescue her. You can finish 
 the game by getting 60 stars, but getting all 120 is much more rewarding. Mario jumps, swims, flies 
 through the most fantastic environments you have ever seen. Each platform has it's own gravity 
 so at times Mario is floating through the air from one planetoid to another. This using the wii-mote 
 lets you play a game like no other in the galaxy. Gigantic Toy Robots, spaceships, volcanoes it 
 goes on and on... This is a must have for all wii owners.
  Like Nintendo Mario is more brilliant then ever before! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Dark-Gamer
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2009 4:05 pm PT
Review:  This one little game actually resurrected the genre of the Platform with it's amazing game play 
 it's outstanding visuals but has the very predictable Super Mario story. However even with that 
 the game is great. The music is sometimes so good that you actually find yourself humming them 
 throughout the level there in. Plus after the games that Nintendo has released recently you know 
 that it goes against there motto of "it's good enough" and into the phrase "That's Incredible!!!". 
 The 30 or so Galaxies are not also great to look at but they mostly don't disappoint on mission 
 selections. Plus the power-ups you receive are all pretty cool in there own subtle way. This Mario 
 game has even used gravity as a gimmick but unlike "Super Mario Sunshine" this gimmick makes the 
 gameplay a lot more enjoyable. This game is a revolutionary wonder that has been praised by hundreds 
 of critics and so far they all have their work cut out for them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foomf11
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 4, 2009 12:24 pm PT
Review:  This was, in truth, a very good game. Although I was not too crazy about the multiplay ( All 2nd 
 player can be is a mini star that shoots rather large stars) it still has great gameplay gorgeous 
 graphics, and a seemingly predictible storyline. So, buy it if you are a fan of mario or sonic, 
 don't buy it if you are not fond of a bad multiplayer game. Well, that's all for 2day gaming fans. 
 Remember what i  
 bbl bbl bbl bbl bbl bbl bbl bbl bbl bbl bbl bbl bbl bbl bbl bbl bbl bbl bbl bbl bbl bbl bbl bbl 
 bbl bbl bbl bbl bbl bbl bbl 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woman4games
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Alrighty folks, here's the deal. I love Mario and all his games. In all my years, I have never 
 come across one that I didn't like. But you know that saying "there's a first time for everything?" 
 You guessed it. I have finally found one that I geniuinely didn't like. And Galaxy is it. Let's 
 examine why.
  
  I like to start off with the goods first and being that there aren't many, this shouldn't take 
 too long. Don't get me wrong, the game isn't all bad. In fact, the graphics are gorgeous. I think 
 the Lumas are so cute! (After all, I am a girl.) Rosalina is a welcome character to the series, 
 and I hope to see her in future titles. Bowser looks as big and bad as ever, and that's always 
 a plus. But folks, the good points stop there.
  
  Now, onto the meat of this review: the bads! Because they are numerous (in my opinion, anyway) 
 I will present them in list format. Here goes!
  
  *The !^%$# camera. I hate the damn camera. I'll be running along my merry way when suddenly, the 
 camera does a complete 180 on me. Now I'm frantically trying to adjust to the flip-flopped controls, 
 all while a damn goomba is charging at me. And thanks to the weird angle, I can't tell where I'll 
 land when I jump. I prefer to look over the character's shoulder or a 3rd person view, not a damn 
 bird's eye and upside down vantage point. 
  
  *This leads me to my next point. I DO NOT LIKE THE WHOLE UPSIDE-DOWN CONCEPT. Not only is it frustrating 
 and confusing, but it's dizzying. This is one element that I hope disappears in all future titles. 
 I can take it in small doses, but when half the game is spent literally having to stand on your 
 head to get from point A to point B....... no thanks. 
  
  *The quests in general. Sure, they are straightforward enough, but most are repetitive and downright 
 maddening. For instance, in the Toy Time galaxy, your job is to run across a retro Mario collecting 
 the small stars that will fuse together forming the big star. Sounds easy enough, right? Wrong. 
 Try doing it on a floor that disappears, flips, has holes, and the rest made of molten lava. That 
 to me is more frustrating than fun. 
  
  *Speaking of repetitive, how many times exactly did Peach send the same letter to Mario? You know 
 it's bad when you've got the content memorized. Didn't she have anything else to say? Like ok, 
 maybe she could've told us how today, Bowser forced her to have dinner with him and then proposed. 
 Something. Anything other than "I'm in a faraway place, but I'm alright because you're coming to 
 save me!" We got it, we got it! Nintendo missed its golden opportunity to make the story a bit 
 deeper via her letters. Think in the vein of Resident Evil. 
  
  *The soundtrack. Point made simple, I just didn't care for the majority of it. If I wanted to hear 
 clasical music, I'd go to the New York symphony. This music just didn't fit in a Mario game. And 
 the sound effects weren't much better: I got tired of hearing that buzzer warning me about only 
 being 1 pie slice away from death. 
  
  *The races. I think Nintendo is better off keeping races where they belong in Mario Kart Wii. (I 
 have a very positive review of that game, btw.) They can be described in one word: maddening. Ever 
 try racing cosmic Mario? He is ridiculously fast. It was sheer luck to be able to beat him. And 
 how about those water races on the mana ray? Don't even get me started. One misstep and you're 
 right back at the beginning, no matter how far you were. Again, more frustrating than fun. Especially 
 when you have to do them over. And over. And over. And.............. 
  
  I really could keep going on about how much this game just didn't do it for me. I hope that this 
 isn't the new trend in Mario's future titles. (Thank God for Brawl and Mario Kart Wii.) If it is, 
 you can count me out of the next midnight line-up for the next game. While I don't believe for 
 a second that Mario is losing his magic, this is one trend that I hope doesn't continue. I'll take 
 his older stuff over this any day of the week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tktomo01
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2009 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Hope you got the joke in the review deck. Anyway, SMG is about, you guessed it, Mario (its in the 
 title) . This time Mario takes to space to collect stars and save Peach (surprise, surprise) . So 
 how does this Mario adventure pan out? To be 2007 game of the year, and Mario's best game since 
 Super Mario Bros 3, thats what!
  
  The game starts in Mushroom Kingdom, and its the Star Festival, where a comet that passes every 
 century is currently going over. Its all fun and happy, and Peach wants you to visit the castle, 
 and your off on your merry way. When you reach the castle however, Bowser decided to steal Peach 
 by ripping out the entire castle from the ground with an airship, and he mentions something about 
 an evil galaxy, and off he and Peach goes into the sky. From here, Mario is taken to space, with 
 the help of a gal named Rosalina and a ton of live little stars called Luma's (which you collect) 
 aboard the comet. Now you must collect stars and grand stars to power the comet you are aboard 
 to go to the center of the universe and save Peach. 
  
  Story: I ofen hear of people complaining all about the story being to familiar, and really lacking, 
 but I found the story book and just the theme of it to bring it all together quite nicely. Simple 
 and familiar, and yet, if you dig deep, there is more to it than meets the eye.
  
  Graphics: This and Prime 3 have to be the best looking Wii games. The level designs are fantastic 
 and zany, yet deviously challenging. The levels actually aren't on full fledged planets, rather 
 these things just floating around in space. It definately captures the feel of the cosmos, just 
 no aliens. The gravity physics are also surprisingly great, and Mario can jump from one thing to 
 the next. From an artistic standpoint it can't get any better. From a technical standpoint it can't 
 get any better (on the Wii at least) .
  
  Gameplay/Controls: Mario controls perfectly, and the camera is nowhere near as menacing as before. 
 The Wiimote is used a fair bit, by pointing it at the screen and collecting star bits, which can 
 be shot to stun enemies or used to unlock new levels and such, and shaking it launches Mario through 
 star launching things, as well as several other quirks. Mario has a fairly simple moveset, mostly 
 jumping and spinning. You can also use power-ups like Bee Mario, Spring Mario, Fire Mario, and 
 so on. Puzzles and dastardly challenges are abundunt. Perfection.
  
  Sound: This might be the best soundtrack for a Ninteno game ever. It sets the mood oh-so well, 
 and it can be upbeat, lonely, sad, happy, epic, and so much more. It also includes some tunes old 
 Mario fans ought to recognize. If thats not enough, how about FULLY ORCHESTRATED. Now only if Zelda 
 could get this treatment... Sound effects aren't really much, just little beeps and gibberish, 
 but very well done beeps and gibberish.
  
  Other: A fun little co-op mode is available, where one player controls same as ever, and player 
 two gets an additional cursor with abilites to help out player one. Its a great way to introduce 
 casuals to the realm of gaming without shovelware. You can also play as Luigi when you have collected 
 120 stars, a cool addition.
  
  Final Word: A true masterpeice from Nintendo. If there is any reason to buy a Wii, its this. 10/10, 
 5 stars, A+, you get it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreatShogun
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2009 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy- a great game that had great programmers.
  I never DID get all the stars in the game, but it has: a. Great graphics, b. extensive gameplay, 
 or c. Both a and b? The answer is c. Seriously, the game has great graphics, extensive gameplay, 
 etc.
  
  The surprising secrets always had me exploring in this game. Secrets like:
  o Secret Stars
  o The Green Stars
  o Green Trial Galaxies
  and so on. So if you have the 
 money, buy it to see how GREAT this game is.
  I would also recommend that you rent the game first. Just to see if you like it.
  I mean, If 
 you don't like the game you don't like it. Also, there are some fun Galaxies like:
  o Buoy Base
  o Bowser Jr.'s Robot Reactor
  So thusly this game is GREAT for all Mario lovers. 
 Be sure to get it if you like Mario, and here's a spoiler! You get to play ass Luigi once you get 
 121 stars.
  Which was explained in the Hints & Cheats page. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimmi323
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Going to keep this short since I'm a bit late in posting this...
  
  This game is awesome, simply put. It has some of the best graphics available on Wii, even a year 
 and a half later. It has Wii controls that work very well and play up the strengths and play down 
 the weaknesses (ie: Little waggle, good use of IR) . The gameplay is simply Mario goodness. The 
 new gravity element is well implemented and adds a lot to the already polished Mario platforming 
 formula. On top of this, the level design is some of the best ever, and makes excellent use of 
 the interesting gravity without overusing it.
  
  My only issue is the difficulty. It's a bit on the easy side. You can easily rack up several dozen 
 lives after a couple levels. However, this is remedied slightly after the first 60 stars and on 
 the second playthrough with Luigi.
  
  If you haven't bought it already, do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Algaeisgreat
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2009 5:00 am PT
Review:  Another 3D outing from the Italian plumber, with a lot of hype to live up to and the awful Mario 
 Sunshine to make up for......
  
  And its a corker! Because of the use of the Wii Remote, it makes 3D platforming that little bit 
 different. You can swing your way up vines by waggling the remote from side to side, and use it 
 for balancing on what can only be described as oversized pinballs, as well as all the usual jumping, 
 pounding punching etc. It still has that very profound Nintendo feel to it, but delivers some innovative 
 uses in the process.
  
  Visually, the game makes good use of the graphics capabilitles of the Wii and provides a nice variety 
 of levels, from sand-dunes to industrial levels and of course, Boo's haunted mansion. The host 
 of NPC's is also good, although you may want to strangle the rabbits after a while. Appearances 
 are made by a surprising amount of old faces (goombas, toads etc) and ...... yes, Bowser.
  
  One of my favourite things about the game is the musical score. When you first start on Rosalina's 
 ship-thing, it is the barest of orchestral scores. As you unlock more levels, the brass and strings 
 sections are added - and it sounds great.
  
  The difficulty level varied considerably throughout the game, with some stars being collected first 
 time, and others taking about 65 frustrating attempts. (Like getting 99 purple coins then falling 
 off a ledge due to a dodgy camera angle) Boss Battles are plentiful, although a little too easy 
 in most cases.
  
  All in all, a sterling effort and easily returning Mario to his N64 glory status. Buy this game 
 and you won't regret it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOLhahaDEAD
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2009 12:33 pm PT
Review:  It was over 10 years in the making, but finally, the true successor to Super Mario 64 has been 
 thrust upon Nintendo fans! Now don't get me wrong, Super Mario Sunshine on the GameCube was a decent 
 game. Personally, I played it quite a bit, but it wasn't what we wanted. Fast forward to E3 2006, 
 and Super Mario Galaxy is unveiled. Finally, it was like Nintendo had realized what fans really 
 wanted in the next Mario title. After all this hype, it seems like SMG had a lot to live up to. 
 So does it meet all of the extremely high expectations from the gaming community? You bet!
  
  To put it simply, Super Mario Galaxy is absolutely stunning. Every corner of the game can take 
 your breath away. The way the game works, the way everything is designed, everything is just fantastic. 
 The concept of the game is simple. You play as Mario, obviously, and you travel to different planets, 
 big and small, all around the universe. Sounds interesting, right? Well it gets better.
  
  So with that being said, why the heck is Mario in space, how did he get there, what exactly is 
 he trying to achieve. If you think it has anything to do with Bowser and Princess Peach, then you're 
 exactly right. Mario receives a letter from Princess Peach (sound familiar?) , inviting him to join 
 her for the centennial Star festival. Just as Mario is about to participate in some festivities, 
 Bowser swoops out of the skies, in the airships from Super Mario Bros. 3, no less, and executes 
 his plan to kidnap the Princess, along with her entire castle! He uses a giant saucer to do so, 
 and escapes to outer space with Princess in hand. Whilst trying to stop Bowser, Mario ends up getting 
 sent flying, and lands on a strange distant planet.
  
  After a quick tutorial level, Mario eventually meets Rosalina, the Lumas, and begins his quest. 
 This is where the game really begins. There really isn't much in the way of story in Super Mario 
 Galaxy. During the course of the game, not much really happens. Eventually you can unlock Rosalina's 
 library, where you can read a story book describing the mysterious Princess' past and purpose. 
 That's about it, but it is a Mario game, so the story isn't really too important, is it? No, the 
 game play is the most important part. So how is it? Once you get to the Observatory, you'll find 
 out.
  
  The Observatory is the main hub of the game, which is run by the new character Rosalina. The observatory 
 itself has a few different sections, and most of these sections contain portals which allow you 
 to travel to the game's different galaxies. When you choose to go to a galaxy, each one being unlocked 
 by collecting a set number of stars, you can choose which mission you want to play for that galaxy. 
 You then blast off to that galaxy and attempt to complete the goal you chose. The whole system 
 works really well, and is somewhat similar to how the paintings worked in Super Mario 64.
  
  Each galaxy, and the planets they contain, usually has its own theme. You'll find yourself 
 on planets covered in lava or frozen in ice, like most games with themed levels. However, there 
 are a few creative ones as well, like a whole level made of desserts or one composed of gigantic 
 toys. The diversity in the level design tends to be quirky and beautiful simultaneously.
  
  Some of the planets are extremely small, which you can completely traverse in a matter of seconds, 
 while other are pretty large, and can take quite a while to complete. Once you finish discovering 
 each nook and cranny of a planet, you fly to the next by hopping into a launch star and shaking 
 the Wii remote. Each galaxy has a few different missions to complete, each with its own star to 
 get, and a few hidden stars here and there. There are plenty of different mission types, such as 
 getting to the end of the level, defeating a boss, racing Shadow Mario around the area, and a lot 
 more. Occasionally, different "comets" will appear in a galaxy, which give you a special goal with 
 a few strict rules, like dying in one hit or having to reach the goal in a certain amount of time. 
 Each one manages to keep the experience fresh and exciting, so you are never doing the same thing 
 over and over again.
  
  So now I bet you're wondering, "Since this game is on the Wii, aren't there some sort of cool, 
 crazy motion controls?" Well, the answer is yes. Although, which is what's great about this game, 
 is that they are kept to a minimum. The only to time you really use motion controls are for performing 
 the spin attack, pointing to shoot star bits, shaking the remote to fly from a launch star, and 
 to perform any special attacks that come with the game's power-ups. Speaking of power-ups, there 
 are quite a few of them. All of them are pretty cool, and fun to use, and there's even the classic 
 Fire Mario form, which, of course, allows you to shoot fireballs by shaking the Wii remote.
  
  The rest of the controls in the game are fairly simple. You press A to jump and swim, press 
 the B trigger to fire star bits, press the Z button to crouch, and use the analog stick to move 
 around. Most of the actions you perform require no motion controls, which was the smart choice 
 to make. I mean, no one wants to jump by flicking the Nunchuk upwards. (I'm looking at you, Ninjabread 
 Man.)
  
  On the technical side of things, there is a lot going on with this game. Graphically, the game 
 is absolutely wonderful, especially because it's a Wii game. The whole universe of the game, and 
 I mean that literally, is covered from head to toe in bright colors, great lighting and particle 
 effects, and smooth looking models. The art style is beautiful; it's simple, yet effective. I found 
 myself going "whoa" on multiple instances, and would stop to just take in how great everything 
 looks. Eye candy galore!
  
  As for the audio, it's honestly some of the best sound design ever. The worlds are supported by 
 beautiful orchestral scores. There are new tracks and remixes of old songs, which sounds completely 
 awesome. In addition, most of the classic sound effects are used here and there, so that is really 
 nice. The speaker in the Wii remote is also used to some extent, although that speaker has never 
 been that great, so it still sounds a little grainy.
  
  Really though, the most technically impressive aspect of the game is neither the graphics nor the 
 sound. It's the physics engine. Every planet has its own gravitational pull. On smaller planets 
 you can jump great heights and distances, sometimes even leaping over the whole planet in one go. 
 On the other hand, larger planetary bodies can have a greater pull. The physics on these are much 
 more realistic. If it were not for the wonderful implementation of the physics, this game would 
 not be nearly as good as it is.
  
  You only need to collect 60 of the 120 stars to gain access to the final boss, but you can keep 
 going after you defeat him. After you collect all 120 you can replay the entire game as Luigi, 
 which is cool because Luigi usually has a different jump than Mario, and that stays true in this 
 game as well. There's also a neat little multiplayer mode that allows a second player to help the 
 first player by performing certain tasks with their own cursor. The thing is, that's the only thing 
 they can do, and it's fairly boring for the second player. Additionally, there a few more features 
 you can play around with like taking a picture of you scores for each planet and sending them to 
 your friends or posting them to the Wii message board.
  
  The only real problem with the game is that it's too easy. I mean, it is way too easy. It's almost 
 to the point that where some levels are completely laughable. But that really is SMG's only flaw, 
 and that doesn't ever prevent it from being fun.
  
  There's a lot to do in this game, and it will last you quite a while. I would go as far to say 
 that it's almost not even a game; it really is its own experience. So does Super Mario Galaxy deserve 
 the title as rightful successor to Super Mario 64's revolutionary legacy? Yes, yes it does. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kappazilla996
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2009 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Since 1985 the Super Mario Bros. franchise has been one of if not the most recognizable series 
 ever, just like the Colonel says in Brawl, "There's probably not a single person who doesn't know 
 Mario." This game is no letdown, the graphics and visuals are absolutely stunning, the controls 
 are the best I've seen, the story, well, the 'rescue the maiden in distress' theme has gotten old, 
 that's why we had "Super Princess Peach." The game-play is like nothing in a Mario game before, 
 you now have two main options of defeating an enemy, the classic jumping, and a new spin attack. 
 You also get new power-ups like Ice, Bee, Spring, and Rainbow Mario, but we still have Fire Mario 
 too. The bad part is that these power-ups don't appear as often as in previous Mario titles.
  
  The game begins with Mario (or Luigi) getting a letter from Peach as an invitation to the "Star 
 Festival" held every hundred years. As soon as you get within sight of the castle, Bowser, Bowser 
 Jr. and the Doom Sip fleet attack and destroy anything in its way. Bowser then lifts the Castle 
 into space, along with the princess, and Mario is knocked unconscious trying to help her. You then 
 meet the Lumas, tiny star-like creatures similar to the stars in SM64, and Rosalina, princess of 
 the stars, and caretaker (mama) to the Lumas, who eventually TRAAAANSFOORM into stars, comets, 
 galaxies, planets, etc.
  
  After getting 60 out of the 120 stars in the game you can fly to the center of the universe to 
 save Peach in an epic final showdown with the King of Koopas himself. After you defeat Gamera, 
 I-I mean Bowser, the universe he was trying to create and rule with Peach starts to collapse into 
 a black hole. In a last ditch effort to save the universe, the Lumas combine to stop the black 
 hole. After which Rosalina gives you a speech on how baby stars can become gigantic galxies, etc. 
 Then you arrive back on the Mushroom Kingdom, along with Bowser, Peach, and all the species you 
 met along the way. The game ends with Mario saying, "WELCOME! WELCOME, NEW GALAXY!." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkyGTRline
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2009 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Where does one begin when describing such a phenomenal masterpiece that far exceeds what high expectations 
 there were for this game? Simply put, regardless of whether you're a fan of platformers or not, 
 this is one game you will not want to miss out on as it draws everyone in back to the roots of 
 what ignited the gaming industry when it was on life support. The general consensus is that ever 
 since the legendary Super Mario 64, there hasn't been a game that revolutionized the platformer 
 genre in such a way. Well, the long awaited game to fulfill such an arduous role has finally arrived.
 
  
  Right from the start of the game you're drawn into the redundant plot for every Mario game; Bowser 
 is up to no good and you've got to stop him. Then again, Mario games have never put much emphasis 
 into its plot and storyline - instead focusing on intuitive and often-times revolutionary gameplay.
 
  
  Nintendo's traditional concept of easy to pickup, difficult to master controls has been proven 
 to be a tried and true formula for many of its games and the same holds true here. With a wave 
 of the Wii-Mote, Mario spins. Time three taps of A while moving forward and Mario does a hi-jump 
 at the final tap. Shake the Wii-Mote while Mario is in the air and he'll hover for a second, a 
 useful maneuver for pinpoint decisions. Most importantly, all of this is incorporated with a unique 
 space theme with emphasis on how gravity affects your every action. You'll find that you can often 
 times jump off of platforms that seemingly lead to nowhere, only to have gravity pull you under 
 the platform itself - where you continue your journey. The possibilities of such well integrated 
 gameplay leaves many unique possibilities to be explored and Super Mario Galaxy does not disappoint 
 with its execution of such features that you will not find in any other game. As soon as you've 
 become accustomed with the controls, everything else seems second nature, becomes a breeze and 
 you'll realize that it is games such as this that sets the Wii apart from its competitors, as it 
 is only possible on the Wii. The many galaxies you'll traverse are never repetitive, as each galaxy 
 has its own playstyle determined from its unique theme on anything from lava worlds, ice worlds, 
 sky gardens, caves, water worlds, haunted mansions, gigantic robotic contraptions, seaside beaches, 
 battleships and through space itself - the seemingly endless list goes on. All of this is done 
 on a very smart, responsive and ideal camera system that works perfectly 99% of the time, following 
 and accurately portraying your every action.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is arguably among the, if not the best looking Wii game. One of the first of 
 its kind to show the potential of the console, something that can hardly be said with the majority 
 of the games. Everything from heat distortion, explosions, reflections and shimmers is incredibly 
 detailed and well animated, all integrated with Super Mario Galaxy's own unique style of art.
 
  
  The music is also phenomenally well orchestrated and brilliantly composed including many of the 
 classic scores you've come to love and expect on Mario games - all in seamless harmony as you play 
 - an absolute aural delight from start to finish. It really doesn't get any better than this.
 
  
  In the end, Super Mario Galaxy is a breath of fresh air and what all games should ultimately live 
 up to: addictive, compelling, mind-blowing fun that improves upon the wheel - instead of redefining 
 what isn't broken into a gimmick. This has been a very enjoyable ride leaving many gamers such 
 as myself asking for more. If you are a Wii owner that appreciates what the console stands for, 
 there shouldn't be any reason this game isn't already in your library. There is a reason why this 
 game was nominated Game of the Year 2007 on both IGN and here at Gamespot.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chiefxc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 1:11 pm PT
Review:  If you own a WII, you MUST buy this game... no renting. Incredible gameplay never gets old. Innovative 
 controls can be funky (only thing preventing a perfect rating in my opinion) sometimes but are 
 very fluid. The level designs are simply brilliant. The graphics are stellar for a WII game, and 
 everything looks polished and magnificent. The camera also can be tricky sometimes, but corrects 
 itself almost immediately. There is actually a story aside from the typical rescue Peach monotony 
 which is refreshing to know you are playing for something else than the broad. One of the best 
 soundtracks for a Mario game I can remember. Even after you beat it once, there is no reason not 
 to beat it again.
  
  Compared to Sunshine, this is well worth the wait and a testament to the work Nintendo has put 
 into their console. If you have a WII and never play this game, you might as well return it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blue4avenger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 6:25 am PT
Review:  Without telling too much about the story, I can say that Princess Peach for once did NOT get abducted 
 from her castle. But to save her anyway, Mario has to let go of the soil and exchange it for the 
 interplanetary space roads which he has to save from Bowsers vermin. Super Mario Galaxy brags with 
 being the first Mario in space but someone who's a bit fan will know that Mario Land 2 on the GameBoy 
 had a space world and that also the recently added Super Paper Mario also partially played in space. 
 However, the way it's done is completely innovating where both titles mentioned above did things 
 still quite the same as with all the rest of the game. 
  
  At first glimpse the game resembles Mario64, where each time a certain number of stars need to 
 be collecting in order to move forward. These are scattered over about fourty worlds in the game, 
 where about half can be considered "big", the rest are bonus levels and boss fights. Each of these 
 big levels is playable in six or seven variants where each time another star can be received. Sometimes 
 the gameworld is identical and you only get another goal, but usually you'll end up in a totally 
 different environment. Three of the stars can be collected in the very typical way while the others 
 are result of mysterious comets, and even a very special guest star (pun intended) .
  
  A level typically consists out of a couple of floating mini planets that are built around a theme. 
 A tropical penguin paradise, a space junkyard and a toy factory are just a couple of examples. 
 The flying between planets is done by letting Mario spin in a warp star that gives him a boost 
 into space. The surroundings not only look very colorful but the shape of them is often very original. 
 The missions are also strongly depending on the world you're at. One time it's puzzles that play 
 in the varying gravity, while another time it looks more like a standard platform game.
  
  The fact that the worlds look different when replaying is positive. The travelling from chunk to 
 chunk is fun by itself, but it does decrease the liberty. What I liked as a kid in Mario64 where 
 the large areas. Ok, they may not have been as well decorated as here, but at least you could walk 
 around for an hour looking for that sixth red coin. In Super Mario Galaxy you fly constantly from 
 here to there and the level are too linear. When enough stars are collected new worlds can be unlocked. 
 For every five worlds there's also a boss fight where Mario will take on Bowser or one of his kids. 
 Not so spectacular since you'll always need to use the same tactic. For less experienced players 
 it can get quite difficult though.
  
  Concerning gameplay Mario has nothing to fear. The function of the controller is two-sided. There 
 the movement of our hero, which expectedly is done with the nunchuck; the A-button on the remote 
 is used to jump. Giving one of both devices a good kick makes Mario spin around, his only attack 
 in the game. The other part of the controls exists of collecting star bits, nice star candy that 
 you can use to throw and enemies and feed stars. A very nice thing is that this form of control 
 allows to play the game with two people at the same time. When a second remote is activated this 
 gets control over the extra pointer. This way a friend can join in and you can divide the tasks 
 amongst yourselves: one focuses on walking and jumping, while the other literally freezes enemies 
 and throw collected star bits at them. Very good!
  
  What would a Mario game be without transformations? Our hero can receive super power by means of 
 power-ups. These come in two sorts: fixed and temporary. A lot of advertising was done around Bee 
 Mario and Ghost Mario, which both are of the first kind, but they're not the only ones present 
 in the game. There's the big return of the fire flower (hurray!) and the discovery of its counterpart, 
 the ice flower with which you can skate over water. Also classics like the super mushroom, invincibility 
 star and the 1Up are again present. I may need to say that of this latter there are quite a few 
 too many around and their function is far from as big as it used to be. Each restart of the game 
 the amount of available levels is decreased to 5. A game over has little to no influence on the 
 further part.
  
  Overall Super Mario Galaxy doesn't rely on graphical highlights as the game doesn't really look 
 astonishing. A bigger role is given to the playing style and the atmosphere it brings forth. Also 
 the new sound material is of high quality, but unfortunately still not symphonic. A nice extra 
 is the interaction the game offers through the Wii channel screen: the mailtoad sometimes comes 
 by to put up a message and it's possible to make a screenshot of your stats and copy them to the 
 board.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KartoTolmex
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2009 12:39 pm PT
Review:  First of all I have to say, I'm not a long time fan of the Mario series. My first and only venture 
 into was "Superstar Saga" for the GBA, and I only played that because it wasn't your "typical" 
 Mario game. But, Super Mario Galaxy is so good it's ignited my interest for all the previous Mario 
 games, and I've found myself scouring eBay for Sunshine, and have downloaded Mario 64 for the Virtual 
 Console; this game is just that brilliant.
  
  Order of the day is to save Princess Peach (who's kidnapped by Bowser in the middle of the centennial 
 star festival) by travelling to various themed galaxies collecting "Power Stars" and ultimately 
 "Grand Stars".
  Galaxies usually come in groups of five (three "main" galaxies and two "mini" galaxies, and are 
 housed in small buildings within the central hub.
  Galaxies have certain themes, such as a flame galaxy or a toy themed galaxy that are for the most 
 part unique (only a couple are alike, in that a later galaxy is essentially a mirror version of 
 an earlier one for example) and contain puzzles that compliment the theme. By this I mean that 
 in the aforementioned flame galaxy, you must use Fire Mario (more on this later) to light torches 
 to progress further.
  Throughout each level there are star bits (which are used to "buy" secret stars either within a 
 current level by creating new planets, or within the observatory creating an entire galaxy) and 
 coins, both of which grant you an extra life when 50 are collected.
  Also, certain levels have "transformation mushrooms", which grant Mario special abilities. These 
 include old favourite Fire Mario (throws fireballs) , Ice Mario (turns water and lava into ice to 
 allow you to skate over effortlessly) , Spring Mario (gives you ultra high jumping ability at the 
 expense of comfortable controls) , Boo Mario (float around levels and can pass through bars) and 
 finally Bee Mario (fly for limited times and light enough to walk on clouds and flowers) .
  Each of these transformations add a new scope into areas, and make it this much more enjoyable, 
 so much so that you'll find yourself returning to certain galaxies just to much around with a "suited" 
 Mario.
  As well as the mushrooms there are two special stars that transform Mario into Rainbow mode (invincible 
 for small period) and Flying Mario (can fly for indefinite amount of time) .
  All the things going on within the levels keeps everything fresh, and eliminates any chance of 
 boredom completely.
  The difficulty of the game changes wildly, in the same hub you could have the hardest galaxy in 
 the game, and also the easiest. By no means is this a bad thing, it makes it a bit more relaxing 
 when you've just gained a difficult star to go and relax by taking a swim (literally) for the next.
 
  And even when the game is stupidly difficult (there are moments where it somes impossible) it's 
 still enjoyable and never infuriating because of this variation.
  
  The graphics aren't a massive improvement over the Gamecube (I've looked at videos etc) , bar the 
 fact that edges are a bit less pointy. You're not going to be floored by the visuals, but they 
 do what's required and create a pleasant game to look at.
  A lot can be happening on screen, and the game has never sufferred frame rate issues, and load 
 times aren't noticable (they're hidden at the star selection screens) which are both aspects I 
 value above realistic lighting effects.
  The music in the game is sublime; from orchestric pieces when fighting Bowser, and cute little 
 jitties when dashing around as a Bee, no piece seems out of place and all help pull you into the 
 world that much more.
  
  However the game isn't without isn't minor gripes.
  On a technical side, the controls suddenly go very wild when gravity shifts (from walking at the 
 bottom of the screen to switching to the side) and can be the cause of your demise, especially 
 within the more difficult levels, however this is minor and once you're used to compensating for 
 this the concern almost disappears.
  Some small niggles are the fact that a couple of suits are very underused (Flying and Boo Mario) 
 which is a little disappointing, but then again levels can be replayed so if you need to get your 
 fix you can do, it just would have been nice if they were utilised a bit more.
  Also, coins don't seem to serve much of a purpose outside of a level (inside they're valuable as 
 each one heals a unit of life) aside from a "hi-score" that rewards nothing for beating it. It 
 would have been interesting to have "coin stars" which you gain by collecting a certain amount 
 of coins within a level (seperate from the dedicated purple coins challenges) , but again this is 
 a minor niggle.
  
  In conclusion, this is THE reason to buy the Wii. With all it's charm, professionalism and grace 
 it really is a great experience; that is insanely difficult at times, but always when appropriate 
 and never creates infamous "lost a life rants" as the balance is just so perfect.
  Enjoyable by even the most anti-Mario gamers out there (I should know, I was one) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendoood
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2009 1:00 pm PT
Review:  I don't want to make to long of a review but here is Super Mario Galaxy, in basic detail, according 
 to me...
  Super Mario Galaxy is, in my opinion, and many of my friends, the best game on the Wii. I believe 
 that is is game of 2007/08 and even one of the top 3 games of the decade! It is pure Nintendo magic 
 and is one of the reasons why you definately should get a Wii.
  Super Mario Galaxy shows it's brilliance in many different ways and through various aspects of 
 the game. The 3D platform game is unique in it's amazing physics aspect in terms of gravity. The 
 game involves you playing as Mario through a large number of different galazxies with superb-looking 
 scenery and stunning graphics. Within the galaxies are many different planets and planetoids of 
 some sort in lots of unpredictable shapes and forms. This helps make for an all-new, unique and 
 enthralling experience which has been well worth the wait.
  The gameplay is fantastic as it involves the typical anologue-controlled movement using the nunchuk 
 and the other buttons the nunchuk and Wii Remote. You are able to play on land and in the sea (with 
 the addition of air in few levels) and this thankfully works extremely well yet again as you can 
 control Mario with no difficultties or awkwardness. Also there are quite a few new power-ups, in 
 addition to the old ones, all such as: Spring Mario [new] , Fire (flower) Mario, Ice Mario [new] , Bee 
 Mario [new] , Boo Mario [new] , Fly Mario [new] , Star/Rainbow Mario and also 1-up and Double-HP mushroom [new] . 
 These are included really well and are required for certain areas of gameplay and again work very 
 well and are creative plus fun to use and see. These power-ups allow for many new ways of play 
 allowing you to progress through certain levels such as Ice Mario to freeze deadly water or water 
 fountains, Bee Mario to use large flowers as platforms, to fly and to climb honeycomb areas, Fly 
 Mario to reach purple coins in purple coin levels and 1-up mushrooms (although this power-up is 
 very rarely used and more of an additional feature [which is awesome still!] ) and many more with 
 the prior examples also having many more uses.
  There is a huge variety of levels such as different comet levels which see you entering the same 
 area again but doing a specific tasks such as: different time-trials, races against bosses or cosmic 
 Mario [new] , purple coin levels where you have to collect a certain number of purple coins which 
 may be hard to get to or find which occasionally require strategic thinking, HP limitations where 
 after just one-hit you will fail and therefore have to restart the level (these are also included 
 with boss battles) and much more!
  The new enemy characters are all awesome and creatively disgned as well as many older ones returning, 
 namely: goombas, Petty Piranha, Koopas, King Boo, Boos, Magikoopa and a few more with Bowser and 
 Bowser Jr. being the main ones. Also the new bosses are superb and have brilliant design and ideas 
 including each one requiring s different way to defeat them such as: Megabot, Bouldergeist (MY 
 FAVOURITE! xD) , Petty Piranha and A LOT more.
  The music is beyond sensational with orchestral soundtracks for each galaxy, and level types, which 
 will blow your mind as they are so geniusly composed and written. The sound effects are also extremely 
 good and clear and the voices of Peach, roaring of Bowser, cheering of Toad, other voice noises 
 of Luigi and Mario and many more are amazing too. Basically Super Mario Galaxy is an absolutely 
 GENIUS MASTERPIECE OF NINTENDO SENSATIONALISM! It is also rightfully the third highest on-average 
 reated game of all time out of all top gaming sites according to GameRankings and it proves that 
 Nintendo still love their hardcore fans [especially to be shown this year as they make a brill 
 hardcore comeback after a year-off mostly] and that the Wiiis undoubtably worth buying just for 
 this even with other superb games aside. I recommend that you get Super Mario Galaxy if you have 
 a Wii even if you don't like many Mario games (though how could you not like Mario games?) and 
 if you don't have a wii then i recommend you get one... seriously because this game proves the 
 console's amazing abilities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SMGalaxyRulez
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2009 3:56 am PT
Review:  When Super Mario 64 came out, everybody loved it. Even me. Some people even called it the best 
 game ever, although, like every game, it did have its flaws. When Super Mario Sunshine was released, 
 everyone liked it, but they all knew it wasn't as good as 64. When Super Mario Galaxy was announced, 
 everyone thought it would be good, but still not as good as 64. On the 16th of November 2007, they 
 were proved wrong.
  
  Music
  
  The music in here is just incredible! I fail to put it into words. Not only is it the best music 
 on the Wii, I see it as the best music ever seen in a videogame. The quality is just immense. There 
 is a different track for each Galaxy, and they all suit them perfectly! 
  
  Graphics
  
  I have four words. Best. On. The. Wii. 
  That isn't overrating it, it is a true statement. Nuff 
 said.
  
  Gameplay
  
  What would any game be without hours upon hours of fun? Not only will this have you playing until 
 the end, it will have you playing after that. The controls work flawlessly, and the only time of 
 frustration will be falling into a black hole 5 times in a row. The difficulty is just right and 
 isn't too much of a challenge, but at the same time only the most skilled gamers will be able to 
 glide through it. Mario has many, many new suits, including a spring suit and a Boo suit which 
 are all easy to use. The whole thing is highly enjoyable too, more enjoyably than killing old people 
 and stealing their cars could ever be
  
  Ending statement
  
  Nobody can really put it into suiting words. No amount of praise could ever sum this up. Wait how 
 about "Best Game Ever?"
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zarshack
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Really gotta hand it to Shigeru Miyamoto he is a genius when it comes to gaming.
  
  Visuals - Bright and colourful. the most visually impressive game on the Nintendo Wii. 
  
  
 Sound - Great music, the entire game sounds absolutely amazing, with a fully orchestrated soundtrack 
 every level just feels so magnificent. its hard to describe the majesty and charm it brings.
  
  Gameplay - Plays basicly the same as Super mario 64 but now Mario can run upside down and all 
 over the place. every level looks and sounds great and they are fun to play through over and over. 
 once again the game has 120 stars for you to collect. not everyone will want to collect all the 
 stars but just playing through the game itself is a real treat you will probably find yourself 
 playing through it every now and then. while the game doesn't have immense staying power to keep 
 you playing it for weeks on end you will eventually return to enjoy it again. and again.
  
  Overall - Another great Mario platform game. This time the journey looks and sounds so much more 
 amazing and often feels even more enjoyable then the original games which spawned it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: birthofastar
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 9:02 am PT
Review:  Let me start this off by saying I am a Die Hard Nintendo fan, and an even more die hard Mario fan 
 since that fateful Christmas day when I unwrapped my first Nintendo with the Mario/Duckhunt combo.
 
  
  
  I have been playing Mario games for over 20 years and by far my favorites have been Super Mario 
 Bros 3, and Super Mario 64. I brought super Mario Galaxy because I thought it would be awsome to 
 see my buddy on the Wii format. I had waited forever, and this game was one of the reasons I brough 
 my Wii. 
  
  However, I have to say that this game completely let me down. It was very promising at first. It 
 looks amazing, it plays nice... but it doesn't feel like a Mario game. By the time you get past 
 a few worlds, the game gets old and stale. With a lack of challenges, and I do mean lack, you will 
 be breezing through this game. Your almost piggybacked to the ending. Your given plenty of help 
 along the way to boost you (I. E. free mushrooms) . Overall for me the game really just lacked that 
 Mario challenge. I loved Mario 64 because it made you think and it wasn't a breeze through. Super 
 Mario 3 was revolutionary, and you had to play your cards right to beat it. Galaxy however... just 
 lacked that nostalgic feel. It's really for a younger audience ages 4-10. If your an older player 
 looking to revive that Mario feeling... you'd be better off dusting off the old Nes, and blowing 
 on the Mario 3 Cartridge. This game is a renter at best, but if your like me, your brought it to 
 add to your Mario collection anyway... just because. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dan_Lionheart
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2009 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy was one of the longest hyped and anticipated Wii games since before the Wii 
 even hit homes. Luckily, it lived up to and possibly even surpassed all of the excitement surrounding 
 it. The game comes equipped with the same refined platforming engine from Super Mario 64 and Super 
 Mario Sunshine, but with the galaxy theme it brings to the table some interesting concepts and 
 amazing level design as you traverse from planet to planet, galaxy to galaxy collecting power stars. 
 The motion controls aren't heavy and the one you'll use most is a simple flick to spin, which is 
 relatively smooth, responsive, and easy to use. There's 120 power stars to collect as well as an 
 additional amount after you've gotten them all with Mario.
  
  The camera has a few problems. Often underwater or in more cluttered stages you'll be distorted 
 for a few moments. I wouldn't compare it to Kingdom Hearts or Ninja Gaiden II (to which I've actually 
 gotten dizzy with both) , but it's definitely got one minor flaw in that respect. The two player 
 mode is interesting. I find it particularly useful when the second player is a more casual gamer. 
 For instance, it would be best suited to hand that second control to your baby brother, girlfriend, 
 or mom if they want to tag along. Basically, one player controls Mario and the other controls a 
 cursor. With the cursor they can make Mario jump, spin attack, or combine with the first player 
 for a super high jump. However I find there needing to be a lot of communication with this as it 
 can get sloppy if one person is doing something and the other just tries chiming in. While it's 
 original, the most use for it is assisting more casual players or letting more casual players help 
 with the little things like holding enemies or collecting star bits.
  
  The game is a visual masterpiece, with very well done lighting effects and shading, and it's just 
 an incredible amount of fun. The main thing I noticed as I played through Super Mario Galaxy from 
 front to back was that all of the levels felt like something I wouldn't mind doing again, which 
 comes in handy later when you're on your second playthrough. The only real problem is the swimming 
 controls. At times they feel slow, boring, and can bring out the majority of flaws in the camera. 
 Thankfully, you don't HAVE to do any underwater levels if you don't want to. Other than those knicks 
 and knacks, Super Mario Galaxy brings the most in terms of visuals, sound, level design, and fun 
 that any game could hope for. Speaking of the level design, I must say that this is easily the 
 most brilliant and best level design, not only in the platform genre, but any game I've ever seen 
 before. Almost each and every level in the game could be summarized in paragraphs as support to 
 why Super Mario Galaxy is a superb example of a game.
  
  While it may have some camera issues and be mundane underwater, Super Mario Galaxy is a serious 
 breakthrough in video games. This accomplishes so much at once. It is the best Wii game, it is 
 the best Mario game, and one of the best games ever created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coronithofcork
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2009 11:19 am PT
Review:  I beat alot of you gamers have played the first 3D mario game on the nintendo 64 or the new 1 on 
 the ds and wii. This is like The ultimate Sequel to Super Mario 64. This game is great for all ages 
 there is no violence, no swearing, and no scary stuff either. I love this game its so good and its 
 fun for the whole familly. Heres the good reasons why i like this game, good graphics, handels gravity 
 on the planets well when you jump, lots of different creaturs but realitivly the same, fun flying 
 around wen you get the pink star power up, and most of all its fun! The bad is u can get fustrated 
 on some levels when using the comet stars but other than that its almost perfect im gonna give 
 it a 9.5/10. Plz get this game if youre a parent who is not sure about what there kids should and 
 should not play. Its fun and challenging i will treasure this as a classic game for the rest of 
 my life! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scaryness
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2009 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario games have always served up colorful, imaginative worlds, but in outer space there 
 are no limits! Galaxy's opening sequence depicts Princess Peach being abducted by Bowser's spaceship 
 and whisked away to a far-off corner of the universe. To rescue her, Mario will have to hopscotch 
 across dozens of galaxies composed of small planets and collections of floating platforms. Star-shaped 
 portals are used to launch Mario from one location to the next with a flick of a wrist. Mario Galaxy 
 toys with the laws of gravity and physics in a number of unexpected ways. More often than not you 
 can walk on the sides and underneath platforms, and this new dimension allows for puzzles like 
 you've never seen. Sometimes you can even pull Mario through open space by exerting gravity from 
 stars around him. The camerawork can be somewhat disorienting at first, but in general the game 
 does a remarkable job of framing the action. The stages are short but fascinating, and the themes 
 are constantly changing so they never wear out their welcome. The scenery ranges from retro-futuristic 
 floating space junk, to tropical islands, to worlds composed of sugary confections. You'll ride 
 a stingray over a stream of floating water, participate in Monkey Ball-style "golf", and blow Mario 
 in a bubble across a swamp. It seems like you're never doing the same thing twice! The graphics 
 won't "wow" you, but the cloth-like textures, realistic water effects, and reflective steel structures 
 indicate an attention to detail. Galaxy also seamlessly incorporates elements from classic Mario 
 games (like the green pipes) , along with dozens of familiar audio effects. Like the stages, the 
 diverse soundtrack ranges from epic, to whimsical, to tranquil. Nintendo exercised restraint when 
 incorporating motion controls, only using them when they compliment the action. One truly innovative 
 feature is your ability to gather up "star bits" on the screen by pointing at them with the Wimote. 
 Better yet, you can then fire these bits at enemies by aiming at the screen and pressing the B 
 trigger! Super Mario Galaxy manages to feel both radically different and comfortably familiar at 
 the same time. Its gameplay is extremely forgiving, and after each short stage you're prompted 
 to save your progress. Reviewing this game was an absolute joy, and I looked forward to playing 
 it a little bit more every day. Irresistibly fun, Super Mario Galaxy is to video games what candy 
 is to food. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aag360360
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2009 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy. What to expect? I'll just get it out of the way:
  
  THIS GAME IS NOT ANOTHER SUPER MARIO SUNSHINE, THANK GOD.
  
  So what exactly is it? It most 
 certainly feels like a lost Super Mario 64 sequel... but at the same time, it's completely different 
 from any platformer that the Wii, or any console has ever seen. The whole space thing does the 
 game a lot of good, but it's not like you're in an entire new Mario universe where everything old 
 has been scrapped. In fact, this title pays more tribute to the Mario games of the past than any 
 entry before it...
  
  All in all, it's a good game that is hard to describe in its entirety in one of my short reviews. 
 I give it a 9.0 with confidence, go play this game.
  
  Now to reach the character limit. FFFF FFFFF FFFF FFFFF FFFFFFFF FFFFFF FFFFFF FFFF FFFFFFFFF FFFFFFFFFFF 
 FFFFFFFFFF FFFF FFFF FFFFFFFF FFFFFFFF FFFFFFF F F FF FFFF FFFFF FFFFF FFFFF FFFFF FFFFF FFFFFFFF 
 FFFFFF FFFFFFF F FFFFFFFFFFFF FFF FFFFF FFF FFF FFFF FFF FFF FFFFFFFFF FFFFFFFFFF 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyrant03
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2009 11:33 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 and Super Mario Sunshine were incredible games that really showed off the power 
 of the consoles they were released for. Mario 64 introduced the italian plumber to the third dimension 
 while Sunshine blew us away with it's unique and immersive gameplay. So how do you top that?? Well, 
 Nintendo did just that! Galaxy is easily the best Mario game ever made, with beautiful graphics, 
 great control, a wonderful soundtrack, fantastic level design and enjoyable boss battles. You have 
 to get this game if you own a Wii.. just trust me on that one -MINOR SPOILER-
  
  The final battle with Bowser is one of the most epic boss battles of our generation in my opinion. 
 The music for the battle and the way it plays out almost makes it seem like this is the FINAL battle 
 they will ever have. As if every Mario game before it was just building up to this moment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CazmoV
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 10:13 am PT
Review:  My first wii game... well, other than wii sports. And what a start it was. 242 stars to collect, 
 but so little time of your life to spare in this wonderful world of endearing characters and colorful 
 atmospheres. 
  I don't know where to start. When I bought this game, I got straight into it, however I thought 
 it was nothing special. Just another decent game to add to my Nintendo collection. But as I got 
 my 1st star, my 50th star, and as I collected my 121st star, the last star of the game, I would 
 just want more and more. The easy gameplay and level designs stops you from getting bored or stuck, 
 and keeps you coming back every day. The graphics are beautiful, some of the finest graphics on 
 the wii to date, and the orchestral music is perfect. The feature of Luigi really gave the game 
 a boost too. After all, it wouldn't be a Mario game without the likes of Mario, Luigi, Peach, Bowser 
 and the rest of the crew. 
  Some of the galaxies can get boring and repetitive. But that is only a few. The majority of the 
 galaxies are imaginative and simple, but not simple enough to be aimed at kids only. This game 
 is very near perfect, but there is one problem, and that is the difficulty. As I said before, it 
 is an easy game which prevents you from getting stuck or bored. I think this is great, however 
 the game didn't seem to progress in difficulty much at all throughout the whole game. I definitely 
 think that an easier difficulty is a good idea, however maybe a harder mode for the more hardcore 
 gamers would be a good addition.
  Other than that minor problem, I think this game is almost perfect. The music, the graphics, the 
 fantastic gameplay. It all added up to be probably the best game of 2007. A brilliant start for 
 the Wii, and also a brilliant start to the casual gaming revolution.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cherokee_Jack
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo has a reputation for making what are largely thought to be the most polished games of 
 each generation. Super Mario Galaxy is no exception to this, and it also proves to be the best 
 Mario game since Super Mario 64. 
  
  Every aspect is an obvious labor of love: the gameplay is finely-crafted and innovative (yes, innovation 
 in a Nintendo game) with some very clever level design that utilizes the anti-gravity mechanic 
 well without becoming too dependent on gimmicks. The graphics are a benchmark for the Wii to this 
 day and could easily be those of a 360 game. The art design feels familiar but not stale, and you'll 
 always be coming across some new and interesting setpiece (the lava/ice world is a particular highlight) . 
 The music is similar to the art design: it plays to nostalgia but doesn't just recycle. 
  
  In case I haven't been clear enough, SMG is, hands down, the best platformer of the past 8 years. 
 Unless you just don't like the genre, (or can't sit still for more than 5 minutes without blowing 
 a hole in someone's sternum) I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mf29
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 3:48 pm PT
Review:  The latest Super Mario platformer is called Mario Galaxy. Judging by the title, you would think 
 the game would have something to do with space travel, that assumption is correct in this case. 
 The Nintendo Wii might not have a large and hefty arsenal full of splendid exclusives, but the 
 few good games it contains, are all licensed by Nintendo. Nintendo always makes sure that games 
 developed and published by them get an average score of 8.5 or higher. They set the bar for exclusive 
 titles. While completely disbanding the system from Mario Sunshine, Mario 64 is involved in it 
 with a vivid re-awakening. Mario Galaxy's gravity mentality of mini planets and alternative worlds 
 can really get the heart pumping rapidly. Since every piece of land, and/or individual planet has 
 its own gravitational pull, it makes the platforming elements fully innovative, bringing a new 
 Mario experience. There have been some sorry attempts at gravity manipulation in other platformers, 
 but no other has done it better than this Mario installment.
  
  Coming from a player who has completed the game, the game's storyline is unvaryingly the same typical 
 Mario story. Princess Toadstool's entire castle gets taken by Bowser's ship, and then they are 
 warped somehow to another galaxy. Along with this sudden occurrence, you are subsequently knocked 
 off the planet and is transported to some unknown observatory. In this observatory, the overseer 
 named Rosalina, a lady that resembles Princess Peach strongly, chooses you to gather lost stars, 
 and restore all of the observatories within that pacific observatory. From there, is where your 
 magical adventure begins. You alone, will travel the various universes filled with friends and 
 foes alike. As soon as the game starts, you will be able to walk on individual planets that have 
 their own gravitational pull. On each planet, there will always be a large orange star, which will 
 warp you to another planet.
  
  Surprisingly, Mario only has one attack in this game; none of your abilities really evolve throughout 
 the game. You only have the spin attack, which is the attack that works against every enemy, and 
 it also triggers an orange star to warp you to places. The Wii-Mote is a great control scheme here. 
 You can use the Wii-Mote to collect Star Bits just by moving the cursor over them. Wiggling the 
 Mote will initiate the spin attack, A jumps, and the nunchuck controls the movements. In Mario 
 Galaxy, there will be objects called Star Bits; these "Bits" can win you an extra man if you collect 
 50 of them. They also serve as ammunition for the on-screen Wii cursor that can shoot Star Bits 
 at enemies to startle them. You will be required to balance out shooting your Star Bits or collecting 
 them, to gain extra men. Just like in 64, a galaxy will have around 5-6 different stars you can 
 collect. Each star requires it's own individual mission. In every different galaxy, there will 
 be different incoming comets. These comets' purposes are to bring in different missions like races, 
 speed runs, etc. The speed runs involve you, racing against your own ghost clone. These are fairly 
 easy, your ghost host will conveniently lead you to the star, if you can figure out what direction 
 the clone is going, you can out do it and surpass it in the race. There will also be stages where 
 you will collect a certain amount of one item, to get a star.
  
  Let's get down to the gameplay overall, the gameplay mainly consists of getting stars, and jumping. 
 Stages are fairly diverse, ranging from water type levels, stages with lava, ice, and whatnot. 
 Your every day powerups are scattered throughout stages, the classics are back, including the Star. 
 Retaining the star will grant you invisibility evidently; it will also increase your running speed, 
 the longer you run. There is a Bee powerup, which transforms you into a Bee insect. The Bee's flexibility 
 only arises from the fact that it can fly for short durations of time, and can clime walls, only 
 walls that have honey combs on them. The Bee can stick to honey and honey only. With your Bee suit 
 on, touching water will deactivate it. Another classic is the fire ball suit, with the same abilities 
 from the 2D installments. The Ghost powerup transforms you into a ghost, with this; you are able 
 to fly through some boundaries. If exposed to light, your power will be eliminated. The Ice Mario 
 powerup, transforms Mario into an ice being. He has the ability to turn any land or underlying 
 surface into an Ice platform. This comes in handy when you need to get somewhere, but there's ice 
 water or water in the destined path. Swimming in Ice Water will hurt you.
  
  The long jump is still here, the triple jump, and the back flip. Not much has changed, like I said 
 earlier. The health system is a bit limited. You only have three hits until death, but the overwhelming 
 amount of extra lives laying around defeats that nuisance. The same extra life mushrooms return 
 in the same spot, even after you've gotten it, and died, and returned back to the same area. This 
 could be a glitch, glitch or not, it's still very helpful. The red SHROOM will give you three more 
 hits, granting you a total of 6 hits. But once you have been hit three times, that bonus disappears 
 until you get another mushroom. So, getting stars will unlock a new observatory. Each observatory 
 is aimed at a certain galaxy; each galaxy has a Bowser boss fight. The hits required to kill Bowser 
 increase as you progress through the game. You will not always be facing Bowser, though. At times, 
 his pathetic son tries to eschew your justice by creating sorry excuses for bosses. He sucks, but 
 Bowser can become difficult at times. One thing that makes this game somewhat annoying is the limited 
 health capacity, in combination with the gravitational forces. It's just too limited, it's too 
 easy to get hit more than two times, and the spin attack misses by a centimeter. So while you're 
 trying to attack an enemy, and you spin attack and miss by just once inch, that enemy you were 
 trying to attack will merely touch you barely, and will knock one huge piece of your health away. 
 
  
  It seems like something should have been done about this. Stages further throughout the game have 
 massively arduous platforming sequences. With the combination of you walking upside down sideways, 
 jumping on and off inch wide platforms, becomes staggeringly difficult. Especially with lava in 
 the middle of platforms, hitting it once will set you off into a hell bound pounce after pounce, 
 of Mario screaming for his life. The game is still fun though. The water traverses are wondrous 
 and both subtle, the boss battles are keenly creative and life warming. Once a strategy is developed 
 life gets easy, but the gravitational pull and platform set up can halt your boss murdering demeanor. 
 One wouldn't be able to reconcile such an emotion that emerges from the musical composition in 
 this game. The music is nothing short of monumental, and is unsurprisingly brilliant. Even the 
 chimes that run through the Wii-Mote don't sound too bad.
  
  I need to comment on the graphics. The Wii might not be completely designed for HDTV usage, but 
 when played on a LCD flat screen, the colors and lighting come to life. The graphics are still 
 good on a standard television, but on an HDTV, the game displays the Wii's full potential. With 
 the motion-blur effects, juicy coloring, stellar space like atmospheres, it can become quite a 
 handful. The models look tasty, and the fire effects, smoke, water, etc. look bubbly and polished. 
 A game like this can register about 40 hours or more. Only for the die hard gamers who don't want 
 to finish the game with stars left behind. The awestruck amount of stars in these games ranges 
 from 120-240. This includes the stars gained by Luigi, Playing with him isn't much of a difference, 
 but it leaves something to do after the game is completed. This game is one that should be bought; 
 it is one that must be cherished, and experienced.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersean7
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2009 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is a just right, unique, got an award, and it makes a whole new generation of 
 mario games. In this game , mario is invited to princess peach's annual star festival and he was 
 very excited to go until bowser attack the mushroom kingdom (again) and then takes the princess's 
 castle and mario get hit by one of the magic koopa people and falls down in space. Then he gets 
 this new power called a spin. So then starts the journey and the graphics are great, gameplay makes 
 you feel like your with mario in space doing stuff you can never do in your life. You also have 
 the same classic bosses.... That are remade like the petey piranha dinosaur and the lava octopus 
 and you will have to check the game out for more great things about the game because that's only 
 the beginning of this fantastic game! So blast off with Super mario Galaxy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrashton
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2009 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Not only is this the best game in the Mario series, this is the best Wii game... period. From the 
 beginning, you can tell it's very interactive, but at the same time, it eases you into the gameplay. 
 After 15 minutes of playing, you won't be able to put it down. Great use of the motion controls, 
 yet it's easy to pick up and familiarize yourself with the UI. Fantastic new characters and brilliant 
 use of the old ones. Each level is a new experience that builds on your skills from previous levels. 
 Plus, the music is fun and cathcy, the graphics are crisp and colorful, and the story line is inventive. 
 I still have an original NES and Galaxy definitely lives up to Mario's legacy. You won't be able 
 to stop once you start. I can't wait until the next installment, though it will have some very 
 large shoes to fill. Nicely done Nintendo!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioboy333
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2009 1:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best mario games i have ever played. This game is so fun to play. The story 
 line is the same as always. Bowser kidnapped Peach and it is up to Mario to save her. Execpt this 
 time u go into space. The graphics one one of the best hings about this game. This should win the 
 best graphics on the wii. it is stunning just plain stunning. The controls are very simple. Te enemies 
 are nice to see. The mushroom idea i like. Say u get a yellow and black mushroom u turn into a bee. There 
 is also a boo mushroom and a spring mushroom also in this game mario defies gravity (on Earth) 
 u can be upside down .The bosses are like awesome. There are many levels and mini games. You fight 
 Bowser alot which he has diffrent moves. Stars are pretty to see. Also the bosses are pretty to see 
 and fun to fight. This game has almost no flaws. also there is a multiplayer. I like this because 
 u don't need numcuck for the second player easy for another family member to see. The music is 
 fun to hear. So this game is just perfect
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tengu-Ninja
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 9:17 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is one of the rare gems on the Wii and should be in every Wii owners collection. 
 Fantastic graphics which push the Wii's hardware, fun gameplay as most mario games are, and a game 
 to wash the taste of Mario Sunshine out of our mouths. What is there really to say about the plot 
 as it is typical Mario. Princess needs help yet again (you'd think she'd get some adequate guards 
 or a gun after the first time oh well) so as Mario you are off to explore the galaxy to save your 
 bewildered princess peach. Gameplay is addictive and with plenty of stars and planets to explore 
 it has a good grip on you. Sadly however but maybe this is only me I found the replay value to 
 be lacking. After you've found all the stars you need to face bowser there is really nothing left, 
 that is unless you want to go back and do time trials and such but I found little value in that. 
 But never the less it is a great game and I highly recommend playing it if you have not already. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Odyssey-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 8:49 pm PT
Review:  One of the Wii's most anticipated and hyped games long before the console was even released, this 
 game has not only lived up to the hype, but surpassed it. You control Mario on his quest to collect 
 power stars throughout space. You travel from galaxy to galaxy as your number of power stars increase, 
 each galaxy holding different levels for Mario to frolic on. There are 120 power stars to collect 
 with Mario alone, as well as additional stars to collect on a second play through.
  
  The game makes perfect use of the Wii's motion controls. The Wiimote is used to collect "star bits" 
 that are found all over every level, to pick them up it is as easy as controlling the cursor on 
 the screen. This helps Mario collect star bits that are out of reach, without him having to physically 
 walk through them. To spin attack enemies, it's nothing more than a shake of the Wiimote. The Nunchuk 
 is used in conjunction with the Wiimote, the control stick is used for making Mario run.
  
  
  Negatives that must be included in this review are the camera angles in certain cluttered or 
 underwater areas, as you often become confused due to the camera axis rotating. Also, the Nunchuk's 
 control stick is sometimes a pain to use whilst circling a round planet.
  
  Overall though, the perfect balance of level designs, controls, visuals, sound and all round entertainment 
 easily make this not only the greatest game in the Mario series, but Wii's top game and one of 
 the best video games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2009 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Where are some moments in gaming that define why we're all here right now, moments that explain 
 why we love games so much. They're the main reasons we chose to be games journalists and the main 
 reasons you're reading this magazine. These moments are different for each individual gamer; for 
 you it could be that death in Final Fantasy VII, for us it could be scoring directly from a corner 
 in the original International Superstar Soccer. But then there are those that almost universally 
 affect everyone: doing your first loop-the-loop in Sonic The Hedgehog, getting your first Tetris, 
 the first time you swung the Wii Remote playing tennis in Wii Sports, and so forth.
  
  
  It seems appropriate for this review then that the franchise responsible for most of these moments 
 is the Mario series. Everyone who has played their fair share of games can relate to sliding down 
 their first flagpole in Super Mario Bros, finding Yoshi for the first time in Super Mario World, 
 running around Peach's castle grounds in Super Mario 64 and so on.
  
  Now, with Mario's first proper adventure on Nintendo's fifth generation console, the plan is to 
 provide some more of these defining moments and revolutionise platforming all over again, as had 
 been done with Super Mario 64 just over a decade ago. Thankfully, we can safely state "mission 
 accomplished", as Super Mario Galaxy is one of the finest games we've ever played.
  
  The Look Of Love
  It's funny, because the thing that annoys us most about Galaxy is that its 
 fantastic graphics show us the sort of games we could have been playing for the past year had some 
 developers bothered to pull their finger out and actually tried to use the Wii to its full potential. 
 Any claims that Nintendo's console is effectively a motion-sensitive GameCube are blown right out 
 of the water when you start the game and witness the controllable intro sequence. As you make Mario 
 approach Peach's castle during a night-time meteor party you can't help but stop and admire the 
 incredible water effects as the light shining through the castle windows reflects on the surrounding 
 lake, while small meteor fragments and stars rain onto the castle grounds.
  
  It doesn't let up there either. Throughout the whole game the graphics constantly amaze, with stunning 
 visual effects (as the camera moves and large planets rise or set far in the distance you're treated 
 to a fantastic sight as the horizon glows, creating a sort of lens flare effect) , some remarkably 
 huge playing areas (if you stop just before you collect the star in one of the Honey Hive Galaxy 
 missions, you can see the whole of the level sprawling down below you) and characters that are 
 positively filled to the brim with personality (not least of all, the main man himself) . 
  
  
  Simply put, if you've long been dreaming of a game that actually makes the most of the 
 Wii's powerful graphics processor then your dreams have come true. Super Mario Galaxy will not 
 only rock your socks, it will blow your actual feet clean off, leaving you with a set of comedy 
 stumps that you can use to pretend you're a marauding pirate (not literally mind, Nintendo's strict 
 health and safety policy wouldn't allow that) .
  
  Sweet, Sweet Music
  If your ears are starting to feel a little bit jealous, tell them not to worry; the eyes aren't 
 the only thing being treated to a feast here. The sound is some of the best we've heard in a Mario 
 game. While the new musical themes may not immediately be as catchy as the classics we all know 
 and love, they fit the environments perfectly and capture the feeling of being in an unfamiliar 
 location and we promise that eventually you'll grow to love them all the same and find yourself 
 uncontrollably humming along as you've done in previous Mario titles.
  
  Retro-heads needn't stress out however, because they're more than catered for with heaps of old-school 
 nods to the earlier games in the series. Question blocks return, mushrooms are back (and are the 
 best-looking mushrooms yet, if we do say so ourselves) , and there are loads of moments where you 
 think "that's the thing from that other one!"
  
  Some of his power-ups give a similar sense of nostalgia. As well as the all-new Bee Suit and Boo 
 Suit and some other power-ups we don't want to spoil (let's just say they involve ice and bouncing) , 
 the return of Fire Mario and invincibility (complete with the original music) make it clear that 
 this is a return to Mario's roots.
  
  
  In fact, strange as it may seem to claim, we reckon that if Super Mario Galaxy shares most with 
 one particular game in the series it's Super Mario Bros 3. While the fact it's set in 3D means 
 that obvious comparisons will be drawn to 64 and Sunshine, the fact is that Galaxy calls upon the 
 third game a number of times throughout when it comes to nostalgia trips, something Mario's previous 
 3D ventures chose not to do. 
  
  Bowser arrives at the start of the game in an airship - much like the boss battles in the third 
 game - complete with the same airship theme that played during the original. Similarly, the Cookie 
 Factory Galaxy features the same music as world 1-2 of SMB 3, bringing a smile to the face of anyone 
 who remembers it (it certainly had us grinning like we were 10 years old again) . And collecting 
 the likes of the Bee Suit and the Boo Suit for the first time had us reminiscing of the times we 
 first encountered the Raccoon Suit and the Frog Suit in Mario's third adventure.
  
  It Ain't Easy Being This Good
  In terms of difficulty, the game varies. When we originally played 
 demos of the game we were worried that it was going to be too easy, but those fears can be put 
 to rest. While some missions are indeed quite simple, others will test the skills of even the most 
 dedicated Mario fans (the aforementioned Cookie Factory Galaxy has a nice stage where you have 
 to make your way along moving platforms riddled with holes by carefully jumping forward, avoiding 
 the holes and being sure not to hit any laser beams in the process) . It's perhaps slightly trickier 
 than Super Mario 64, but not as frustrating as some of Super Mario Sunshine's later levels were. 
 Challenging but entertaining, in other words. Needless to say it'll take you a while to get all 
 120 stars.
  
  
  Playing with the Wii Remote as a pointer sounds like it might be a fiddly experience but the fact 
 is that within five minutes we'd actually forgotten that we were using it. It speaks volumes about 
 how well the system works (you can stun enemies by pointing at them and pressing the B button to 
 fire star fragments at them, and can gather a load of star fragments by simply waving the pointer 
 over them) that within mere minutes it felt like we'd been doing this since the days of Mario 64. 
 
  
  The ability to make a second player control the pointer instead to let you concentrate on controlling 
 Mario feels slightly tacked-on but at least it offers some form of co-operative gameplay for the 
 first time in a 3D Mario adventure (even if the player controlling the pointer is clearly getting 
 the short straw) .
  
  To tell you any more about Super Mario Galaxy would be like giving you a packet of Maltesers that 
 we'd already sucked the chocolate off of. We know that the vast majority of you are going to buy 
 this, so telling you all our favourite bits would just be a case of rubbing it in because we've 
 experienced them first. If we bought a ticket for a film at the cinema we'd hate someone to spill 
 the beans on the showstopping set-pieces before we'd seen them for ourselves.
  
  There are so many moments in this game that had us gasping with surprise, chuckling away at cheeky 
 nods to past games and shaking our heads at the sheer genius of it all that it'd be a crime to 
 gaming if you didn't experience it for yourself.
  
  This is the best game that the Wii has to offer and could well be the best game this generation. 
 While I'll be pelted for that and this by numerous Sony and Microsoft fanboys, if this isn't the 
 game you will be buying the next time you visit GAME, Gamestation or anything like that, you are 
 a complete idiot. Or already have the game. Whereas you are cleverer than Einstein himself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Negative7000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 4:36 pm PT
Review:  I've always loved the Mario series. They seem like they have years of effort put into them. I extremely 
 enjoyed Super Mario Sunshine, however. This game is so... fantastic that it's even better than Super 
 Mario Sunshine. Let's start it off with the graphics. They're awesome and they never get old. They 
 seem the same as Super Mario Sunshine but have something about that just takes me breath away; 
 maybe it's the level designs that make them so fantastic. Speaking of level designs, I'll talk 
 about those now. They are absolutely beautiful. The cleverness and how unique they are put me in 
 awe. Each area is still in space, yet they all seem so different. The creator definitely have some 
 extremely talented level designers in the crew. Enough about that, let's move onto the story. Like 
 usual, Princess Peach gets captured by the evil Bowser. However, I'm not implying that I am sick 
 of this. It's never irritated me that much. the evil Bowser succeeds in kidnapping Princess and 
 you must venture out to save her. You meet Roselina on her "ship" and begin you're quest. I'll 
 babble about items now. There are different types of mario's (this of course has been done before 
 though) . Although there are quite a few additions; I'll name them: Boo Mario, Rainbow Mario, Spring 
 Mario, Ice Mario, Fire Mario, and Bee Mario. Lastly, the gameplay. It is extraordinary first off. 
 The fighting is fun and simple, and the bosses are quite enjoyable. There are many more that I 
 could name but this review is growing quite long. Overall I give this game a 9.5/10, for stunning, 
 and solid game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: w2rockstar
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2009 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Once you revolutionise a genre (Super Mario 64 Revolutionised platforming) it's hard to do it again, 
 but there are exceptions and this is the best! With all sorts of new suprises that are included 
 with almost all mario games this simply continues that tradition and then does more, I love this 
 game in every aspect!
  
  Music: A rich orchastral soundtrack that can almost tie with the legend of zelda's music, the background 
 sound can make you drop your controller and stare at the screen as you listen to the background 
 music.
  
  Graphics: Well in mario what would you expect, you travel from galaxy to galaxy and not one texture 
 doesn't surpass excellence. The graphics aren't mean't to look as realistic as the PS3 or 360 because 
 that isn't mario, but they sure do look better then the PS3 or 360 because no games on those consoles 
 have such a colourful and happy environment
  
  Extras: All sorts of secrets lie around each galaxy, there are all sorts of fun minigames to play 
 and when you finish everything...
  
  Replayability: The levels aren't frustrating, you'll enjoy playing them over and over agains so 
 you'll never get tired of mario's best adventure ever. You'll play this for hours and hours and 
 hours and hours...
  
  Gameplay: This is the important part, does this beat/equal Sunshine and 64? It does more then beat, 
 it revolutionises the genre of 3D platforming again and proves that Shigeru Miyamotos mind could 
 continue to come up with new ideas for another millenium! The levels are short, simple, colourful, 
 fun, and use 3D in an entirely new way!
  
  Overall: One word sums up a game that can't be beaten (Except by Ocarina of time) - Perfect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3dfd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Man, I've been waiting for this all my life - Science fiction Mario! The controls are hard and 
 your Wii remote can mess everything up if it doesnt work correctly cause sometimes you gotta spin 
 the wii remote . however i like this game, but has the same plot as any other Mario game - Bowser 
 kidnaps princess peach mario has to save her the final level Mario rescues princess peach they 
 kiss the end. Period. At least it adds a twist to the game because you get to travel through stars 
 and planets and galaxies. I like the Good Egg Galaxy since I'm a fan of Yoshi. Oh and its cool 
 how you can make a planet shaped like Mario, Yoshi, or even your Miis! Notice the graphics of this 
 game. They're truley amazing, compared to some other games such as Kirby Super Star Ultra. Try 
 this game ---- you'll probably love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jd24456
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 1:13 am PT
Review:  You remember the good old days with Mario 8-bit 16-bit 64-bit and the good but not excellent sunshine. 
 Well I do and this game brings them back. I think this game is superior to Grand Theft Auto 4 witch 
 is overrated. The game first of all is beautiful. The best graphics the wii put out a 10. But the 
 game play is a perfect 10 Mario controls like your dream car I mean you will see shat Nintendo 
 was going for with the wii. And the boss battles will make you feel like a badass when you beat 
 them. The sound a 10 the sound is either classic or new they both sound great and I would put just 
 below the moon level in Ducktales. So this game is perfect. No but as close as a game can get they 
 take your extra men when you take a break and the camera is not perfect. But is still thin this 
 is how close a game will ever get to perfect so that's why I am giving it a 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 61laz
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2008 6:11 am PT
Review:  Some stages i found was the ones you had to roll on a ball or where you had to swim on a octopus 
 type thing. What i mean is the Green Trial Galaxy was one of the trickiest galaxies i played and 
 enjoyed. Some daredevil comets are almost impossible like where you have to fight the boulder guy 
 or even fighting Bowser in The Faith Of The Universe. One of the good parts of the game is in the 
 end you can play as Luigi which make players even happier when you can play as Marios littlebrother. 
 Dont read any more
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  a s s s s s s s as a sa s f adf sd fasdf sdf sad fadsf sd fs dg ds fs df sd fsdfsdf sdf sad fasdf 
 sd fsd fsdf adsf sa f sdf asd fdsf sdf ds fasdf dasf sdfadsf ds fsadf dsf sd fsdf ds fas asahjadh 
 skdghfsad fhjadshfkds jkdsfvsd hfkadhhefs dfjksfkasf sdfhs fsa dfhjehfu s s s s 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abodow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 4:18 am PT
Review:  very good very good very gververy goody goodooddvery very goodgoovery goodvery gooddvervvery good 
 very good very gververy goody goodooddvery very goodgoovery goodvery gooddververy goody goodvery 
 goodery goody goodvery goodvery good very good very gververy goody goodooddvery very goodgoovery 
 goodvery govery good very good very gververy goody goodooddvery very goodgoovery goodvery gooddververy 
 goody goodvery goododdververy goody goodvery goodvery good very good very gververy goody goodooddvery 
 very goovery good very good very gververy goody goodooddvery very goodgoovery goodvery gooddververy 
 goody goodvery gooddgoovery goodvery gooddververy gvery good very good very gververy goody goodooddvery 
 very goodgoovery goodvery gooddvervvery good very good very gververy goody goodooddvery very goodgoovery 
 goodvery gooddververy goody goodvery goodery goody goodvery goodvery good very good very gververy 
 goody goodooddvery very goodgoovery goodvery govery good very good very gververy goody goodooddvery 
 very goodgoovery goodvery gooddververy goody goodvery goododdververy goody goodvery goodvery good 
 very good very gververy goody goodooddvery very goovery good very good very gververy goody goodooddvery 
 very goodgoovery goodvery gooddververy goody goodvery gooddgoovery goodvery gooddververy goody 
 goodvery goodoody goodvery good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcalotti
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Mario Galaxy is a great game and it never gets boring. The only problem I have is the minor camera 
 angles. If it had no bad camera angles it would be the NEAR perfect game. Here are my pros and cons.
 
  
  Pros: Awesome new power ups
  Cons: The spring Mario is kinda shaky
  
  Pros: Get 120 stars and get LUIGI!
  Cons: To get the 121st star you have to beat the entire game 
 all over again.
  
  Well if you were looking at the review of this game I hope you get good opinions if you want to 
 get this game or not.
  I gave this game a 10 out of 10 because the graphics and the game play grab on to me. That is what 
 makes a game tick. This game is enjoyable for the whole family. Whats great is that its a 2 player 
 game! How awesome is that! Now this game Will be the best games of all time, there is know doubt. I 
 hope you enjoyed my review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicrocks96
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2009 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is about these star bits falling from the sky, witch happens every one hundred 
 years. That's when the Mushroom Kingdom has a star festival. So then Peach gives Mario a note that 
 She'll be waiting at the Castle for Mario, and that there's something She'd like to give him (maybe 
 a kiss) . But right before he goes to the Castle, Bowser comes and kinda pulls the Castle into space. 
 The next day, this lumma wakes Mario up, and after a while Mario meets this fairy called Rosalina. 
 And you go to this course where all the fun begins. 
  
  What I like about Super Mario Galaxy is that you can like walk under platforms. So instead of falling 
 off the platform and die, you just walk under the platform. It's realy cool. What's also good about 
 Super Mario Galaxy is that you can't deny the game play, witch means you can get these star bits 
 by aiming with your Wii Remote. Also the level desighns are the most wildest, most wacky and most 
 fun levels you can ever imagine! And the graphics are pretty much awesome. I mean, there not as 
 good as X360 or PS3, but at least there better than GC. And lastly there are many special powers 
 in the game like Fire Mario, Boo Mario, Bee Mario, Ice Mario, Rainbow Mario, and Spring Mario. 
 
  
  The bad news is that the camera can sometimes be very fustraiting.
  
  So lastly Super Mario Galaxy is Mario's greatest adventure yet, and it's worth buying for your 
 Nintendo Wii
  
  My score. Editors Choice 10: Perfect
  
  It's-a me, Mario! It's-a me, Mario! It's-a me, Mario! It's a me, Mario! It's-a me, Mario! It's-a 
 me, Mario! It's-a me, Mario! It's a me, Mario! It's a me, Mario!
  
  Let's-ta go! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LUIGIUNIVERSE
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  Mario Galaxy is a great game and it never gets boring. The only problem I have is the minor camera 
 angles. If it had no bad camera angles it would be the NEAR perfect game. Here are my pros and cons.
 
  
  Pros: Awesome new power ups
  Cons: The spring Mario is kinda shaky
  
  Pros: Get 120 stars and get LUIGI!
  Cons: To get the 121st star you have to beat the entire game 
 all over again.
  
  Well if you were looking at the review of this game I hope you get good opinions if you want to 
 get this game or not.
  I gave this game a 10 out of 10 because the graphics and the game play grab on to me. That is what 
 makes a game tick. This game is enjoyable for the whole family. Whats great is that its a 2 player 
 game! How awesome is that! Now this game Will be the best games of all time, there is know doubt. I 
 hope you enjoyed my review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youtube_tv
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is for sure a totally different game then all games past. Yes, it still has 
 those star looking things, but it brings you into outer space where your not just on a flat or 
 hilly surface. your actually on a round planet (most of the time) and can go all the way around 
 it. 
  
  The plot is still the same, Peach gets kidnapped and Mario gets to go out and save her. But you 
 get a lot of new things. like the ability to fly, creating ice and fire, and even be a Boo! now 
 that's pretty cool. The Game itself isn't that hard, but if you move to fast, you may get a little 
 dizzy or sick from it, so watch about for that. 
  
  The graphics are awesome is this game, you can see everything with perfection compared to the other 
 mario games. in the end, i give this game a 10 out of 10 for everything =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AsianXPride
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Mario Galaxy is one of those classic games you must have on the Wii. You could say it's as much 
 of a classic as Halo on the Xbox. It is a must have.
  
  The storyline is about Bowser kidnapping Peach. Mario must do many missions to obtain stars to 
 power up the ship he will use to save Peach. However, the levels in the missions are all different. 
 They range from Ice Worlds to Lava Worlds to the Tropics to the Deserts and many many other levels.
 
  
  Further more, the graphics are just awesome. I haven't seen any Nintendo game match the graphics 
 Mario Galaxy produced. Apart from that, the physics of being in space are quite realistic. Making 
 the graphics even better is the vivid and bright colours. The full potential of your TV can be 
 put to use.
  
  The bosses at each level are just... hilarious. They are all different. Ranging from a giant mole 
 to a giant walking man-eating plant to a rock-throwing tree and many other bosses (don't forget 
 Bowser) . Adding to this fun, are power-ups. You can use power-ups to shoot fireballs, walk on water, 
 turn into a ghost and other unusual abilities. The controls are easy and fun to use. To shake the 
 remote and the character twirls around or even shoot fireballs. In one level, you twirl in a dust 
 cyclone. It's simply fun.
  
  This is a Wii classic that needs to be bought. One of the best Wii games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MFmotion
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  First of all, If you have a Wii and you want an anventure game, just buy this one, it is great 
 game.
  
  Story: 
  The game has a good story, which is acceptable. Seduce us but we are not surprised. Despite this, 
 the game has a cooperative mode, which adds a good experience for two-people. Do not forget the 
 WiiConnect24 with which we can send our list of stars (records) to our friends.
  
  Graphics:
  Great on Wii. The first Wii title that looks like it's really pushing the console. 
 The art is really well combined with the tech, and we have the results.
  
  Gameplay:
  In the game we will find a wide variety of galaxies to see, explore and learn. This is what makes 
 innovative to the game, is like Super Mario 64 in the space. We have the same Mario movements here.
 
  
  Sound:
  The game has orchestrated music that is incredible. The music is linked to every world and makes 
 it special. You simply will never be tired of the music. 
  
  The only thing left that I have to say is buy it, and buy it. YOU WON'T BE DISSAPOINTED.
  
 
  For me still the best adventure game on we. 
  
  _-._ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EmrlGizoid
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 21, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  WAAAY too overrated!! Mario Galaxy will never be as good as the first Super Mario (64 style) . 
 
  
  after Mario Sunshine, that didn't surpass Mario 64, came Mario Galaxy, worst than Mario Sunshine. 
 Just like Sonic and the Secret Rings, most of the game isn't stages, only boring missions. Most 
 of the galaxys you just gotta keep getting shooting stars parts and then shooting.... Not like Mario 
 64 that you had to batlle amazing bosses, climb giant mountains and even run with you ass trough 
 enormous stages!!
  
  Not that this game is bad it's just too easy and will never surpass the first one. One thing that's 
 just boring are those purple coins missions, that made my score go down to 6. After you beat Bowser 
 you gotta do some boring missions to get idiot purple coins and when it's finally over you gotta 
 do the whole game again with Luigi to unlock the last idiot mission. If they made another thing 
 instead of those purple coins my score would be 7,5.
  
  I would buy Mario Sluggers or Mario Kart instead of this game but if you want to buy.... buy it.
 
  
  I just want that the next Super Mario game have the same style as Mario 64....... Ah another thing!! 
 If you're gonna play this game, call a friend, you can get way more star bits with the special 
 features of the second player!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DIEHARD117
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  im not that big of a mario fan but my friends are and told me to get it and its gota be 1 of the 
 best games ive ever goten for the wii. and every thing in this game is perfect but the roson i 
 only give it a 9 is because ur main control is the spin attack. and to do it u have to swing the 
 wii remote to the side and most of the time it works good but then. u have wall to many ppl comn 
 at u and it glitches up and doesnt sense it and then u die. but other than that everything is perfect 
 ,the camera is automatic or u can adjust it manually. and the graphics are are well there PERFECT 
 the only game that ive seen that has better is animal crossing. other then the swinging of the 
 remot for that move the controls are just the way they should be and the game really takes control 
 of the wii remotes abillitys. so yeah bottom line amazing game from beginning to end and i think 
 any 1 from 10-90 would in joy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2008 1:22 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is just one of those games that you know you must have if you own a Wii. If 
 you don't have it already, you should seriously start thinking about making the purchase.
  
  As always, Princess Peach has been stolen by the evil Dragon dude. You find yourself on a Space 
 Ship controlled by the mother of the stars. You use the space ship as a portal to go to different 
 planets and galaxies.
  
  Each galaxy is totally different in the way it plays and the "power ups" you get. You find yourself 
 either clinging to a turtle shell under water, turned into a bee that can stick to specific walls, 
 turned into a ghost that can't go through light, inside a bubble or a spring, or rolling on a glass 
 ball to reach the objectives. There is the obvious ones too, as turning into Ice Mario or Fire 
 Mario or getting the ability to fly.
  
  Each level is extremely well designed both in the game play and in the way it looks. No 2 levels 
 looked the same. The Graphics is typical for a Ninteno system. Super colored. Put's your TV's color 
 systems through a proper test.
  
  The control system is extremely fun and easy to use. Using the nunchuck to move around or jump, 
 an the pointer to gram the very important star bits and shaking it to attach. You also need to 
 use the pointer to blow the bubble Mario is in around or balance Mario on a ball. Truly brilliant.
 
  
  I really can't find anything bad to say about this game. Fantastic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felix19194
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario games have marked the history of Nintendo, with its first installment for the NES Super 
 Mario World. Now we are presented with this masterpiece. What attracts me of this game is the level 
 design, how you travel in between them, the planetary travelling is amazing, and I just love the 
 levels were there is zero gravity. You feel that you can fly.
  
  Graphics - 10.0 - Talking in terms of the wii, the graphics are impeccable, the FPS is very constant, 
 there's absolutely no lag whatsoever.
  
  Gameplay - 9.9 - I do not give the gameplay a 10.0 because of the reason that some of the Mario 
 suits are difficult to control and are not very consistent, but other than that it is perfect.
 
  
  Soundtrack - 9.5 - The sound effects and music in this game are very good but they could improve, 
 the launching sounds and others could sound much more realistic.
  
  Price - 9.5 - This game is just a bit overpriced, it should cost more around 35 bucks but nevertheless 
 it has been a great hit.
  
  Overall - 9.7 (Approximation 10) i recommend this game, it is the best Super Mario to be released 
 just yet, Im hoping another game will be released in a near future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dylanmcc
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2008 12:56 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is arguably the best game for the Wii. It's another installment to the great 
 Mario franchise. So, here's my review:
  
  Graphics: For the Wii, Galaxy's graphics are more than impressive. They are bright, colorful and 
 polished. 9/10
  
  Gameplay: Classic Mario platforming. The level design is awesome, almost every star is a blast 
 to reach. The gravity is cool, interaction with Wii Remote is nice and not overused and running 
 360 around a planet is insane. 10/10
  
  Difficulty: Not too hard, not too easy. Just right, perhaps it could have been a little tougher 
 but I admit it's good not having any frustrating moments. The difficulty level makes the game very 
 enjoyable. 9/5/10
  
  Controls: To some, the spinning move that is made by moving the Wii Remote seem tacked on, but 
 I feel that it is a good touch. Wiggling the cursor at the screen to pick up star bits is very 
 rewarding. All in all, no problems with the controls. 10/10
  
  Sound: Awesome soundtrack. The music in the levels are very appropriate. Some music can ruin a 
 game, Galaxy's soundtrack is incredible and adds to the experience.
  
  Overall, I give this game a 10/10. It's my favourite game this genre and I highly recommend it 
 to any Wii owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tautkus48
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  It has great graphics and sounds effects. The 3D is the best in the mario series for the wii so 
 far. It is a great RPG. The story doesn't really tie together much and it rushes into new moves 
 and action. The game jumps out and start right away with a simple story where bowser comes in to 
 capture princess peach again. And you also go with him up into the sky. After figuring out the 
 little things of running around the world and cachting up on whats going on. You get into a station 
 and go around and go through the levels. There arn't many moves you can learn. You basically have 
 every move you can learn in the begging which is a sad thing in my part. but the game goes through 
 and you don't gave any side quest its all just straight out but the up side is beating the whole 
 game gets you a special time with the luigi loving fans. This game is total worth the money but 
 if you get dizzy or sick easy with spinning things i would watch buying it. It sometimes can be 
 quiet a dizzy mess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreenFire95
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  Mario sets for the stars in this amazing action-packed adventure that destroys most X-Box games. 
 seriously, all they have is shooters. this is much more. youve got Mario and Luigi in outer space 
 finding stars as always, but now youve got planet hopping! the effects for basically everything 
 in this game is truly outstanding and so hard to ignore. i asked my friends what they think about 
 this, they say "it totally destoys Halo 3" XD a Mario game did better than Halo! well whats to 
 expect? Nintendo FTW
  
  There are many things in this game that makes it what it is. the music is totally catchy and has 
 some great origional remixes. my total favorite is the one that plays at Gusty Garden Galaxy. it 
 just sounds so beautiful and adventurous! just listening to it makes me happy :)
  another great thing in Galaxy is the special effects. those graphics are truly outstanding! basically 
 the best on the Wii! just watching Mario soar past entire galaxies is an epic thing to watch.
 
  i also like the different costumes mario gets in this game, like the Bee costume and the Boo costume. 
 the Spring suit is also lots of fun to use, if it wasnt so hard to control. but it makes wall jumping 
 a breeze!
  
  but there are two things in this game that bother me. one thing that doesnt seem right is that 
 Mario's only attack is this weird spinny thing. i know i know, hes used it before, but whatever 
 happened to his punches and kicks? that action basically defined Mario 64's physics. and in Mario 
 Sunshine, Mario couldnt even attack! whats with that?! but anyways back to Galaxy...
  the other thing i dont like about this game is the bosses. sure ive been killed once or twice, 
 but theyre just too easy. i expected much more from the final Bowser fight, besides the same thing 
 ive been doing the entire game. the only boss that really seems hard to me is the big boulder guy 
 in the Ghostly Galaxy or whatever its called. doing this fight is exttremely hard when the DareDevil 
 comet comes and you only got 1 health point. it took me many more than 10 tries to get rid of him!
 
  
  ignoring those few points that i dont like, this game is incredible and will be loved for many 
 more years, just like Mario 64. it will be played for a very long time and everyone will always 
 remember the red plumber and his epic space adventure to save the entire universe, Super Mario. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: im2cool123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  this game is so amazing, u cant even compare it to anything else (except brawl) . its so fun to 
 fly around space as mario collect stars. the level designs are very good and the missions make 
 great use of the levels. you can even compare it to super mario 64 witch was also out of this world. 
 haha, ok bad joke but its that good. you vcan walk upside down on the platforms and click on stars 
 to fly around, you can even shoot star pieces at your enimies to stun them and thats really fun 
 as well. overall this is a game that if u have a wii, you need to get period!!! and even if u dont 
 have one you need to play this. super mario galaxy will have you on the coach for hous and hours 
 to come. ok i have to take up space so i will say this. my friend when he was a kid was entered 
 to draw an idea for a game when they were kids and he does a picture of mario in space and years 
 later super mario galaxy and he see's his picture as the ideo for it. you dont have to believe 
 it but i am just trying to write enough so i can post 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apoklitty
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2008 7:00 am PT
Review:  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 211064
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is alll Good there is no Bad things in this game, the graphics are perfect that is what 
 should be in a game and i also think that people are always talking bad but it is perfect for me. 
 I think that the music is great, and also there is good storys in the game. The only thing that 
 i dont like is there is not enough caractors in the game there should be more and the game is more 
 easay thatn i thought it whould be. But i think the game is perfect and in a lot of ways so people 
 that dont have it they should come and get it. And one more thing they should make it longer. There 
 is a lot of good things more than the bad so come and get it fi you dont have it it also is the 
 best game for the wii there is no other game better than this one there needs to be more charactors 
 and more game play. So come and get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DepressionMoon
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is another superb entry in the plumber's 27 year history. This game leaps bounds 
 over all the other mario platformer iterations as the game has some of the best game design out 
 there. The gravity element in the game is just fantastic and adds unique obstacles in the levels. 
 Sometimes I would just leap in circles on a planet just to watch Mario revolve in orbit. Extra 
 lives are still reset back a set number whenever to turn off the game or quit which seems stupid 
 to me since most of the time you have to go way out your way just to get them. The game also has 
 a new collectible called star bits which are used to get a 1up if you get 50 of them, but they 
 are also used to buy hidden levels and power ups before boss fights and speaking of boss fights, 
 mario bosses are still not that challenging, I only had trouble with one and that was only in a 
 daredevil sequence when I was forced to only start out with 1 point of health. I also wished that 
 you could save power ups in the game to use later which hasn't been seen since Super Mario World, 
 but the excellent platforming makes up for that. A lot of the water levels are a little boring 
 compared to the outer space levels you'll do most of the time. This game can be pretty long in 
 length depending on how you play because you only need to obtain 60 stars to reach Bowser, but 
 their are about 100 you can get without even beating the game and after you beat it you can unlock 
 an additional 16. All in all this is a great game that no one should pass up and it will bring 
 nostalgia to you with its memorable old skool music.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy gets a 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red0584
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 7:00 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy for the Wii
  
  PROS
  -great music
  -good use of the Wii Remote
  -polished graphics
  -stunning colors
  -fun levels
  -cool power-ups
  
  CONS
  -hard to 
 get into
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is almost like Super Mario 64. There is a main area (64-Castle, Galaxy-Starship 
 or whatever you may call it) and from that area you enter these levels, in which you get to the 
 end and then get a Star. If you strip everything away but the game play, yes, Super Mario 64 and 
 Super Mario Galaxy are the same, but like Ape Escape 3, sometimes more of the same can be good. 
 We all (or at least most of us) loved Super Mario 64, and it's been a long time, so why not try 
 a revamped version?
  
  The story of Super Mario Galaxy isn't like the deep stories of Final Fantasy games, more like the 
 simple, but fun, story of Ratchet and Clank. Mario is at some sort of party, or festival as you 
 may, and Princess Peach is captured (No surprise here) along with the whole castle. Mario is whisked 
 off into space, and rescued by a floating starship (or what ever it's called) . He meets Rosalina, 
 a newcomer to the Mario games. (She soon appears in Mario Kart Wii)
  
  The levels, or galaxies, of Super Mario Galaxy are very well-designed. From ice worlds, to lands 
 of chocolate and cake, to huge deserts, all of them are beautiful. I found myself playing through 
 the levels again just for plain fun. In these levels are the, oh, so familiar coins which we have 
 encountered since the original Super Mario Bros. on the NES, and the new addition of Star Bits. 
 You can pick them up by scrolling over them with your Wii Remote. Not only are they the currency 
 of the game, they also pose as a weapon. Yes, all of those little Star Bits are a weapon. You point 
 the Wii Remote at the screen and press B to fire one. But if it is something like a Goomba, you 
 will have to kick it to destroy it after you fire a Star Bit at it. It's not tough at all, you 
 just walk up to it and POW!, it's that easy. Now, shooting star bits is no Call of Duty 4, but 
 it's fun.
  
  Mario has evolved from his N64 days of pressing B to punch. He has the ability to shoot star bits 
 as you read above, his jump attack, which you will probably find you won't use much, let alone 
 at all, and the new spin attack. You take the Wii Remote, and then shake it. You will probably 
 use it the most, because it is used for many, many things, whether it be firing rocks back at a 
 boss, or using it to shoot through stars and blast off.
  
  During Mario's journey, he will come across new power ups. You can transform into a Bee, and be 
 able to climb walls of honey and fly for a limited amount of time. You can also turn into Boo Mario 
 and be able to go through walls, as well as scare Luigi.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy has great graphics. Most realistic graphics on the Wii belongs to The Legend 
 of Zelda: Twilight Princess, but Super Mario Galaxy has most beautiful. On your first time playing, 
 you will notice how everything is shiny and polished. Later on in the game, you will realize how 
 stunning the colors are, from the blue and black in the sky, to the red on Mario's cap.
  
  Listen closely, and you will hear the music of Super Mario Galaxy. It's pretty great. The music 
 is just fun to listen to while playing.
  
  Overall, I would recommend it to anyone who owns a Wii, or is a Mario fan. But the only downside 
 to this game is it's hard to really get into. When I got it, I liked it, but down the road, it 
 just got a little old, and so I never really got into it as much as I did in Super Mario 64.
  
  Thanks for reading.
  
  -red0584
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anime-ToL
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  While yes, the Mario franchise has ran strong for at least 20 years, there are some who haven't 
 experienced the franchise's apparent wonder. I am one of those who haven't been well acquainted 
 with the franchise, so I decided to pick up a copy of the game to see how good it was. It was a 
 good game, but it was lacking in some places, and even frustrated me.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  
  While the graphics on the next gen systems could easily match this, not so for the Wii. Well 
 done Nintendo.
  
  Mechanics 6/10
  
  This is their weakpoint, really, it was easy to mess up a control because they mostly consisted 
 of C and the A buttons. These buttons would either let you do a backflip or a long jump, and while 
 this may seem minor, this is really a pain in some places and the game offers no way of changing 
 it.
  
  Story 9/10
  
  A corny story, but is probably seen a lot in the Mario world. Whatever.
  
  Overall 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bksonic123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  Mr. Nentendo has once again impressed us with this spectacular masterpiece, Super Mario Galaxy. 
 In this game, Mario, a plumber, sets off to save his princess Peach (What a suprise) after Bowser 
 kidnaps her and plans to create his new galaxy with her by his side.
  Anyway the graphics are first class for the wii that even surpasses those of some xbox 360 games. 
 The gameplay is based on Mario jumping from planet to planet collecting stars, coins, and a new 
 one, starbits. The orchestral music is the best I've ever heard from stellar-themed titles and 
 is all quite moving, unlike those Star wars music that sounds like a broken kazoo. Overall Super 
 Mario Galaxy is top notched from top to bottom and is by far Mario's greatest adventure yet, and 
 believe me, he's been on a lot of them! Mario fans are mad if they decide not to get this game 
 and those new to platforming games (as they are quite rare these days) give this game a shot, you 
 won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anime_freak22
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  I was kinda nervous buying this game since I really never liked mario games. I get frustrated really 
 easily and I almost never finish a game. However, for the first few minutes I got hooked. 
  
  
  This is one of my favorite games on the wii. The graphics are amazing and very pretty. 
 The story is cute and sucks you in.
  
  I do confess that I haven't finished the game since the last parts are so-so hard and it gives 
 a headche. 
  
  This is a must have for all wii owners. Hardcore gamers are complaining that wii doesn't have good 
 games but this game is for everyone. The replay value not so much to me but I think for others 
 it maybe. 
  
  
  I would have given it 10/10 if I had finished it. I would recommend this to anyone and no matter 
 what you should at least check it out. I'm sure you will like it.
  
  
  If you take the time to collect every star you may have a few more hours at least 30 hours more 
 or less to finish it completly depends.
  
  
  To sum it all up, this game is what we waited for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masta_Jedi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  Well i didn't really expect much from this game when i first got it, but it really caught me by 
 surprise. It's a great improvement to Mario Sunshine, at least in my opinion. It's a beautiful 
 Mario space adventure, the story is basic stuff of the series.. Bowser is causing trouble and kidnapping 
 the princess, and you have to go save her.. but they really executed this well.
  You have to go around from galaxy to galaxy gathering Power Stars (it's very similar to the Shine 
 concept of Mario Sunshine) until you have enough to go and fight Bowser. The way it works is you 
 visit the Galaxies from a central place (kind of like a space station) and you are free to visit 
 them a few times to collect all the stars. Different things happen on the different times you visit 
 the Galaxy, and usually there is at least one visit with a Boss at the end. There is also some 
 visits to the galaxies where a comet will be in orbit, and you will have to do a little challenge. 
 These can be, Racing a cosmic Mario, finishing a level in a certain amount of time, defeating a 
 boss with only one HP, and some others i can't remember..
  Besides the main galaxies you will encounter, there are many bonus ones. Some of them can be pretty 
 challenging, but in my opinion is easier than Mario Sunshine was (or maybe i only think so because 
 when i played Mario Sunshine i was younger and not that good at this kind of game)
  This game is pretty long, and although i finished it, i haven't collected ALL the Power Stars on 
 it yet. There are 120 in total, and then there is a New Game + with Luigi that has 120 more. It's 
 a really massive game, and it's great, you won't get tired of it too soon.
  Overall, the graphics look really nice, with great effects and some beautiful sequences. There 
 is a little depth perception problem sometimes, but you just have to get used to it. The Camera 
 can be a little tricky to move by, especially when its right on top of you. The controls are ok, 
 not THAT good but no major problems. The story is nice in this game too, nothing really new in 
 the bases of it, but it's enjoyable.
  So, if you like Mario RPG games and own a wii, check this one out, you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlushTen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  This game was with it's gravity instantly pulls you in... With incredibly unique levels and gameplay 
 this game is very entertaining. The gameplay is flawless and graphics are easily the best on Nintendo's 
 console. 
  
  The variety of levels found on this game is astounding! They will have you climbing through haunted 
 castes, flying around as a bee, or even avoiding sinking sand in the desert! This games variety 
 is what really makes it amazing! Graphicly there isn't a game that can compare (on this console 
 oviously) . It has amazing models, as well as a very good basic physics that is applied to the objects 
 in the game. Doing big jumps off of little planets and opject will leave you orbiting it for a 
 couple seconds witch is quite entertaining.
  
  However I found this game has two minor problems. First of all is that this game is much too easy, 
 second that in spite of being incredible the first time through it doesn't offer much replay value 
 after having gathered all 120 Stars. This game is however relatively long and should take you atleast 
 30 hours to get all 120 Stars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RetroGamer34233
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  In a word, this game is... fantastic!
  
  Super Mario Galaxy takes the formula that made Super Mario 64 great and built on it to make what 
 I think is the greatest game on the Wii so far. Fantastic graphics, outstanding music and surprisingly 
 well-done controls make this a must-play for any video game fan. Even if you don't own a Wii, find 
 someone who does and check this one out!
  
  Graphics: Screenshots and online videos don't do this game justice (for a closer, but still not 
 perfect look, check out the video on the Wii's Nintendo Channel) . I was pleasantly surprised at 
 how well-done the graphics are. I'm sure the three-dimensional, zero-gravity environments were 
 difficult to build, but they are done flawlessly from what I've seen so far.
  
  Sound: This is the best music in a Mario game since Super Mario Bros. 3 for the NES, although the 
 soundtrack to Super Mario World isn't far behind. It is so clear and plays lightly in the background, 
 which prevents it from becoming annoying.
  
  Controls: I was also very surprised at how well the controls work. The developers did the right 
 thing in limiting motion-sensing controls to actions such as spinning, surfing, rolling and throwing, 
 among other minor functions. The joystick on the nunchuk works just as well as it did in SM64.
 
  
  Gameplay: If you played SM64 or Super Mario Sunshine you'll have no trouble playing Super Mario 
 Galaxy. It took me a few minutes to get used to running around on a 360-degree plane, but that 
 new way of playing is very refreshing. And when you have to perform an action you've never performed 
 before the game does a good job of explaining how exactly to do it.
  
  Overall, this game probably does the best job so far of showing off the meat and potatoes of the 
 Wii. Now this is still just a Mario game - there aren't any intense gun battles and the such - 
 but it still packs that punch of those types of games on the Wii and other consoles. It's a definite 
 must-have for any Wii owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reedjos08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  story:
  many, many years ago a comet came into the orbit of the mushroom kingdom. With it came many, many 
 stars called the star bits. the toads, whouled celebrate the comet with a great festival. Mario 
 was called by princess peach to come to the party because she had a gift. every thing went wrong 
 as the evil bowser sent his ships to attack, mario is able to get to the castle that starts to 
 fly up in the sky but mario gets blown back by one of bowsers men, and land on a weired planet.
 
  
  concept:
  if you have played mario 64 or mario sunshine, you will know about the concept. the concept of 
 galaxy is to jump on enemies and to collect coins and star bites, and the aim of the game is to 
 find stars to fix a space ship, what a concept. you will go though lots of levels, small and huge 
 and collect five stars on each (except for some stages) . the toads join the game and help you along 
 the way and the luigi joins as well, but this time he is playable, if you get a certain amount 
 of stars you can play as him, awesome.
  
  controls:
  to move mario ues the joystick thing, to fire star bites you point the wii remote at the sensor 
 and press b. to jump press a and to pick up star bites point at them on the screen or move towards 
 them.
  
  history:
  it would take me years to explain all of the mario history so here is the game types history. first 
 came mario 64 for the n64, marios first 3d adventure then came mario sunshine for the game cube 
 and then came mario 64 for the ds.
  
  design:
  i have no problems with the design, each stage looks different in there own way, and the hub is 
 bigger and better than ever. my fav stages is defiantly the ones with the doom ships, love the 
 ships, the ice stage is good but of cores it shares with the fire stage, and that is good to.
 
  
  bad:
  this game would have been allot better if it was possible to have difficulty settings, it's really 
 hard to complete some of the boss comet stages and why is there a spring mario, why cant they just 
 have a mario that flys, there is a flying item but its only in one level.
  
  good:
  this game has lots of powers mario can ues, fire mario is back, ice mario is great, spring mario 
 is hard to control, ghost mario dies by sunlight and, "i believe i can fly", you get the point. 
 the gameplay it's self makes this one of my fav mario games ever and there isn't much wrong with 
 it.
  
  conclusion:
  fun, challenging and something to rember for the rest of your life, thats why i agree with gamespot 
 on this one. my next review will be the worst halo game ever, halo zero, see you next time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordMaceX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  Storyline:
  
  As with each generations Mario game you are the red wearing plumber and you are almost always trying 
 to rescue your Princess Peach. Being taken captive by the evil Bowser King of the Koopas, Mario 
 rushes to save her from her peril but this time there is a unique twist. Bowser escaped out into 
 space forcing Mario to follow in which he meets Rosalina. Rosalina controls a space center but 
 the stars and grand stars that allow it to travel space were stolen. While you help Rosalina collect 
 these stars each time you get one step closer to your goal of reaching the princess.
  
  Although first thought I considered space exploration a bit out there, after playing it I was pleasantly 
 surprised. The story provides an old-school Mario plot that you would expect to be less complex 
 and with little character development. If we do not know the story of how this red obsessed head 
 stomping plumber is desperately trying to save Princess Peach from the evil king Bowser I don't 
 think we should be allowed near a Wii anyhow. I may be biased but I think that is how the old-school 
 Mario games should be if it got too complicated it just wouldn't be the same anymore. 10/10
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Obviously the fact that you are in space has a massive effect on the gameplay 
 of Super Mario Galaxy. It allowed them to add numerous cool new features such as gravitational 
 changes (their favorite) , moving between planets, flying, and much more. These changes add not 
 only a lot of fun but a completely new aspect to the Mario platformers, this complexity is entertaining 
 while in actuality still being very simple. I think Super Mario Galaxy was a huge jump forward 
 and make platforming more appealing.
  
  Another obvious gameplay factor in Galaxy is the Wii motion controls. Using these for lots of things 
 such as spinning, shooting/collecting star bits, and much more adds a lot of activity to the otherwise 
 mindless button mashing that some games fall to. At first I was very indefinite on if I would like 
 these controls being somewhat unaccustomed to the Wii, but after playing through this I had decided 
 that the Wii motion controls were not just a gimmick but a great feature anyone can enjoy. 10/10
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  Mario landing n the Wii also gives a new graphical power to the series it had yet to experience. 
 Although cartoony the Mario games have a very nostalgic look to them that most people enjoy even 
 if they criticize other games for it. These improvements in graphics advances the look but keeps 
 it very similar, this allows the game to look great and very modern without looking realistic and 
 losing the nostalgic theme that you see in it. 9/10
  
  Sound:
  
  The music of the Mario games has always been exceedingly nostalgic and fun. Super Mario Galaxy 
 does not disappoint, they provided the themes all Mario fans are dying to hear as well as a variety 
 of new music to fit the feel and themes of the game. I believe the Mario series is one of those 
 games that requires music to create the feel of the game, it gives this happy and energetic attitude 
 that attracts so much more than just the common gamer to it. 10/10
  
  Overall:
  
  There are three large differences that place Super Mario Galaxy ahead as a platformer. One is that 
 the new elements such as changing gravity and planetary travel allow a whole new level of gameplay. 
 He second is tat the new Wii motion controls are surprisingly entertaining and fantastically well 
 done making it one of the faces of the Wii. Lastly is the graphics and sound which amplify the 
 Mario series raising it to new heights that without this energetic and nostalgic feel would fall 
 short of what it has shown that it can achieve.
  
  I think the addition of "space exploration" in Super Mario Galaxy was pure genius. It make the 
 gameplay have all the old additions while expanding on it greatly making it a new game in its own 
 not just another chunk in the history of Mario. I was incredibly impressed with Super Mario Galaxy 
 and suggest everyone on the Wii to get it, the game is a staple of the console. 9.5/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: danger_ranger95
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  
  Bowser is the bad guy as always, and steals Princess Peach's Castle. Mario must set out on the 
 old "save the princess" routine. 
  
  
  
  The gameplay is pretty much the same besides the shaking of either one of your hands to attack, 
 or the star bit shooter (IR pointer) . It is more linear when compared to SM64 or Sunshine which 
 is a nice break, but it also feels the same when the platforming aspects come into play. No big 
 though, anyone should have fun with this game! Just don't expect anything too different besides 
 running around small planetoids or shooting star bits and you should be fine!
  
  
  looks great
  
  feels great
  
  tastes great (don't recommend trying)
  
  but it's the 
 same old feeling when it comes to Mario's previous 3D adventures.
  
  Not necessarily a bad thing because it's still a solid way of playing with Mario, but like Zelda... it 
 could use a different approach than what was tried. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arsenal2010
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 18, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  I saw reviews on this game and everyone i talked to was saying how amazing this game was so i figured 
 i should get the best game so far on the wii. I started playing it and instantly got bored with 
 the beginning. I really think its just me obviously, because most everyone else in the universe 
 is in love with this game. 
  
  The music is awesome of course, and the visuals are pretty good, but thats all i found good about 
 it.
  
  There were some levels i liked, like the fire and the ice planet, and a few others, but thats it. 
 The bosses were stupid, repetitive, and easy. I didn't like when the planets were really small, 
 and i thought the camera was pretty bad too. The planets that were one big land thing were mostly 
 fun, though i really hated swimming.
  
  This game seems great and most people seem to think that way, but there just isn't any depth in 
 this game, its meant to be simple, like most mario games, but this game was just sooooo easy. Some 
 of the wii controls are fun to use, and the 3D stuff is pretty innovative, but something's missing 
 from this game and i feel like it can be easily forgotten after playing it through once.
  
  If your thinking of getting this game its either a hit or miss, thers no inbetween, so i suggest 
 playing it first somehow before buying it, because there are a lot of other great games for the 
 wii worth getting instead of this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hememi
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  i rally like mario even though i was getting bored to the old mario games this is different the 
 graphics are 10/10 so unless you look very carefully you wont see any problems sound 9/10 very 
 nice music you dont here that every game gameplay 9/10 you ngo through very nice levels some quite 
 easy some hard but youll pass most of the levels life span 9/10 you can play this game easily one 
 hundread hours the only thing missing was good multiplayer but the overall is still 9.0 which almost 
 perfect ecxept for some hard parts and lack of multiplayer but otherwise perfect you must buy this 
 game if you have a wii if you dont get a  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rovelius
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 14, 2008 10:15 pm PT
Review:  From the awkward opening to the ridiculous final boss, I am ashamed to admit that Galaxy disappointed 
 me. I had HUGE expectations towards it. I bugged my father for over two months to get it. Sadly, 
 it simply didn't delivered what I was expecting. I'll start by the very few things I liked in it.
 
  
  First, the storyline. It revolves around a new character called Rosalina. From my understanding, 
 she's some kinds of God with certain powers. The game's plotline is cool but could've been a lot 
 better, I wished Nintendo would have focused on more narrative cutscenes than simple artworks. 
 At least, the final cutscene, showing off the Big Bang, was really cool.
  
  Galaxy's second good side is its soundtrack. Simply put, it's one of the best soundtracks I've 
 ever heard.
  
  One of Galaxy's problems is that there are too many moments where I felt like something was missing. 
 One of the most worst ones being challenge. This game is a walk in the park, I can't stress enough 
 how easy it is. Not a single enemy in the whole game offers any real challenge at all, most of 
 them are killed with a single hit. Bowser's battles are also repetitive, easy, and thus, boring. 
 In my opinion, the last battle with him should have been the first one, and the other ones, removed 
 and replaced with harder versions of the final battle. The Final Battle is such a joke, it has 
 an incredibly epic song but doesn't fit very well, seeing how easy Bowser is. I defeated him on 
 my first try without even taking a single hit.
  
  Galaxy is also receiving high praise for it's supposedly innovative feature : walking around small 
 planets. Well, sorry, but it's nothing new. It has already been done back on SNES. Remember Raphael 
 the Raven, in Yoshi's Island? There's also Mad Space in Sonic Adventure 2 and that sized down planet 
 (I don't remember its name) in Ratchet and Clank. And anyway, I don't even like that. I actually 
 HATE the fact that 99% of the game is about turning around small planets. It made me feel claustrophobic, 
 I felt imprisonned ! Not being able to leave such a small surface, continuously walking around 
 it, like a hamster...
  
  The game's graphics is another department which received very high acclaim. Well, once again, I'm 
 sorry but there are MANY better-looking games on Wii (Metroid Prime 3...) . Why everyone thinks 
 it has great graphics is only because of the bloom. Go ahead and stick yourself against almost 
 ANY texture in the game and you'll see how blurry it is. Without bloom, that game would be freaking 
 ugly. 
  
  But that's just the technical part of Galaxy's graphics. How about art design? Well, I have to 
 admit that, for the most part, it's very original and beautiful. Playing between two huge surfaces 
 of lava is a sight to behold and probably no other games will ever do that again. There's also 
 the hovering water levels where you surf on manta rays... but none of it can save such a boring 
 gameplay.
  
  That's right, I hate this game's gameplay. There's the way too easy NPCs, levels and bosses, and 
 it still wasn't enough ? In previous Mario games, if you missed a jump, there was no turning back 
 : you died and that's it. However, in Galaxy, you can always save yourself with Mario's spin move. 
 That spin is a hideous and cheap lifesaver Nintendo implemented for the noobs, it shouldn't even 
 be there. Also, shooting Fire Balls is really not accurate, you often end up shooting on the walls. 
 And that cheap effort Nintendo made isn't worthy to be called multiplayer. More like ''Hey dude 
 I'm just too tired to run after these Goombas, can you hurl some Star Bits or something at them?''. 
 Useless.
  
  Oh yeah, there's also the awkward puzzles which don't offer any challenge at all. It's always about 
 blowing up some stuff or killing enemies. Then - whoa ! What a surprise ! - another Star pops up 
 and you're again sent flying around. The camera starts spinning around, showing Mario's seemingly 
 endless smile, stuck on his face, like if this game was just endless pleasure... Oh and there's 
 also the way you acquire the stars... LOL ! All this music and camera work for almost nothing ! 
 There's no challenge in acquiring the stars at all, the levels are so linear ! You can't even get 
 lost ! It's only about heading straight ahead and wasting dozens of hours from your precious time, 
 which could've been spent playing way better games. The best proof I can give you : completing 
 the game *SPOILER* will award you Luigi. Yes, it may sounds cool, but it's NOT. Playing with Luigi 
 means getting alllll the Stars from Mario all over again. You really want to do that? Isn't that 
 lazy enough from Nintendo? But wait, I'll show you something even more lazy. Luigi can jump higher 
 than Mario, so common sense means that you'd adjust the levels for him, right? Well, Ninty did 
 not. At all. Soooo many glitches were made possible thanks to Luigi... and that is what I call 
 broken gameplay.
  
  So, let's sum it all up, shall we?
  
  Pros:
  
  -EPIC soundtrack
  -Incredible art design
  
  Cons:
  
  -No real challenge, enemy and puzzle-wise
 
  -The actual graphics aren't even that good
  -All the planets thing makes me feel claustrophobic and is not even original
  -Mutiplayer sucks
 
  
  Needless to say that I was HUGELY disappointed in Galaxy.
  I give it a 4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warrior427
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is awsome one of the best Ive ever played and one of the most addictive games of all 
 time I actually think this game may have out done super mario 64 which is one of my favorite games 
 of all time the levels are huge and fun and when you do die you dont get frustrated like in most 
 games its just alot of good gameplay graphics are good and the controls are good and this game 
 never gets reppetitive which is great there is always somthing new and more shine sprites to collect 
 and the space setting makes the game really exciting on thing I do think they could have improved 
 on is the multiplayer they should have had co-op with mario and luigi as a team or do a turn system 
 like the original mario video games and this game isnt just for kids anyone who likes a good platfromer 
 or just a well put together game should try it out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boxofwit
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is a truly fantastic game, easily my favorite on wii. There are just so many 
 ideas in there. Each level is completely innovative and completely different from the last. The 
 level design is truly genious. I thought that the 3D take on the series wouldn't work, but it most 
 definitely has. The camera is perfect, it is almost always at the right place at the right time. 
 not only is the camera perfect, but the controls are good too. The only issue i do have is when 
 you reach the bottom of a planet, this can cause mario to be hard to control. The entire game is 
 played with pretty much just one button. it is amazing how nintendo have managed to create such 
 a stunning game with such simple controls. SMG also looks good. it is one of the best looking wii 
 games i've seen. technically it is not amazing, but the art style is simply lovely to look at. 
 
  All in all, SMG is a perfect platformer, there is lots to do, and the camera and controls are perfect. 
 It completely revolutionizes Mario games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  With the PC, Xbox 360, and PS3 pushing technology more and more each year, observers and both lamented 
 and praised the Wii for eschewing the technology race and focusing instead on value and gameplay. 
 A lot of Wii games, unfortunately, have failed to live up to the promise of delivering great gameplay 
 to make up for the Gamecube graphics. Super Mario Galaxy is one shining example to the contrary. 
 It won't be confused with Crysis or Assassin's Creed anytime soon in the graphics department, but 
 the game's focus on level design and pacing pays off in spades. It is a great platformer, it is 
 arguably the best game on the Wii, and anyone who owns a Wii should be playing it. It is only held 
 back by some lackluster presentation elements and a few control issues that show up in the game's 
 harder levels.
  
  For the record, Super Mario Galaxy is not an ugly game. It is probably the best looking game on 
 the Wii and it runs perfectly without any hiccups. The loading times are extremely brief and covered 
 up very well with short cutscenes, an impressive feat, considering how large the levels are. Some 
 excellent art direction and terrific animation make up for the Wii's outdated technology. The graphics 
 are also bright and full of color. Color  remember that concept? It's the tool that developers 
 used to use to enhance their games before God decreed that every title with great graphics has 
 to be gray or brown. Alas, I digress.
  
  If only the audio was as charming as the colorful graphics. Like just about every other Nintendo 
 first party game, there is little to no voice acting, so information and story are exchanged through 
 scrolling dialog. The music is simple and somewhat lighthearted, but not very memorable. There 
 are numerous audio references to old Mario games dating back to the NES  it makes you wonder how 
 long Nintendo intends to just recycle old content as much as possible and appeal to nostalgia without 
 creating. As someone who never got into Super Mario Brothers, the appeal is lost on me. Nintendo 
 doesn't need to compete with Metal Gear Solid 4 or Gears of War 2 to make a great game, but could 
 they at least update their presentations to what was standard for other games six years ago?
  
  The true strength is in Mario Galaxy's incredible variety in level design, enemies, and challenges. 
 The goal of each level is to grab the star at the end, and once you gather about half the stars 
 in the game, you can progress to the end level. The levels are perfectly paced, so that you never 
 spend more than about 10 or 15 minutes on one of them, unless it is hard and you get killed a few 
 times. Boss battles are relatively short and usually fun. No two levels are the same, and they 
 are all bursting with inspiration. There is simply not one mundane, uncreative level in this game. 
 It never fails to impress you with each new location.
  
  The challenges also vary tremendously. Some levels are full of gravity tricks. Some levels require 
 use of the bee suit. Some levels require a lot of swimming, becoming a ghost, or floating around 
 in a bubble. There is also a huge variety of enemies in the game, drawing from more than two decades 
 of Super Marios. The game is the polar opposite of a game like Doom 3 or Gears of War, which are 
 technologically impressive, but suffer from repetitive design. Some of the frequent camera angle 
 changes and gravity tricks can be disorienting, but it adds to the game's charm.
  
  With up to 120 stars to collect, Super Mario Galaxy is a very long game, and for at least half 
 of it, it is a lot of fun. There are a few problems that creep into the picture, however, during 
 the game's more challenging moments. The biggest issue is that the combination of mediocre controls 
 and oblique camera angles creates a lot of frustration. The Wii nunchuk, since it is not a true 
 analog controller, is only marginally suited for tough platforming gameplay. A lot of jumps require 
 very precise direction and timing, something that is not always available with an 8-direction control 
 stick. Some levels take place on circular disk or rings. Running around them causes the camera 
 to change constantly, throwing off your aim when you suddenly need to make a jump. Sometimes, you 
 might even find yourself accidentally running right off of a narrow platform because a change in 
 direction happens too quickly. The swimming portions of the game are not as well executed as the 
 rest, and some portions (such as the ones where you morph into a giant spring and bounce all over 
 the place) will have you dying over and over again, really testing your patience. Fortunately, 
 the harder levels are usually optional, and even if you only find half the stars in the game, you 
 can easily get 20 hours out of it.
  
  The complaints about Mario Galaxy are ultimately minor. The bottom line is that it is a great game, 
 thanks to some fantastic levels, charm, and creative design. Unlike a lot of Wii games that are 
 simply ugly and not good, Mario Galaxy makes up for its lack of pixel shaders or anti-aliasing 
 with great gameplay. I am not much of a fan of platformers, but I enjoyed the game immensely. If 
 you have not yet played this game, you owe it to yourself to give it a try, regardless of what 
 kinds of games you usually like to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Egamer15
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 8, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Ever since I bought a nintendo wii, I decided that Super Mario Galxy was on the top of my list 
 for the games I would eventually get for the system. I had very high hopes for this game, because 
 of it's incredible critic reviews and high praise. Eventually, I purchased it. Anxious to start, 
 I slid the disc in and clicked on the Super Mario Galaxy symbol on the menu. I was greeted by mario's 
 voice saying "Super Mario Galaxy!!!" which might have been okay, but his voice was shrill and annoying. 
 This is a minor complaint, but it's embarrasing when your family or friends are in the room watching 
 you play. Keep in mind, I'm 15 years old, and I just don't appreciate shrill cartoony voices anymore. 
 Unfortunately, the game itself was surprisingly more aimed at children than I tought. The overly 
 cute enemy models and the squeaky voices of some characters gave me a hint. I was afraid that it 
 was all going downhill from there. Fortunately, the gameplay itself was fantastic. Mario controls 
 excellently, and everything in the game looks beautiful and is animated superbly. It is truly impressive 
 for a wii game. The spherical worlds are fun to move around on, and there are a lot of them in 
 each galaxy. There are also many galaxies in each solar system, and lots of solar systems in the 
 game. Your getting a lot of content for your money. There are a few problems though. The animation 
 is so smooth, that it will start to annoy your eyes after about half an hour. Also, as I mentioned 
 earlier, the kid-friendliness of the game really turns me off. It would have been nice if the game 
 kept its dignity intact. Overall, Super Mario Galaxy is a must-play, but maybe not a must-buy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oblivionownn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 7:38 am PT
Review:  Wow, its been a long time since Mario had a great platformer. Well, im here to tell you that this 
 game delivers.
  
  Lets start on basic gameplay. First of all, i was surprised at how fluid Mario can be controlled, 
 he has no blocky or blotched movements ever.
  
  The game has many original features, including the return of stars and coins, many many stars to 
 collect will keep you hooked for a while.
  
  there are many galaxies to travel to, including a boss fight on each one.
  
  there is also 
 somewhat of a unique story in it too, all about special stars called Lumas, and a new character 
 called Rosalina.
  
  If you have any dought about this game, then you should throw all of that dought away, cause this 
 game is an amazing platformer, and has many, many features (including quite a bit of replay value)
 
  
  The amazing detail in it is not surprising. Its a great new addition to the Mario family of games, 
 i highly recommend this amazing game. Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmashingZyme
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  Seriously, Mario NEEDS to tie Peach down. Going back to the actual review of the game, the idea 
 was innovative and familiar. It felt weird seeing Mario walk a little ball around every possible 
 angle and then jumping from "world" to "world". The control scheme was interestingly ideal, it 
 made sense and it worked flawlessly, something that is not easily found in Wii games. Game difficulty 
 was good, killing Bowser was easy, but other bosses where hard and with those special comets that 
 made things harder there was on boss that made me almost break my nunchuck. Playability, I thought 
 it was going to be shorter, but since after doing it with Mario (ignoring sexual innuendo) you 
 had to do the whole game again with Luigi and after playing with Mario, having to play with Luigi 
 made it slightly harder since Luigi is "traditional" Luigi, in the sense that he jumps higher and 
 "slides" so it was interesting to see him die where Mario would've survived. Overall, the game 
 was interesting and a good play. Can't wait for the next installment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brawl55
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  At first I was unsure about the game I wasn't going to get it but I was going to be missing out 
 on a whole lot of fun. The graphics are beautiful. This game definitely has some of the greatest 
 graphics Ive seen. The story stay the same Mario has to get stars and save Princess Peach. The gameplay 
 for SMG is great. Its addictive and will have you playing for hours and hours to come. The camera 
 can get confusing but not a big deal. The game is as always lengthy and enough to keep you busy 
 for months. Sadly the Co-op is really bad the second player just shoots Star Bits. I think this game 
 was better off with out the Co-op. Music in this game is great and fits the atmosphere. The levels 
 and camera in this game really revolve around the idea that your in a different planet. If you got 
 to the bottom of a planet you will see the top of Mario's head. This game has good use of the Wii 
 remote and boss battles are fairly easy. Overall this a great game you shouldn't skip when trying 
 to pick a game for the Wii. Don't rent this game, buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wa-Ryan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. All the levels (galaxeys) are unique and really, really fun. The graphics and 
 sound are good. The amount of challenge and length of the game is perfect. The crazy gravity mechanics 
 are really fun and this is easily the most unique and best Mario platformer to date. If you have 
 a Wii you should definitly get this game before any other, it's great fun. I also love how every 
 time you enter a level Mario soars into the galaxey and upon landing the screen says "Welcome to 
 the Galaxey!". 
  
  The game makes great use of the Wii remote, it doesn't go overboard with it neither does it under 
 use it. A few levels use the Wii remote almost exclusively, such as the one where you roll on a 
 ball through these crazy obstacles. You control the ball with the Wii remote, pointing forward 
 to accelerate and left or right to turn. The wii remote is also used to help Mario jump, shaking 
 it makes him do a little spin jump upwards. This is a great mechanic and adds a lot of depth to 
 the platforming.
  
  This is one of the few games that, in my books, are actually worth the money. After playing it, 
 Super Mario Galaxey makes my list of the top 5 greatest games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elchaseo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  I don't want to seem like a fan boy, but nintendo did everything right with this game. Another 
 classic mario game. I couldn't have asked for more, this game was perferct. Fun addictive, challenging, 
 the super plumber is back and everything you expect from him has been surpassed.
  
  Mario plays and feels wonderfully, with intuitive controls that take advantage of the motion sensing 
 capabilities without over doing it. 
  
  The graphic styling is wonderful, they have done an excelent job of showing the capabilites of 
 the wii without making it seem like anything less the the 360 or the PS3. Its a shame nintendo 
 won't give 3rd parties equal chance to get their games out, cause this thing is incredible. Never 
 have we seen mario quite as well done, its head and shoulders above Mario 64, and that is saying 
 something. Everything you love about Mario and nothing to hate.
  
  If you like Mario games this game is a no Brainer, if your a fan of platformers again no Brainer, 
 and if your wary of platformers, like i am, and aren't big on the whole jumping from place to place 
 avoiding seemingly repetive obstacles and fighting things by only jumping on their head... well 
 damn... even I liked this game. Well done hopefully we can see some third parties come out with 
 as well polished a game. Fun to the last drop. ENJOY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pikminmaniac
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  It's almost impossible to find a flaw in this game! The camera problems that have pleagued every 
 other 3d platformer in existance are fixed entirely in this game. That in itself is amazing! The 
 level designs are nothing short of mind blowing! Mario 64 has been completely and totally ripped 
 to shreds by this behemoth of a game. The new galaxy hopping is just the right kind of "newness" 
 this series needed. The graphics are still the best on the Wii by miles. I do not know why no other 
 game has even come close to touching this one. The music is orchestrated and is nothing short of 
 exceptional! Even the story is awesome for a Mario game! There are a total of 242 stars to collect 
 and every single one of them is a blast. After that I have continued playing this game to get coin 
 collectiong records in each level. The level designers actually have hidden many coins in this 
 game just for this purpose and it extends the playability of this game to great lengths! 
  
  To sum up: This is the most perfect game I have ever played, but that doesn't make it my favourite 
 (Pikmin to is my fav) . I have yet to find a single flaw! The graphics, the music, the gameplay, 
 the level design, and the story are all quite outstanding! This is without a doubt the best platformer 
 ever made 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exit_293
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  I think that this game is a great game to play to set your time to. The story mode is good (as 
 usual) . Princess Peach gets captured and you have to rescuer her from Bowser. Sounds like the usual 
 Mario game. Right? No, this game is different. You have mushrooms that give you different powers. 
 You have different strikes. These mushrooms can give you powers like to me Fire Mario, Boo Mario, 
 Bee Mario, Ice Mario, and a Mario that can make you fly. And you need stars to you more places. 
 And there is this new thing call, Comets. They can have a variety from Racing, doing the same level 
 but doing different things, on the same level. There are also a new thing. We have Coins and now 
 Star Bits. They are little stars that have tons of different colors. Then sometime in the game 
 you can feed them to a creature that will give you more levels and more stars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joebacca24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 10:32 pm PT
Review:  When I first got my hands on Galaxy, I was a little unsure about it. I was almost certain that 
 it would be a dissapointment. It took about three minutes before I was already proven wrong. The 
 gameplay is remarkable. It brings back the addiction and fun that was kindled with 64. The visuals 
 are beautiful and about the best we've seen from the Wii. Mario has never looked better. I don't 
 know how but after it was all said and done the wii-mote worked well throughout the game. 
  
  It follows the typical Mario save Peach storyline and you don't play a Mario adventure unless 
 that is it. I have no clue how anyone can expect anything differently. 
  
  This Mario game adds space, which is done beautifully. Flying through space landing on little planet 
 and walking completely upside down is done unlike anything you have ever seen. The level design 
 is brillant and can truly be considered a work of art. 
  
  I loved the game and can comfortably place it right next Super Mario Bros., Super Mario Bros. 3 
 and Super Mario 64. If you had reservations about getting the game... Throw them aside! Play! Now! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ubermensche
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 12:53 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is one of those games that is comparable to another in the series, but still 
 manages to create it's own identity. The big thing with Mario 64 was the obvious transition into 
 3-D. 
  
  While Galaxy can not invent a "4D" it manages to make the best use of 3D that I have ever seen. 
 The fact that Mario can move around 360 degrees around the planets makes it feel as if Miyamoto 
 was able to create his own "4D". This concept creates many new interesting puzzles and level design 
 that constantly keep the game fresh.
  
  The music is also one of my favorite aspects. Nintendo finally made a game with a true orchestrated 
 score. Done are the days of MIDI and with the exception of nostalgia, it is nice to see Nintendo 
 finally get the music right. Now we just need a Zelda with an orchestrated score...
  
  Story is typical for a Mario game. But then again, I can't think of anyone who plays Mario for 
 the story. Considered Nintendo forgiven ;) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioLinkGenofa
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Mario has been Mr. Videogame and has not let the mantel slip and has genius game. But the original 
 genre he jumped in for 3-d has somewhat died... But Mario is bringing it back to life with a game 
 thats impossible to sum up, in a good way.
  
  Gameplay- Classic and timeless. Innovative and Challenging. The classic and timeless is easy to 
 sum up if you played Mario 64 travel area to area beat those bad guys kill those evil minions its 
 all here. But Gravity is a new thing and I find it as innovative as possible while jumping platform 
 to platform always feels good jumping to something and being pulled is a new twist and as weird 
 as it sounds they pull it off quite well.
  
  Graphics- Amazing, Genius, Best Wii has to offer. This is what a Wii gamer needs for presentation. 
 And you can't explain how nice it all equals to so just play it!!
  
  Music- Marvelously well done and in this game just as much to hear as there is to play happy songs 
 that just remix the classics summon memory lane while new songs fit well and you'll love what you 
 here
  
  Controls- Its mario does anything else need to be said about the controls Marios conrols are great 
 and this is no exception.
  
  OVERALL- Get this game if you don't have a wii get one, if you have one and don't have this game 
 I laugh at you HARD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Pinbot_
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  After hearing nothing but good things about Super Mario Galaxy from video game review sites I was 
 compelled to go out and pick up a Nintendo Wii to play it. For me it was one of the biggest mistakes 
 of my life. To keep it simple the game was terrible. The first thing that struck me as being odd 
 was the camera control and views for the game. I thought it was something that I was going to get 
 used to, but I never did. The camera was too slow and couldn't keep up with the speed of Mario 
 on the planets making for some very awkward situations where the things going on could not be seen. 
 I even felt dizzy after playing the game for a few hours straight. I have also heard stories about 
 people getting motion sickness from the game which is something I can believe from my experiences 
 of the slow and sporadic camera movement. The next thing that I noticed was how terrible the graphics 
 for the game were. I know that the Wii is very lacking in this department, but Nintendo could have 
 put much more effort in this department. There are jagged edges everywhere even on a very nice 
 television set. The characters are very blocky and the movements don't seem to be very realistic 
 and flow awkwardly. The controls for this game were a joke and make little to no use of the motion 
 sensing capabilities of the Wii. It tries to use the controls as a normal gamepad and that just 
 doesn't work. The "co-op" mode is an absolute joke. One person plays the game while the other points 
 the control at the screen and presses the "A" button; oh the fun. The only thing that I enjoyed 
 about the game was the masterful soundtrack that we have come to expect from Nintendo; but sadly 
 that is all they got right.
  
  If you have played Super Mario 64 as well as Super Mario Sunshine you will be left asking yourself 
 why Nintendo put such a broken and dull game on the market. But if you are new to the series then 
 it will be a good game to play due to the over simple gameplay and linear/non-existant story.
 
  Buy/Rent: Rent
  
  Final Score: 45% or 4.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valentin_702
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  The red plumber gives a little twist (maybe too literally) , and this time it goes for the galaxy 
 (i can't help but wonder... what's next?... i mean, he started in the sewers, then a kingdom, and 
 now the UNIVERSE? what's wrong with this little fella?)
  
  The game falls in the easy side, the bosses usually have great music, but they end so quickly that 
 sometimes you just can't enjoy the music!
  
  The mushrooms/flowers powers are really good and fun to use, unfortunately you just don't use them 
 a lot... by the way... what's wrong with Mario? I mean... the bee suit looks kind of... well, you 
 be the judge. As a matter of fact, the whole game is a little bit ... suggestive let us say.
  
  This game has a decent replay value, but if you're older than 15, the replay may just not appeal 
 you.
  
  Any way this game is really fun, and it's a must for every Wii owner; has crispy graphics, great 
 looks, even greater worlds, very good soundtrack, it's innovative, it's not short (i'm talking 
 about the game, not the character) , some boss fights are awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdisen2
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 12:59 am PT
Review:  While I won't deny the fact that I'm part Nintendo fanboy, I've been quite on the fence about how 
 I felt about the Wii and its software. Most critics of the Wii cite inferior hardware, gimmicky 
 controls, and weak software as a reason to ignore it, and for a time, I believed the Wii couldn't 
 produce a "next-gen" experience. With that said, Super Mario Galaxy was the first Wii game that 
 genuinely impressed me. 
  
  With the Wii's graphical capabilities limited, to say the least, Super Mario Galaxy's graphics 
 were the first thing I noticed. It stands alone as the most beautiful Wii game, with vibrant colors 
 and an artistic flare worthy of any next-gen console. The smooth frame rate lends greatly to the 
 games aesthetic, and makes a good case for the Wii's superiority over last generation consoles. 
 Along with the entirely slick presentation, I also greatly enjoyed the music. Super Mario Galaxy 
 offers a beautifully orchestrated soundtrack that will have you returning to galaxies just to hear 
 the tune.
  
  The gameplay is familiar, but never dull. Mario still controls and feels right. Super Mario Galaxy 
 does however, add a new dimension to the Mario formula, gravity. The often mind-blowing sequences 
 with gravity were an ingenious way to keep the series fresh. I never felt dizzy or uncomfortable 
 about the changes in gravity, and I cannot understate the amount of fun I had in the Battlerock 
 Galaxy, for example. Being launched and pulled from platform to platform by unseen forces was a 
 thrill that never seemed to get old. There were just countless moments throughout the game where 
 I just couldn't help but smile. The only things that may hamper your fun are a few hitches with 
 the camera and swimming control, but I interpreted these issues as more an increased challenge 
 than an unintended burden. The game design more than makes up for these shortcomings with underwater 
 tricks like turtle shells, and mostly-free camera control.
  
  The game's difficultly was on the easy side, if not just right, keeping a veteran gamer like myself 
 entertained while making it possible for my gaming-ignorant mother to beat the Dino-Plant boss.. 
 eventually.. after about a dozen lives. The new co-op features are to thank for her victory, allowing 
 me to assist often and effectively. While the story isn't as good as say, Paper Mario, there is 
 more story here than any other Mario platformer before it, which is commendable. In the end, this 
 is the best Wii game on the market and an extremely fun and charming experience. There is plenty 
 of magic left with Mario and I look forward to his next adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthew137
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  I LIVE PLAI LIVE PLAYING SUPER MARIO GALAXYYING SUPER MARIO GALAXYI LIVE PLI LIVE PLAYING SUPER 
 MARIO GALAXYAYING SUPER MARIOI LIVE PLAYING SUPER MARIO GALAXY GALAXYI LIVE PLAYING SUI LIVE PLAYING 
 SUPER MARIO GALAXYPER MARIO GALAXYI LIVE PLAYING SUPER MARIO GALAXYI LIVE PLAYING SUPER MARIO GALAXYI 
 LIVE PLAYING SUPER MARIO GALAXYI LIVE PLAYING SUPER MI LIVE PLAYING SUPER MARIO GALAXYARIO GALAXYI 
 LIVE PLAYING SUPER MARIO GALAXYI LIVE PLAYING SUPER MARIO GALAXYI LIVE PLAYING SUPER MARIO GALAXYI 
 LIVE PLAYING SUPER MAI LIVE PLAYING SUPER MARIO GALAXYRIO GALAXYI LIVE PLAYING SUPER MARIO GALAXYI 
 LIVE PLAYING SUPER MI LIVE PLAYING SUPER MARIO GALAXYARIO GALAXYI LIVE PLAYING I LIVE PLAYING SUPER 
 MARIO GALAXYSUPER MARIO GALAXYI LIVE PLAYING SUPER MARIO GALAXYI LIVE PLAYING SUPER MARIO I LIVE 
 PLAYING SUPER MARIO GALAXYGALAXYI LIVE PLAYING SUPER MARIO GALAXYI LIVE PLAYING SUPER MARIO GALAXYI 
 LIVE PLAYING SUPER MARIO GALAXYI LIVE PLAYING SUPER MARIO GI LIVE PLAYING SUPER MARIO GALAXYALAXYI 
 LIVE PLAYING SUPER MARIO GALAXYI LIVE PLAYING SUPER MARIO GALAXY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoofproduction
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2008 6:39 am PT
Review:  Okay, when I saw the adds for Super Mario Galaxy, I was a little skeptical. Mario running upside 
 down, you gotta be joking. But then I finally got to play the game, and I was totally blown away. 
 The level designs, wonderful world designs, graphics that had been stepped up big time, and just 
 super fun game play, and you've got Super Mario Galaxy. The story is a bummer though, with just 
 peach getting kidnapped again, but it's at least not bad with a couple of okay cut scenes. In this 
 game, like previous Mario platformers, you collect stars, and you must collect a certain amount 
 to face the final boss, who is, of course, Bowser. The levels are well balanced and fun, and at 
 just the right difficulty setting. The graphics, once again, are crisp and clean, and really add 
 a lot to the game. Plus some great camera angles. Plus Wii motion sensing really makes the game 
 enjoyable.
  All in all, an amazing game that is 100% worth buying, and would just about recommend it to anyone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OICWUTUDIDTHAR
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Felt like such a long wait for this sequel eh? Well all I can really say about this game is... 
 It's Mario... Being Mario. Can't get much better than that.
  
  One of the first thing's you'll notice is that... Sarcasm aside. This is problably the happiest 
 game ever made. Can't help but crack a smile while playing this. It leaves you with a good feeling 
 inside the entire game. Also the most "Epic" Mario game.
  
  The game's controls doesn't do anything too new. Much closer to Mario 64 than Sunshine. Although 
 instead of the three punches, you shake the Wii Mote and does a spin attack, works extremely well, 
 feels comfortable and satisfying. Still got your triple jump and ground pound and such. All the 
 good stuff.
  
  You problably already know this, but the big twist that servers this game from all the other past 
 platformers is the sense of gravity. You jump from planet with these strange effects. You can go 
 upside down and around. Feels good, can make you feel.. a little weird the first few times doing 
 it though. You can even jump around small planets.
  
  The plot.. Well.. Same old, Bowser kidnaps peach and he wants to create his own dark galaxy of 
 some sort, not the most original idea obviously, but if you've been playing Mario games for their 
 story lines... Well... I don't wanna know who you are anymore...
  
  The enemies reminded me of Super Mario World a bit with how they looked and the goofyness of it. 
 So that was a treat. they're the basic enemies you'll find in a mario game. Goombas, Koopas, Magikoopas, 
 bloopers and a bunch of others, a lot of original monsters aswell that work good. The bosses.. 
 They're not very difficult. Look pretty insane, but only a few of em provide any difficulty.
  
  To advance in the game you will have to find different stars across the Galaxies. Simply find 
 a galaxy and choose a goal, much like the paintings and portals from the past Mario games. You'll 
 only need 60 to beat the game, which isn't too hard, to get the first 60, but if you want to unlock 
 everything in the game (Worth it) you'll need 120 stars, and getting that many, can be very challenging.
 
  
  Well the part of a game that I care for least is the graphics.. (Unless it's an RPG) And I have 
 to say.. The graphics were.. amazing. Definatly the best on the Wii I've seen. Everything is so 
 detailed and colorful. Problably one of the best designed games ever created so far, it's able 
 to match up to the 360.
  
  One thing I was shocked to see, the return of fire Mario. If you don't know what that is, that's 
 his first extra outfit ever, from the first Super Mario Bros. You were able to shoot fireballs 
 (Hard to figure out?) . Also changed his color scheme to red and white. You have a variety of other 
 outfits too that control well, although controlling Bee Mario is... Annoying. And bounce mario 
 is also hard to control, but bounce mario is so insane that its just awesome to control anyway. There 
 are other outfits, but.. I'll let you find out for yourself. There are other little surprises here 
 and there. But I won't spoil anything for ya.
  
  As for the overworld... It's amazing. It's pretty big and just.. running around it with the great 
 music and all the... Happiness of the game is just incredible. Really makes you feel something 
 that makes these games worth playing.
  
  One of the best things about this game I can't get over is the music. I NEVER thought that orchestrated 
 music would be so amazing for a Mario game. But I guess for an adventure so epic as this, it fits 
 perfectly and is some of the best I've ever heard in a game. I've never been a fan of orchestrated 
 music because sometimes it feels forced. But.. that's far from the case here.
  
  There.. Really isn't anything wrong with this game in all honesty. This is truely a must own for 
 the Wii. In my opinion, it's the best game on the platform and one of the best games to ever come 
 out. All I have to say now is... Miyamoto, is a genius. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pandajerk29
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is by far the best game for wii to date, i'll admit the fact that boss battles 
 is like beating up on a blind person but all the level designs are awesome and is why this game 
 is great. this game was one of the only wii games to be on the GOTY, and it still won on gamespot 
 and ign (beating Bioshock, Call of duty4 and Halo3) i know that really does not matter but still who 
 saw that coming. but i digress the bottom line is that super Mario Galaxy is still a great game 
 today and should be looked at how to make a good game. The game has all of the controls like super 
 mario 64 but redone for the wii, in fact the really reminds me when i was young playing mario 64. 
 if you try and get every thing the game has to offer you'll be playing this game for a really long 
 time. I don't want to sound like a stupid parent but with all the guns, blood and violence that game 
 like this in which the whole family can play, is this good. THANKS FOR READING! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Mo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 2:05 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  Its Super Mario, it takes place in many solar systems, what more don't you want? The gameplay in 
 this game is outstanding, from planet to planet, you also have many galaxies, from ice to fire 
 from grass to water. Also the power-ups, such as the bee mario, ice mario, the all new great spring 
 mario, however there are still old school power-ups such as fire mario, metal mario and star mario. 
 You also have comets that appear at different times and change your gameplay, including a timed 
 challenge and so on. But thats old stuff. We are looking for something new and innovative. Well 
 Mario Galaxy provides that, GRAVITY. Yes jumping between planets and checking which has the bigger 
 gravitational pull to pull you in. Also going around upside down and backwards. Despite all the 
 cool, new and great 3D elements, there are some old-school 2D side scrolling levels that still 
 make use for the gravitational features.
  
  Graphics:
  
  This game has shown what the Wii is capable of, the graphics are impeccable, from the icy areas, 
 to the burning volcano's the graphics in this game never ceased to amaze me, the style, the art 
 and power of the graphics on a non graphically game console like the Wii is just amazing.
  
  Sound:
  
  The official mario music has been changed, no more of the good ol' mario songs. 
 However i can say that the change in sound is not bad. The new music fits more with the out of 
 space theme this game has been projecting. It's new and exciting and once again has added a few 
 good tunes to the mario soundtrack.
  
  Value:
  
  Worth the price? Of-course, i mean its Mario, in a universe with gravity, with the same old great 
 cliche Mario story, why wouldn't you buy it? The adventure is long and is great, and once the main 
 quest is completed, you still have another half of the game to complete. With the features it gives, 
 the different styles of playing, the graphics and the massive adventure, then yes it's definitely 
 worth the price.
  
  Tilt:
  
  How long will this game last? quite a lot. You need 60 stars to complete the main quest. 120 to 
 complete the game and you still have 120 to go as you go through the game as Luigi. So yes if you 
 plan to do all this then it will last a while, if not then you will probably beat the main quest 
 and open the game every now and then to get a star or two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FurtherIntel
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2008 11:11 pm PT
Review:  This is a definite 'must have' for the Wii. Better and smoother controls, slick design, beautiful 
 graphics. Not too much use of the wiimote, not to little. Fun boss battles too. This is definitely 
 one of my favorite 3D platformers of all time. Very lengthy gameplay + a chance to play as Luigi. 
 All around good-clean-fun. And one of the best Mario games ever made. Unfortunately, there is not 
 much of a story, but other than that its awesome. Mario's new spin attack is much better than his 
 usual, and it has great music. A must-have that has the best of everything combined into one great 
 game.
  
  The Good: Great graphics, great soundtrack, slick controls, something that everyone can enjoy, 
 just plain fun, good bonus missions, some replay value involved
  
  The Bad: Not much of a story
  
  
  
  Get this game, its a must-have title for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IcemanBryan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Mario Galaxy is a great game over all from its graphics, to its game play.
  Pros:
  -Awesome game play
  -Amazing graphics
  -Fun levels
  -New feel to mario games
  -O. K. story
 
  -Fun with friends
  -Music is awesome as usual
  
  Cons
  -Not lasting
  -Gets boring
  -Has an empty feeling
  
  There u have it overall i think it is worth playing. Rent it first 
 to see if u like it. One of the best mario games of all time in my book.
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
   Rock on Mario
  
  . (....\............../....)
  . \....\........... /..../ 
  ...\....\........../..../
  ....\..../. I.`\./ 
 
  ..../... I.... I.. (`\
  ... I..... I.... I....\...\ 
  ... I..... I. I. I..\...)
  ...\.....` .. .......' ROCK ON!
  ....\_________.
  ..... oh ya.. 
  ..... oh ya!...
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vomalities
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  This game is great in a way that words can't explain. The gameplay is simple yet challenging, but 
 the overall strength lies in the games overall charm, with an excellent diffusion between, textures, 
 sound effects, in-game music, and story. If there's any bit of youngness in you... you WILL feel 
 light hearted after playing this game, just like how many used to feel when they/we were younger.
 
  
  It gives you plenty of hours of play time, as there are WELL OVER 120 stars to collect (if you 
 plan to squeeze every ounce of gameplay out of it) .
  
  Co-op mode is an interesting addition, as it is welcoming, but doesn't hinder the gameplay, and 
 can potentially make you do better if you and your partner are strategic.
  
  All-in-all, this game is a wonderful experience and I urge all Wii owners to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G6games
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  This is the seqel the the very popular mario N64. I really wouldnt considered Sunshine the seqel 
 since that game was stupid, boring, babyish and all the above. Galaxy has GREAT graphics for a WII 
 game, after you beat it all the way theres still more replay value not going to say what but its 
 worth it. The game is fairly big and if you go for all the starts it can keep you going for awhile 
 First looking at the mario game I thought it was going to be stupid, running around in all them 
 circle planets but it can actually be fun. 
  It has the ships like in Super Mario 3 NES. It has bosses actually besides bowser. Mario will have 
 a BEE suit in the game which is about as cool as the raccon suit back in the NES days. The fireball 
 mario is also back along with ICE mario can freeze water, Spring Mario can jump higher, I may be 
 leaving one out but the game is very creative and one of the best if not the best wii game out 
 there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightning_kf
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  It was blatantly obvious that with the Wii launched in 2006, Nintendo would also try to outdo themselves 
 by providing the most unique Super Mario game for the console. In my opinion, they were able to 
 pull off certain elements to make it so, just a bit.
  
  We've seen Mario travel through the Mushroom Kingdon in the first Super Mario game for the NES. 
 We've seen Mario travel through Dinosaur Land with Yoshi for the SNES. We've seen Mario investigating 
 the likes of Peach's Castle for the N64 ending with Mario.... cleaning on the GameCube? Okay I wasn't 
 a fan of the plot behind Super Mario Sunshine. THIS TIME, Mario takes to the deepest depths of 
 space. Yes, space.
  
  I'm not going to spoil the story behind it, so let's get to it:
  
  GamePlay: 8.5/10
  Very well constructed mechanism for the game, as every thing necessary 
 to control Mario and the environment blends well with the Wiimote. Though the minigames such as 
 Ray Surfing and Ball Rolling can be annoying to control since, well, the joystick on the Nunchuck 
 would've been better. Also, the camera can lead to slight hazards if you are not careful. The thing 
 that differentiates Mario 64 from Galaxy to me was the camera and freedom of it. With Galaxy you 
 have it, though it's a bit limited. I do love how in certain areas the camera switches to give 
 a 2D effect to the way you control Mario. Paying homage to old-school 2D gets a thumbs up for me.
 
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  This is where I say Nintendo has literally outdone themselves. The graphics of this game are top 
 notch and is arguably the greatest Mario game, graphic wise, that they have launched. I shudder 
 to think that they outdo themselves with the next Mario game. That would be something to see.
 
  
  Sound: 9.5/10
  Sound effects are perfectly made to distinguish each form of mannerism done in the game and the 
 orchestration of the music are beautifully done. The remixes of various classic stage music from 
 the likes of Super Mario Bros. 3 and Mario 64 instantly brought me back to my childhood, reminiscing 
 on the good times I had with Mario on his earlier adventures and how far we have gone in the gaming 
 era as a whole.
  
  Story: 8/10
  Once again, not spoiling the story. It uses the same formula for the games, yet with this adventure 
 going into space, it gets a major boost.
  
  Replay Value: 9/10
  Just like Super Mario 64, Galaxy will have you wanting to play more. Also like its N64 predecessor, 
 you have 120 stars in all to find (and by doing so will unlock a secret character to play with, 
 which I also will not be mentioning though people would already know who it is) .
  
  
  --------------------
  
  
  Overall:
  This is nowhere near "Best Mario Game" ever to me, 
 cause Nintendo did that years ago with both Mario Bros 3, 64 and Mario World (3 games which will 
 never be dethroned) . Graphics and presentation wise, it excels over them. Overall feel to them, 
 not really.
  
  I will say this about Super Mario Galaxy being "epic" from a gameplay standpoint: soaring through 
 the solar system waving the Wiimote around exploring planet to planet is really cool, but the boss 
 fights is what REALLY makes this game epic. The atmosphere around them is top-notch, though defeating 
 them is relatively easy (as well as the game as a whole) .
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is truly a great addition to the Wii console (probably ranked 5th overall for 
 my vantage point) , though the camera and somewhat easy challenge kinda hurts it. In all, I give 
 this game a
  
  9/10 (8.9) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flightofdragon
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 4, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  Ok, let me start out by saying this game probably has the best graphics there's ever gonna be for 
 the Wii. Next, the level design is so awesome that you can't stop playing this game until you've 
 collected all 120 stars! The bosses are really fun because they're not too hard or easy and they 
 look absolutely fantastic. Nintendo had some great ideas for levels and bosses like there'll be 
 a haunted ship, a honey bee colony, a lava land, tons of water stages, and that's only the beginning 
 of the list. The controls are magnificent and easy to operate. The value for your money is through 
 the roof because you'll be playing this game for hours because this game is so fun and enjoyable. 
 The only thing bad is that instead of 3 hits before you die maybe they should've made 5 but that's 
 how I feel about every Mario plat-former so that's only something little to think about. This is 
 a must-get for everyone who owns a Wii so save up your cash and get gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BambooStudios
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is both nostalgic and fresh at the same time. It's a perfect balance of difficulty 
 and will appeal to almost anyone any age... as long as you get along with Mario of course. This 
 is truly a modern classic.
  
  It's too bad this title wasn't available at launch as a pack in with the Wii, but I'm sure Nintendo 
 made a lot more money on it as a standalone product only. Maybe it will be a pack in for a 2009 
 or 2010 bundle. Anyway, this is definitely the flagship title for the Wii and if you own one you 
 definitely need to play this game!
  
  More than any other game on the Wii, this one really makes me wish that the system was capable 
 of HD resolutions. It's a shame that such a gorgeous game has to be so pixelated and/or blurry 
 on an HDTV. Anyway, this is a shortcoming of the Wii, not the game, so I won't hold it against 
 Mario Galaxy. The game itself really is perfect.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paper_Jellly
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2008 3:49 am PT
Review:  Ooo goody another Mario Classic! Let's get right into the review.
  
  Graphics
  ~~~~~~~~
  Ahhh, I just adore these graphics. The water suspended in mid-air is brilliant I could 
 just stare at it all day... except then I'd need glasses. The graphics are surprisingly good for 
 a Wii game and the characters look amazing. Not that I usually care about graphics that much, but 
 this is lovely.
  
  Sound
  ~~~~~
  Nothing special with the sound effects, although I sometimes make sounds like them in Sync with 
 them. The music is nice and memorable. What else to say here? Oh! One of the things I didn't like 
 was that every so often Rosaleen would talk for a few words then stop. Nintendo should have just 
 stuck with the word-dialogue. 
  
  Game play
  ~~~~~~~~~
  Ok some people had a problem with the motion controls, but I just say, "Get over it." It takes 
 a while to get used to spinning around but after a hour or two you'll be pro. The only problem 
 with moving around is planet hopping which is sometimes frustrating at time. The game is a bit 
 easy at the start, but fear not. It gets harder later on. Bosses are generally fun but easy. The 
 game is pretty linear, but it's not that bad. You can 'beat the game', but then you've still got 
 tons of stars left to acquire which will be a joy exploring all the far-fetched worlds.
  
  Story
  ~~~~~
  Same old, some old. Peach gets captured, Bowser acts cocky and gets owned old 
 by Mario.
  
  
  Overall this game is a superb masterpiece which any Mario fan would love! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tacoeater831
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  I was appaled when gamespot didnt give galaxy a perfect score. Nintendo power gave it a 9.5 and 
 apologized for not giving it a ten. This game has amazing graphics. A great storyline for a mario 
 game. (it sorta had one) plus the gameplay and the difficulty felt right for each other. Plus with 
 120 stars then playing through the game as luigi when you gat them all, it has lasting replay value. 
 The point of the game is bowser kidnaps peach again (shocker) and takes her to outer space. So you 
 need to go to al these galaxys floating in the middle of nowhere to get power stars to get to bowser. 
 this game is spectacular from start to finish. People owe it to themselves to play this game. And 
 When you people out there say that mario games are childish. Then the part of the ending with bowser 
 and his planet. Its not that its scary or anything. But its cool and really entertaining. so, bottom 
 line, PLAY THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maugely
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so everyone knows who Mario is and I am sure a lot of people have taken the time to learn 
 the history of Mario, where he came from, how he got his start. It's all interesting stuff. Some 
 of it I believe and some of it I would have to hear from Miyamoto himself. But the fact is that 
 for any Mario based game you pick up, you don't need to know anything about him to enjoy the game. 
 Why? Because gameplay is always key in a Mario game. It's not the story that draws you to it. How 
 many times can you save the princess before the story just gets old? In my opinion, the story in 
 a Mario game is just there to give you purpose. It's there to explain why you are jumping massive 
 chasms of certain death, hopping on the heads of walking mushrooms (with eyes) , and facing off 
 against some big turtle with spikes who throws endless streams of axes at your head over a pool 
 of molten lava. Why else would you even bother? It's to save the princess. I admit, Miyamoto and 
 his team always manages to make the story fun, but to me it is never really epic. It is never something 
 that sticks with me after the game is over and really makes me feel like I did something. Well, 
 Super Mario Galaxy has broken free from what I have always known to be a Mario game, in both story 
 and scope. What could be more expansive than the universe and what could be more heroic than saving 
 it while in pursuit of your Special One?
  
  Instead of describing each part of the game in its own paragraph, I'm just going to sum up all 
 the typical things that we rate games on in a few sentences. First, the graphics always look absolutely 
 gorgeous even for a not so high res system on my high res TV. The colors, the effects, the animations, 
 and everything else to do with the graphics were just perfect. Second, the sound is top notch. 
 Even though there really isn't much in voice acting, the sound effects are never anything but well 
 made and the soundtrack does an excellent job of representing the atmosphere of the level or boss 
 fight. Thirdly, as with most of the Mario games I have played, the game play is phenomenal. The 
 developers pay so much attention to control that you can never really blame anyone but yourself 
 if you die. I think that pretty much covers all the typical stuff.
  
  Now I'll describe some of the things that made it all worth it to me to spend the many hours it 
 takes to beat this game (many many hours) . First, the boss fights are a lot of fun. As is typical 
 of Miyamoto in designing bosses in his games, each boss is a puzzle. It is always so satisfying 
 to figure out the puzzle. Sometimes it takes me a few lives to see it, but once I figure out the 
 puzzle it is always doable without a lot of frustration. Games need to be challenging as I progress. 
 I don't like games to be too easy, but I also recognize that there is a level of difficulty that 
 is just not accessible to most gamers. Miyamoto knows this as well and it is very evident in Super 
 Mario Galaxy. The boss fights are challenging, fun, creative, and over-all enjoyable.
  
  Secondly, the space exploration is just too much fun. The worlds are not massive, but they are 
 spread out. It's such a trip too look around. The gravity thing never gets old. In fact, I spent 
 a good 20 minutes on a piece of one of the galaxies I was on that had a very small radius just 
 making running jumps and watch Mario orbit around it before touch back down on the ground. The 
 gravity thing is very well done and it is heavily worked into the puzzles throughout the game.
 
  
  Thirdly, as I hinted to in the first paragraph of this review, the story in Super Mario Galaxy 
 steps outside of what I have come to know as the typical Mario saves the princess story and actually 
 caries with it some real emotion. Sure, you don't think about it while you are in each galaxy trying 
 to get the next star, but each time you get back to Rosalina's starship the reality of what you 
 are fighting for is ever present. If you play this game, make sure you read the stories in the 
 Library on the starship. Rosalina's character actually has a lot more depth than the typical Mario 
 game character, but you won't see it unless you read the story as it becomes available to you in 
 the library. Both Rosalina's back story and the main game story have some very emotional moments 
 that are well worth the experience. I'm not going to give anything away. You will just have to 
 experience it for yourself.
  
  To sum this up, I'm going to say that I am a grown man who has been playing video games for a long 
 time. I've watched them evolve in the most amazing ways. It's hard to believe that I once stood 
 in a ZCMI store in the mall in my home town to play a demo of Super Mario World before the SNES 
 hit the shelves. I was amazed that this creature called a Yoshi could swallow up a shell, spit 
 it out and swallow it back up again as it came hurling back after bouncing off of another object. 
 I thought to myself, "now that is interactive." Of course, my gaming experience started quite a 
 while before the original NES even came to be, but I will never forget that moment. Super Mario 
 Galaxy is a work of art in the gaming industry. Miyamoto and the people who stand behind him are 
 true artists in the world of game design and development. The story has been done to death, and 
 yet it stands the test of time. Mario is the greatest hero the world has every known, and he is 
 also the most unlikely. I recommend this game to anyone. It's not only worth the $50 shelf price, 
 it fully justifies owning a Wii.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DGDFDGFBBYT
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 30, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 82 % : When i heard that super mario galaxy came out on the wii i was happy because i 
 tough it was going to be like the GBA clasic games but when i played it i was impressed because 
 you can travel in different galaxies to get the stars but when i was half way done the game i was 
 kinda disapointed because the game repeats itself there`s not allot of things to do because your`e 
 like stuck in your little town.
  
  
  Graphics 80 % : The graphics are awesome for the wii i was impressed.
  
  Sound 80 % : The sound 
 is pretty good it sounds like the classic mario games i`ve used to play.
  
  Value 79 % : I think that paying 45 $ isn`t worth it.
  
  If you get fifthy stars dont think 
 that you`ve beaten the whole game in total to beat the game completely you need about a 100 stars.
 
  
  i reccomend this game for zelda fans and mario fans also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shyguy1234
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 29, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  One word can sum this game up. AWESOME! This is my type of a mario game!
  Graphics:10/10. These graphics are the best in any mario game!
  Gameplay:10/10. This game has 
 to be the best platformer of ALL time!
  Music:9/10. Well this is some good ol' mario music.
  (Actual) Difficulty:9/10. The game is pretty easy and all in the beginning, but of course not all 
 of mario games STAY easy.
  Replay value:10/10. Even though you won't get a star for it, you can still replay all of your favorite 
 levels.
  Boss/Enemy fights:10/10. These have to be my FAVORITE fights in a platformer!
  Storyline:9/10. The storyline is kind of predictable, but it still has a few twist and turns in 
 it.
  Well, that about sums up super mario galaxy. If you love mario, want a new wii game, or just want a 
 good platformer, definitely try to get this game. If I had tochoose between super mario 64 and galaxy, I 
 would have to choose galaxy. That's about the biggest compliment I could give a game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrashmaster
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is a good sequel to the earlier counterparts and introduces some fun upgrades and new 
 way of doing things. I am a little disappointed that they took a step back from multiplayer capabilities, 
 only allowing the other person to pick up and shoot star bits. It is also very easy, I never felt 
 challenged through the whole game, I only died a few times in the game, and even the final fight 
 with bowser didn't offer a challenge.
  
  
  GRAPHICS: 9.8
  The graphics look very nice and compliment the Mario world very well. They are not ultra realistic 
 and I wouldn't want them to be in a Mario game. But the whole game looks very nice with only a 
 couple revealing faults in the cinematics but you can easily overlook those with how great everything 
 else in the game looks.
  
  
  CONTROLS: 9.5
  Very smooth and easy to use for the most part. The did not introduce any complicated motions that 
 you had to memorize in order to play the game well. It became a little annoying though when the 
 camera would flip around you when you are trying to run straight and you end up trying to compensate 
 for the camera.
  
  
  GAMEPLAY: 8.0
  The levels are either to simple and straightforward or they are not straightforward enough. I was 
 hoping they would leave in a bit more room with exploration in this game and leave the gameplay 
 a bit more open with what you can do, but because you see so many good things in the game already 
 it does allow you to forget about the fact that you don't have more places to explore. But like 
 I said before, it is all just far to easy for my taste.
  
  
  SOUND: 8.5
  You can tell they spent a good amount of time implementing the sounds in the game and it has paid 
 off. It is a great treat to hear the new sounds they have chosen for this game alongside some of 
 the old recognizable sounds from previous games. My only real complaint here is that I didn't feel 
 like the music was supporting the faster paced part of the games, or even the slower parts. I never 
 really felt like the music they chose was correct for the pace.
  
  
  STORY: 9.0
  Of course the story starts off this the princess being kidnapped my bowser but while you are trying 
 to find her another story is unraveled about the girl who is helping you find her which I think 
 really helped out the game.
  
  
  MULITPLAYER: 3.0
  This is one of my biggest disappointments in the game. I was hoping that the second player could 
 be Luigi and play in turns as you could in either Mario 1 or 2. But instead the second player could 
 only point the Wii-mote at the screen to pick up and shoot star bits. Which is something that the 
 first player can do very easily on his own anyway.
  
  
  FINAL: 8
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dizzyman572
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Mario is back and better then ever on the Wii. 
  
  8/10 Story -- The story starts you off with an invitation from Peach saying:
  
  Dear Mario
 
  
  I'll be waiting for you at the castle on the night of the Star Festival there's something I'd like 
 to give you. 
  
  From Peach
  
  With invitation in hand Mario headed off to the castle just as the Star Festival was getting into 
 full swing. Surrounded by Toads gleefully trying to catch falling Star Bits, Mario was looking 
 forward to the night's festivities. But then something happened.... 
  
  That's right Bowser comes in and ruins the whole Star Festival, (What a party pooper) and not only 
 that, he kidnaps Princes Peach. (Again) Determined, Mario goes after Bowser while he's taking the 
 whole castle into space, only to get blast into deep space by one of Bowser's little minions. What 
 happens after that? Well your going to have play the game yourself to find out. I'm not going to 
 spoil the ending, but if you've ever beaten any of the Mario games before this, than you already 
 should know. 
  
  10/10 Graphics -- Certainly, Super Mario Galaxy is one of the few Wii games out there with great 
 visual design.
  
  9/10 Sound/Music -- What do you think? Mario has some of the best unforgettable music out there; 
 I still can't get that dang theme song out of my head!
  
  9/10 Gameplay -- Somehow Super Mario Galaxy is able to keep the exact same Gameplay fresh. 
  
 
  Surprisingly the gravity defying platforming is fun and works very well in this game. 
  
  Every once and a while you'll run into these things called: Prankster Comets. These comets 
 have a strange affect on every level in the game, such as a time limit or racing against yourself. (Weird) 
 Mario can also change into different outfits, these outfits have different effects on Mario. 
 
  
  Bee Mushroom will make Mario fly short distances and stick to honey coated walls.
  
  Boo Mushroom will turn Mario into a ghost; with this you can go though bars and certain types of 
 walls. (Warning, other ghost may find you attractive) 
  
  Rainbow Star will make Mario invincible for a short time; he can defeat enemies by just touching 
 them, and many more after that. 
  
  9.7/10 Super Mario Galaxy is the best game in its series, and it's definitely something anybody 
 should get if have or considering to get a Wii. Oh, and it's good for kids.
  
  I give it five Super Stars out of five.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Michelle-
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is one of the best games on the wii it gets you through a new experience .. 
 but Mario in the space its not a quite good idea and a lot of people agree with me cuz we used 
 to play Mario series in open areas with green grass and blue sky and Mario Galaxy is missing those 
 things .. I'm not against the renewal but not in this way Mario spirit almost gone in Galaxy its 
 like you're playing another game ..
  
  Storyline
  As usual Bowser attacked the Mushroom kingdom and kidnapped Princess Peach and Mario knocked unconscious 
 by blast then somehow Mario found himself in planet and a little star called Luma awoke him and 
 then they decided to rescue Peach !!
  
  Sounds
  They are great and goes along with the levels and on some levels you're gonna find classic sounds 
 from the previous Mario's adventures ..
  
  Graphics
  Good but the levels not colorful and most of it so dark ..
  
  Gameplay
  You have to collect 
 60 stars at least in order to defeat Bowser and rescue Peach so you're gonna travel through galaxies 
 and find the stars .. the levels are short and tight so you'll find the stars directly and you're 
 not gonna lost .. there are no challenging stars or secrets and I collect all the 120 stars in 
 less than couple of weeks : ( 
  
  
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is entertaining game worth the trying ..
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yodas_Boy
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Mario Galaxy is not only the best game on the Wii to date, but arguably the best Mario game ever 
 created.
  
  The gameplay in Galaxy is absolutely phenomenal. Whether you're using gravity in surprisingly creative 
 ways to solve puzzles, fighting epic end bosses, or just running around having fun exploring, you'll 
 always be having fun.
  
  Visually speaking, Galaxy is the best looking Wii game to date. Environments are large, everything 
 is bump/reflection mapped, there's a great use of fur-shading, some light blooming, and a solid 
 frame rate to boot. If you're a Wii owner and want to see what your little white box is truly capable 
 of, or want to show it off to your friends, this is the game to get.
  
  As great as the graphics and gameplay are, it's possible that the strongest part of Galaxy is actually 
 the soundtrack. You'll often ask yourself while playing, "is this a Mario game or a Final Fantasy 
 game?" The music is just that good, and most gamers will be pleasantly surprised to hear the incredible 
 and beautiful soundtrack playing along with them in the background throughout the game.
  
  Galaxy is the epitome of a perfect game. There are zero significant flaws, it is fun to play, it 
 looks and sounds fantastic, and it manages to make good use of the Wii-specific controls without 
 making them irritating. If you haven't already, go buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Engranag
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  "Super Mario Galaxy" is the first Mario adventure set in space, a "magical" Universe where Mario 
 can actually breathe... but who cares? 
  
  Bowser's plan in this game, not including the kidnapping of Princess Peach, is probably the greatest 
 that he did in more than 20 years: he wants to create a new Galaxy using the magical Power Stars. 
 This time, Mario must save the entire Universe! 
  
  The biggest difference with older Mario games is surely the gameplay. It may take sometimes to 
 some players to learn, but once you realize how to move Mario on those cute little planets, it 
 all changes to pure Mario-fun. The amazing Graphics is of course part of the fun.
  
  "Mario Galaxy" is also the first Mario game where the background musics are played by an orchestra. 
 Those BGMs are some of the best from Nintendo in my opinion. 
  
  With this game, Nintendo hits a home run: "Super Mario Galaxy" is one of the best Wii games at 
 the moment. Be sure to buy it, even if you're not a Mario fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DesertClawX2X
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit it; few platformers can stand up to the peppy Italian juggernaut known as Mario. Sure, 
 not every game has been a sure-fire hit (see the overly-experimental Super Mario Sunshine or the 
 death-bringing Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels) , but even when Mario is at his worst, he's still 
 a leg ahead of most of the competition. And when Mario's at his best... that's when he defies expectations 
 and blows everyone away. And that's the case for Galaxy. It's the quintessential example of why 
 Nintendo has endured for so long in the industry. Super Mario Galaxy is one of those games that 
 you should pick up without a doubt or second glance. If you don't, you should be kicking yourself 
 in the ribs for years, because you're truly missing out on something special.
  
  The plot is something that you've come to expect from a Mario game. Bowser has returned to his 
 role as chief villain and attacks the Mushroom Kingdom during a centennial festival (honoring a 
 comet that led to the creation of the Power Stars) to (guess what?) capture Princess Peach once 
 more. Mario, ever the valiant hero, pursues the Koopa army, only to be blasted into space. How 
 does he survive? Beats me. Upon regaining consciousness, Mario forms an alliance with an interstellar 
 princess named Rosalina (who bears a striking resemblance to Peach) and her infant-star companions 
 known as Lumas. 
  
  The rest of the game will be your typical light-hearted Mario fare, but if there is one poignant 
 scene, it's the ending. In a plot twist reminiscent of anime classic Akira, you might even feel 
 sad for everyone involved (yes, that includes Bowser) . It is, however, quite ambiguous and definitely 
 leaves room wide open for a sequel.
  
  There's also a secondary (and optional) subplot about Rosalina and her meeting with the Lumas. 
 It's somewhat out of place, and you can definitely make do without it, so there's no real need 
 to divulge into it.
  
  You'll notice very quickly that this isn't the traditional Mario platformer that you're usually 
 accustomed to. Sure, Mario - relatively speaking - is controlled in a fashion similar to the last 
 two 3D Marios (i. e. he retains many of his incredible jumping techniques such as triple jumps, 
 somersaults, long jumps, and wall jumps) . But that is where the familiarity ends. With the exception 
 of a pseudo-intro level (that you'll play for all of 5 minutes) , all of Mario's adventures will 
 take place in the far reaches of space. Therefore, many of the game's levels will consist of platforming 
 challenges and puzzles that make use of inverted gravity. In fact, some of these levels up the 
 ante by mixing gravity (or lack thereof) with staples such as ice, lava, and underwater sections. 
 It might be a bit disorienting at first, but it's quite cool.
  
  The game's flow once again follows the Super Mario 64 template: collecting stars in order to open 
 up more pathways, eventually leading to the inevitable final battle with Bowser. Certain stars 
 can't be accessed without performing specific tasks first, and many don't reveal themselves until 
 after you've beaten the main game. In order to add some variety, comets will periodically appears 
 over certain galaxies within the main hub. There are five comet types in all (Speedy, Daredevil, 
 Cosmic, Fast Foe, and Purple) , each one having a different effect upon the corresponding level. 
 For example, Daredevil Comets cause Mario's lifebar (which normally has a initial value of 3, but 
 can be temporarily increased to 6) to stay at 1 (meaning that he can't take any damage whatsoever) , 
 while Cosmic Comets force Mario to race against (and best) a Shadow Mario-esque copycat to a certain 
 destination.
  
  The game also includes some intuitive controls via the Wiimote. For example, shaking the remote 
 causes Mario to spin. By itself, the maneuver is a potent attack and doubles as an additional jump. 
 In addition, it can be used to trigger stars that launch Mario through the air, as well as other 
 moves such as swinging on vines and ice-skating.
  
  The Wiimote can also be used as a pointer that fires out Star Bits (fragments of stars that you 
 collect in-game) . These Star Bits can be used to stun most enemies, as well as uncover hidden items 
 and feed hungry Lumas (which in turn, leads to the formation of new planets and galaxies) , and 
 perform other miscellaneous tasks.
  
  In what I presume is one of the biggest homages to the series (and a little bit of fanservice) , 
 Galaxy contains one of the series' largest collections of powerups. From old-school (yes, the Fire 
 Flower makes an appearance in a 3D Mario at last!) , to improvisations on other concepts (i. e. Ice 
 Flowers which allow Mario to freeze water, Bee Suits which grant Mario with the gift of flight 
 and ability to stick to certain walls, etc) , to new, surprising power-ups (there's a Boo Suit that 
 allows Mario to cloak himself, hover, and blend in with other Boos? I'm there!) , players will be 
 presented with interesting play styles that should stay fresh for the most part. There'll even 
 be some nifty challenges that revolve solely around Mario's cache of power-ups. The only tradeoff 
 is that most of the powerups limit some of Mario's abilities, meaning that players will have to 
 be extra careful not to make a wrong move.
  
  Should players collect 120 stars with Mario and defeat Bowser for a second time, they'll be given 
 the greatest present from Nintendo in a Mario game ever: a fully-playable Luigi. While Luigi's 
 story is an exact retread of Mario's, at least he's playable. Expect to turn everything upside-down 
 while playing as the eternal second-fiddle; like many of his 2D platforming incarnations, Luigi 
 has superior aerial ability in comparison to his older brother. However... this does come at the 
 cost of his traction...
  
  The only problem is the difficulty itself. For one, it's incredibly easy to rack up extra lives; 
 you'll find countless 1-Up Mushrooms, Star Bits, and Coins just about anywhere you turn. Even if 
 you find yourself in a jam, I guarantee that you'll persevere due only to the amount of lives that 
 you'll amass. While the challenge does ramp up by the time you unlock the extra galaxies and final 
 levels, seasoned veterans of the series (and platformers in general) shouldn't have too much of 
 a problem. However, this is the Mario series; with all but a few notable installments, universal 
 accessibility has been a top priority in the series. If you're a "hardcore" gamer, the difficulty 
 may be irksome, but you'll adapt fast enough. Besides, you'll probably be having too much fun to 
 care!
  
  The graphics are quite polished, even more so than Super Mario Sunshine. It's not something akin 
 to what you'll see on other "next-gen" platforms, but for Mario, it works quite well. Besides, 
 Mario doesn't need "hyper-awesome super-realistic graphics" to be a great game. I'll take substance 
 over style any day.
  
  Galaxy's musical score is stellar and seems to have taken a page from The Legend of Zelda: Twilight 
 Princess. You'll notice that the music is much more interactive than in the past. For example, 
 your altercations with Bowser will consist of a booming, almost uncharacteristic orchestral piece, 
 but when the Koopa king is vulnerable to attack, the tempo of the music changes, with additional 
 instruments and choral pieces added into the mix. Other than that, the music remains true to the 
 spirit of the games; joyous and uplifting. Old-school gamers will even notice the inclusion of 
 pieces from older Mario titles. Now that's style.
  
  Audio-wise, it's your typical Mario fare. Mario and Luigi's vocabulary still consist of the familiar 
 whoops, grunts, and broken Italian that they've become famous for. Peach screams as she is kidnapped 
 by Bowser for the umpteenth time. Bowser roars like a dragon (which is odd for a turtle) . You get 
 my drift. Longtime fans may notice that many of the regulars from past games didn't reprise their 
 roles this time around. Instead, every character (with the exception of the Mario Bros.) have had 
 their voices recorded by new voice actors. Many will shrug this off since the voice acting is well 
 done (albeit severely limited) , but fans who have stuck with Mario since the dawn of the GameCube 
 era may find it somewhat odd.
  
  The only question is... what's next? Mario's been just about everywhere now. Hopefully, the next 
 installment of the franchise will be as much as a refresher as Galaxy.
  
  Long story short, you need to get this game. No question about it. Galaxy is one of those rare 
 games that caters to everyone. Mario returns to top-form in his latest journey, and you had best 
 not miss out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinobisoma
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 6:13 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is a sequel to Mario 64 and Sunshine. It starts off pretty epicly as Mario runs 
 through a Toad Town and Peach cries out for help. I wonder what could be wrong... No way! Bowser? 
 I didn't see that one coming. Yes. Bowser has kidnapped the princess yet again. Then, the adventure 
 begins. 
  
  Gameplay (9/10) :
  The controls in this game are perfect. Absolutely perfect. It's not a wagglefest and it feels just 
 as good as playing Super Mario 64 did. The game is about 10 hours long if you just want to beat 
 it but if you want to go for it all and get all the stars then it may take you anywhere from 15-20 
 hours. Oh and I almost forgot, once you get all the stars you may want to play the game all over 
 again. *hint hint* The only real thing that bugged me with the gameplay was camera angles. Having 
 bad angles on Daredevil comet missions will get frustrating for you.
  
  Sound (10/10) :
  "Yah! Wah! Yahoo!" 
  The best part of this game was the soundtrack. It is pretty darn epic. Probably 
 the best soundtrack in any Mario game so far. It almost makes me want to buy the soundtrack.
  
  Graphics (9.5/10) :
  The bes graphics on wii so far. Metroid Prime 3 looked good but Mario 
 Galaxy easily passes it in visuals. Now some compare the graphics to 360 graphics. I don't know 
 about that but Mario Galaxy definitely looks great. It's no Gears of War though. :P
  
  Overall, Super Mario Galaxy is one of the best games on Wii out there right now. I loved playing 
 every moment of it. It is worth buying and keeping in your Wii Library and it lives up to the greatness 
 of traditional Mario Platforms.
  
  [9.5/10]
  
  ~Shinobisoma
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mistahtom
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  I like this game. I am addicted to playing it. But I found it to be very frustrating. Making a 
 3D platform that takes place on planets wasn't such a great idea. I know that since this is the 
 Wii, being innovative with controls is a must for gameplay. And I know that this is Super Mario 
 Galaxy, it is suppose to take place on planets and out in space. But this game could have been 
 so much better if they didn't use planets as the setting. It would have been fine if they stuck 
 to the same format that Sunshine used. Sure some of the levels are done in the same style as Sunshine, 
 but when it came to walking on around on different planets or satellites, I found myself just falling 
 at every turn. If you don't get I'm saying, basically, I didn't like the Secret Shine levels in 
 Super Mario Sunshine either for the exact same reasons (gawd those were a farking **** So maybe 
 it's just comes down preference.
  
  That was my only complaint about the game. Everything about it was incredible 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frostybro24
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay-10
  Graphics-10
  Replay Value-9
  Tilt-10
  Music-9
  Level Design-10
  
  Overall-98.5% (see my blog for scoring info) 
  
  
  If you've been waiting for the must have 
 game on the Wii, here it is. Galaxy tops Mario 64 as Mario's best 3-D platformer. If you have a 
 Wii, you get this game. If you don't have a Wii, you get a Wii because of this game. it's that 
 good. Seriously. 
  The difficulty is perfect. If you want to beat the game, you get 60 stars. If you want "beat the 
 game" you get 120 stars. If you want to "beat the game" beat the game, you get 242 stars (not joking) . 
 Get this game. Right now. It is mario at his best.
  Wow I have gotten 120 stars and what a ride. I'm hungry for more!
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dymond7
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that I would've reviewed earlier, but I was scared I'd get my head chopped off my 
 fanboys because I didn't give it the usual 10 or 9.5, but I don't care, it's my own opinion and 
 I'm entitled to it.
  
  Gameplay: Fun I guess, I didn't really like the whole running around over planents, I mean it should 
 taken place in like... I don't know, but Super Mario Sunshine had a better setting than this, but 
 other than that, the controls are perfect, but.. I love Mario being 2D and I always will so I can't 
 really give game a high review, because I enjoy Mario being 2D unless it was Mario 64 and if I 
 review Mario 64, I'd give it a 10, but this is no Mario 64.
  
  8/10
  
  Graphics: Gorgeous Graphics, I think it's one of the best on the Wii, very similar to 360/PS3 graphics 
 and everyone has to admit it, PS3/360 graphics have is certain touch to it that even if you didn't 
 know on which system the game was coming out on, you could've known that it's a PS3/360 game, and 
 this game had that touch.
  
  10/10.
  
  Story: like I said, I didn't like the whole running around across the galaxy thing, but it's fine 
 really.
  
  7/10
  
  Conclusion: It's just me, I just didn't like it that as much as most people did, but still I think 
 this game is worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vreshifola
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  is a very innovative game, the way may sometimes be "irritating" because you die and have to start 
 all over again, but it is great fun, difficult, and with a touch of fantasy, after all, what we 
 expect from Super Mario? 
  you need the 60 stars to defeat the final boss, but not all, take 120 stars, the final boss mate 
 again and opened Luigi, you have to get all the stars again with Luigi, but with a higher level 
 of difficulty, but It is worth trying!
  It has many types of stars, the normal, where you can boss killing and other goals, you can have 
 the winning in a time limit, the other where you should go on stage only with low energy, and in 
 my peeve view is to have 100 coins that get purple ones, really, this is the most annoying of the 
 game. 
  But do not stop play, if you have not! I suggest you buy, and you already have congratulations, 
 you have a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShiggleeB00
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  To sum up Super Mario Galaxy quickly, its fresh, yet its old school.
  
  The gameplay is simple most of the time, with some tricky parts and some moments of genius. The 
 story is solid and interesting, and there are tonnes of points when theres no enemies around and 
 you stop and just listen. You hear that remeniscent music that takes you back to the NES days with 
 some of the original music from the old games.
  
  Not to say the new music isn't brilliant as well though. I didn't notice how good it was a the 
 time, only when i was listening to some mario classics did one such song pop up and i instantly 
 recognised it. I can only hope it will be used in future mario games.
  
  Mario Galaxy is well worth the money and even when you finish it, don't give it in to the first 
 game shop, but keep a hold of it. Even though you've played through it, you cant help but play 
 it all over again.
  
  put simply, it's a MUST HAVE!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lio83197
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  Definitely a great game. Even though the goal of the game is the same (save the princess) , the 
 road to that goal is way different. It is similar to the old Super Mario platform games, where 
 you must go to a different world and in each world you will have 3 sub-levels. Basically at the 
 end of each level you collect a star and you must use these stars to eventually get to the center 
 of the universe to save Princess Peach.
  
  It is a lot of fun, but there is a downside to it. Two player mode isn't all that its could've 
 been. All that player 2 really does is point at the screen with the Wii mote and shoot things, 
 although sometimes it can be helpful if you are distracted by something else. This is definitely 
 a game worth having because its Super Mario, and no matter who you are you have to love this Italian 
 plumber. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Berserkerz
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 15, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Seriously dudes and dudettes. 
  Would ANYONE buy this game 
  or rate this game so high?
  if the main character was like... a squirrel. 
  
  It's very biased how these people judged 
 the game, 
  But i understand i mean, 
  people do get nostalgic, 
  and it's MARIO right? love him or hate him, 
  it's MARIO!
  
  It's the dude who plays every 
 single sport,
  and STILL is FAT. 
  
  But i'm judging the game as if mario ISN'T in the game. 
  If he isn't, people would seriously 
 wouldn't buy the game
  but this game IS actually good. 
  I mean if it was a squirrel, 
  That squirrel would turn into like...
  crash bandicoot. LOL. 
  I mean they actually did that 
 with Crash right?
  A mario gameplay with a strange dude, 
  turned into a cool game. 
  So the game IS good, 
  the graphics is good as well, 
  the sound... not really, 
  (although 
 the lego mario theme was kinda cool)
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is an ohkay game, 
  it's great actually. And if you want to get biased about the characters of the game, 
  then it 
 gets better. LOL. 
  
  go buy it if you have a wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wswedin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  I haven't played this game much, and the only reason I have it is because it came with my Wii. 
 It is an okay game, but like I said, I am not into this type of game.
  
  One thing that is nice is that it boggles your brain going upside down and what not on worlds. 
 One of the annoying things however is the lack of control the second player gets... he/she can 
 only make you attack and pick up things. Well, I suppose there is a little more, they can stun 
 monsters. I wouldn't really want to be the second player, but, some of my family members/friends 
 would.
  
  All in all, it's like super mario sunshine (I, ironically enjoyed that more, but it was less well-made) 
 but more places to go, and a bit more in depth. The biggest difference is probably the fact it 
 is two player, and relies heavily on the motion sensitive abilities of the Wii. That aside, I would 
 recommend this to any casual gamer, or, super mario fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kunlun
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  September 14, 2008  Where to begin? First off, this is one of the best Mario games every made. 
 Secondly, whether people like Mario or not (how could anyone not?) , the game itself is extraordinary. 
 Similar to the previous Mario games, Super Mario 64 and Super Mario Sunshine, this is a 3D platformer 
 and players will have plenty of freedom to move around. This is the best looking Mario game to 
 date and one of the best designed as well. That's saying a lot as the franchise has had some of 
 the best designed platforming games ever.
  
  As usual, Princess Peach is kidnapped by Bowser and his goons. This time however, he doesn't take 
 her away to his castle; instead he rides into space, to the center of the universe. Mario's planet 
 gets destroyed and Mario and the Mushroom Kingdom are scattered across space. Mario lands on a 
 strange space station and a lady named Rosalina is determined to help Mario save Peach. To get 
 to the center of the universe power stars must be collected to increase the power in the space 
 station to be able to travel that far. Power Stars are scattered across the universe in different 
 galaxies and in those galaxies are stages that need to be completed to attain them.
  
  For the most part, Super Mario Galaxy is a single player game. There is a novelty feature that 
 allows Player 2 to collect and shoot star bits as Player 1 controls the character, but that kind 
 of becomes boring for Player 2 after awhile. The nunchuck controls the character movement and ground 
 pounds while in the air. The Wii Remote has the jump button and can be pointed at the screen to 
 collect and shoot star bits. The motion controls for the Wii Remote are used at times to control 
 the character in certain stages or to knock over enemies, it's not overly used and that really 
 is a good thing.
  
  In the game Mario collects Power Stars, Grand Stars, and star bits. Power Stars will allow players 
 to unlock new galaxies, Grand Stars unlock new sections of the space station, and star bits can 
 be fed into Lumas (cute little creatures) to unlock new galaxies and shoot enemies or other specific 
 things in stages. The game actually starts off pretty easy and progressively gets more and more 
 challenging. The boss fights do seem to be a little forgiving and rarely pose a big challenge though. 
 The later galaxy levels can get a bit tricky, but trial and error will get players through them 
 without too much frustration. There is a lot to do in this game, lots of platforming stages to 
 complete and some mini game challenge stages too. To fight Bowser and rescue Peach, one only needs 
 to collect 60 Power Stars, but there are 120 Power Stars in total, so there's really a lot to do 
 even after beating the game. Also, obtaining these stars unlocks new chapters in a story book that 
 Rosalina is reads to the inhabitants of the space station.
  
  Graphically, this game is very polished and looks fantastic, probably some of the best graphics 
 we'll see on the Wii. The classic Mario soundtrack returns remixed to fit the galactic theme of 
 the game, very nicely done. Sound effects are done nicely and go with the flow of the game as well. 
 There isn't much voice acting, just some sounds that Mario makes while performing some moves and 
 Rosalina speaking a word or two. Most of the information will be given through text, there's not 
 much so it's definitely not going to drag the game down.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is a marvelous game, a game that just about anyone can play and enjoy. There's 
 a ton of innovative gameplay and ideas in this game has just makes it a must-play. Controls feels 
 good, the story is classic Mario, it looks great, it sounds great, and it plays great. Really, 
 not many flaws in the game and it's a definite classic for the Wii. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: copp62
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  this game rocks! the level design take mario to the next level! and you will be playing this game 
 for a long time. i rented this game for two days and beat it but i played for like 10 hrs and i 
 just beat the game with 60 stars but you can beat the entire game with 120 stars and unlock luigi 
 but how great this game is you'll want to play it over and over again!! 
  
  the story is like any other mario game which if you haven't played any mario games it goes like 
 peach gets kidnapped by browser and mario has to save her which is a sucky story but if you play 
 mario games for the story then that's just stupid.. the twist is that while she gets kidnapped 
 they blast mario into space which takes the series to new limits. there is also a new character 
 called Rosalina.
  
  the graphics are some of the best graphics for the wii yet. the characters look great and the evironments 
 are awesome enough said.
  
  next is the gameplay which is one of the main reasons to own this game. like i said before this 
 game takes mario to new limits. there are a couple new elements that mario has like fire mario 
 which is one of the old ones but still is sweet, bee mario which allows you to fly for a limited 
 amount of time, spring mario which is one of the worst ones because it's really hard to control, 
 and one that actually lets you fly for longer and better than the bee mario which i forget what 
 it's called, another one is boo mario which lets you be a boo which really is sweet.. your gateway 
 to all the stars is a spaceship which when you gain stars you unlock more of the ship and the owner 
 of the ship is Rosalina. mario still has all his jumps and all that so don't worry.. 
  
  now what is really great about this game is one little thing and that is the soundtrack which is 
 the best in any game i have ever played. which is another reason to get this game and the soundtrack 
 really goes great with the levels. you will probably find yourself humming it while you play the 
 game.
  
  mario games don't get much better than this but how long will the game last you?? the game will 
 take about 10 or so hours to beat but then there still is 60 more stars to get and tons of new 
 comets to come in and plenty of places to explore. plus that and theres co-op mode which allows 
 one of your friends to come in and help you collect stars bites which help you unlock more places. 
 then when you collect 120 stars you get luigi and you'll probably want to go through and beat the 
 game with him. 
  
  now peach is safe til the next game which hopefully will come soon. but all is well in the mushroom 
 kingdom and now mario and your wiimote can rest. but the game is great and life goes on and you 
 kinda feel sad that the adventure is over. you have beat browser and all the other bosses in this 
 galaxy and you feel right at home. and the game kinda feels like super mario 64 in space or if 
 you don't feel that than it feels like a sequel and i say this because it brings all of the same 
 elements as super mario 64 and brings back some of the classic enemies. so there you have it this 
 game is so great that i give it a 10 out of 10
  
  graphics: 10
  sound: 10
  gameplay: 10
  lasting appeal: 10
  overall: 10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Charization
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  Super Mario makes his debut on the Wii as a sequel to Super Mario 64 and Super Mario Sunshine. 
 Is it worth the money? YES!
  
  The story is the same as the last games. Bowser, the monster, kidnaps Princess Toadstool aka Peach, 
 and Mario has to safe her. But this time it's in outer space!
  
  This game has more in common with 64 than Sunshine. Same music, for instance. And in this game, 
 you have to play against Bowser three times and 'kill' him with the same methods again and again, 
 like in 64. It may sound boring, but it's not. And there's no waterpack this time, so it's more 
 like 64. But is it better? ...
  
  There are a lot of different gameplay elements in this game which lets you travel to different 
 planets and worlds.
  
  The music in this game is just awesome. Nintendo really did a lot of work on this. The controls 
 are also amazing. You use the Wiimote to do a lot of stuff including some minigames.
  
  As in the previous games, this game has 120 stars to collect, PLUS you get to play as Luigi after 
 you beat the game once, so it's very solid.
  
  I think this game is better than 64, to be honest. This game is one of my favorites. So much to 
 do and the best graphics for the Wii to date. If anything needs a 10, it's this game. I usually 
 never give 10's, but this game just deserves it. Unlike the previous games, this game doesn't get 
 boring easily, and is worth the money.
  
  It is a MUST HAVE for the Wii. I love this game to death and I will always keep it in my collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martingalaxy
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Lets blast out to space with Mario in this game! You can even play as Luigi in this game! The gameplay 
 is fantastic, but kinda hard if you just played it. Graphics are very cool with all new character 
 Rosalina and all the other Lumas. Mario's all new attack is the spin. You can kill or stun some enemies 
 with this attack! If you are done with the game you need to have 120 stars in order to play as Luigi, but 
 has the exact story. This game has very nice 3-D graphics. That's why I rated this PERFECT! The controls 
 are very good, like you have to shake the Wii renote in order to do the spin attack. If you like 
 space you will love this game beacause it takes place in space! This game is the 2nd most popular 
 game in the Wii! You will really love this game even though you don't love Mario! That is why I want 
 this game to be the most popular game instead of super smash bros. brawl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AbyssD
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy its really fun and big game whit awsome graphics for Wii in this game there 
 is alot of planets to go some side missions to do if u like afcorse cuz each level u can replay 
 4 or 5 times whit different style and different way to go so its like never eninding game :D if 
 u ppl like Super Mario Sunshine u will definitely will love this one the remmote in this mario 
 its not complicated if u get use to it only will be a bit when u will walk upside down but it ok 
 the rest in the game really fun and amazing this game has good story good musics awsome graphics 
 and fun gameplay if u ever get Wii trust me thi is the first game to try so don't miss your chanse 
 to buy it or unleas try it well there is not much to say u just need to try it your self and see 
 well thats was my smal review about Super Mario Galaxy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegandDia128
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 2:20 am PT
Review:  When it comes to Mario games I enjoy playing them but it seemed that this game was more of a letdown 
 then enjoyable. Honestly the wii controler does not work for the game whatsoever you will find 
 your self getting more annoyed with it than having fun. This game compare nowhere near how fun 
 Mario 64 is I only wish that Nintendo had made it funner cause honestly I don't want to even try 
 a new Mario Platformer after this. Once again you must collect stars which is not a bad thing its 
 what you do in these kinds of games. Most of the stars a very hard to get and perhaps to hard I 
 had more difficulty at the beginging of the game. Serious id you ask me I would not recommend it 
 to anybody but thing is most people who play it will enjoy it. It was fun sorta but it would have 
 been funner if the wii romote worked half of the time and the game was not so difficult 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kitten470
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 10, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  When i first got my WII when it came out I was disapointed. I thought, this is no better than my 
 gamecube, all it is really is just another system with a new controller. But mario galaxy really 
 showed me what the WII can do. After you beat it all the way, you can play as Luigie. Its kind 
 of like learning the game all over again cause the controllers are diffrent somewhat. Its the same 
 routine is N64 you collect 120 stars. Some of the stars can be way to easy but the ones that are 
 hard makes up for it. Like the one where you can only get hit one time on some of the bosses can 
 be nerve racking. Blasting from galaxy to galaxy can be cool. The game is abit of 3-d mixed into 
 platform. The game does have a decent amount of worlds. oh and flower mario is finally back, being 
 a bee is something new and neat, You can also be Ice mario and freeze water, its just so much different 
 stuff you can do. if you own a wii bottom line is you need to get this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cecil_Highwind
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 7:06 am PT
Review:  I was very skeptical about the quality of this game, until I played it!
  Story: This one starts out a little differently than the others. You receive a note from Princess 
 Peach telling you that she has a present for you. You dash happily down to her castle to find out 
 what it is. Just as you get to her castle, Bowser flies in on an airship (No, this is not Final 
 Fantasy XIII, sadly) and abducts Peach's castle, with her inside. You hitch a ride, but as soon 
 as you get into space, a magikoopa blasts you away. You wake up to find your self surrounded by 
 rabbits, who propose a game of hide and seek. You agree and play with them. You find and catch 
 them all, and are taken to Rosalina, who takes you to the comet observatory. You must defeat Bowser 
 and regain all the stars to power Comet Observatory to fly through the stars so you can rescue 
 your dear Peach. 9.5/10
  
  Replayability: If you find all 120 stars and redefeat Bowser, you can play through the game as 
 Luigi. He has totally different jumps lengths and different running speeds. 10/10
  
  Gameplay: This game has great gameplay. The motion controls do not just seem tacked on, and they 
 fit perfectly. They work perfectly, never misinterpreting a move. The regular controls are very 
 good, you can pick up this game's controls in seconds. 10/10
  
  Graphics: The graphics are amazing, everything looks perfectly smooth. More games need to have 
 graphics like these. 10/10
  
  Overall: This game is perfect, except the fact that you can predict almost every turn of the story. 
 With a bit different story, this game would have been perfect. 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DerekLoffin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 11:57 pm PT
Review:  This is a strange one for me. I've always had an odd relationship with the core Mario title. I 
 play them, I truly appreciate them, but they just don't inspire the level of enjoyment that I'd 
 expect.
  
  Now, I bought this boy several months ago. Due to various things at the time, I never got around 
 to playing it until recently. So, finally I got sick of seeing a high end game sitting collecting 
 dust that I paid good money for and I put aside everything else to play it.
  
  Now, right off the top, you have to admire the look and design. Levels are very interested, twisted 
 (in a good way) and unique in feel. I think only a couple felt like slight retreads of others, 
 but even then they had totally unique qualities that made them feel fresh. Graphics wise there 
 is nothing really to complain about here. Everything runs smooth, looks pretty (as Mario games 
 go) and does a more than sufficient job. Big cudo's to Big N for this aspect of the game.
  
  The actually gameplay takes a few stumbles, but nothing too serious. Most the game is centered 
 around going to various 'Galaxies' and running around this tiny planets, with gravity and physics 
 putting a interesting spin on things. I've personally played a few Ratchet and Clank games that 
 toyed with some of these same ideas, but never to this extent. Despite the oddball nature of things, 
 I only found myself briefly perplexed on a few puzzles and in general it's plays quite well.
  
  Where things go a bit astray is in the camera and controls. If you're worried about a Mario 
 Sunshine camera, relax, this is WAY better than that, but still not without it's issues. I found 
 myself killed more than once by a sudden camera move, or an enemy suddenly popping in from completely 
 out of view. However, these incidents were few in number, and while annoying they didn't hurt too 
 much. Besides these few areas, Nintendo seems to have largely learned their lesson here from Sunshine 
 and polished the camera quite well.
  
  My bigger peeve with the game is the controls. Due to the nature of the twisted gravity, you find 
 yourself upside down, running up walls, and in all sort of weird positions, often switching very 
 quickly between them. The problem here is the controls don't translate well when this happens (at 
 least for me) . I got through the game, but more than once I got very irritated at having to fight 
 with the control scheme to get things to do what I wanted them to do. I have very low tolerance 
 for this kind of thing, and this really stuck out against the game for me. It's unfortunate as 
 it's really the only major complaint I have in an otherwise very solid and polished game.
  
  In the end, like many of it's predecessors, I can truly appreciate and applaud Mario Galaxy 
 for being arguably the best Mario since 64, perhaps even better. Sadly, due to my own particular 
 pet peeves, that didn't make me enjoy it all that much. But, then again, I could say the same for 
 other Mario titles too. I definitely recommend it without reservation to anyone that enjoys the 
 Mario platforms. Even people like me, I'd still say get it, just not quite with as much encouragement. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo1399
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  OK I was very skeptical when I bought Galaxy at first, I mean I thought the praise from all the 
 critics was just sucking up to another Mario brand game. How could I be more wrong. Galaxy feels 
 flawless when you first pick it up, you get the sensation of Mario 64 all over again, but more 
 evolved and so much better looking. 
  
  Mario has a spin move where he hits his enemies and even can change into different suits. All these 
 suits control perfectly and are unbelievably fun. Not to mention the level design, dont even get 
 me started on how brilliant the level design is it just wants you to keep coming back for more. 
 The bosses in the game are fairly easy and are masterfully designed for execution, which is good.
 
  
  The difficulty is laughably easy in the beginning but ramps up nicely to the point where you might 
 be a little bit frustrated by the end of the game. Also you may feel a little bit overwhelmed with 
 all the galaxies you have to complete and all the stuff there is to do. The game is overflowing 
 with charm and controls perfectly, theirs a toy time world, ice world, fire world, ghost world, 
 typical Mario and it is all a blast and every single different star you get has a unique design 
 to it.
  
  The gameplay is great, black holes befuddle the area and enemies give mario plenty of challenge. 
 There isnt much story to the game but does that really matter when the gameplays this flawless? 
 The soundtrack and audio is also the best I've heard in any Nintendo game... ever. Not to mention 
 this is the best looking game on the Nintendo Wii, seriously you wont find more eloquent looking 
 game on the system. All in all Galaxy features tons of replay value and an enthralling, fun adventure 
 that you should most definitely check out, if you do not own a Wii, this game is worth buying one 
 for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyRice
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Flawless, revolutionary controls and gravity-based gameplay; unbelievable graphics, by 
 any standards; huge, beautiful, fully orchestrated music; a ton of content to the main game, plus 
 a few things switched up for a second time through; the game tailors itself to appeal to hardcore 
 and newcoming gamers with its controls, two ways to 'beat' the game, and two player; a surprisingly 
 deep story; the game would've been awesome even if it wasn't Mario.
  
  The Bad: You might get dizzy; camera's a tad faulty underwater and when flying.
  
  Mario's 
 been around the block a few times. There are a total of eight main franchise games on consoles, 
 but there are also tons and tons of spin-offs to be found one every Nintendo system. You can get 
 upgraded ports on GBA and DS, the Mario and Luigi games, Super Mario Land 1-3, Mario-themed basketball, 
 baseball, golf, tennis, and kart racing, Mario Party, Paper Mario... The list goes on and on.
 
  
  So it's pretty well hyped up when a new, big Mario game comes around. Super Mario 64 was revolutionary 
 in its time and a giant success, but Super Mario Sunshine, the most recent, was considered a bit 
 disappointing. So hardcore gamers may have had some trepidation about the first Wii Mario title.
 
  
  But fear not; this could very well be the greatest Mario game, maybe even the greatest game, ever 
 developed. Few games have been as innovative as this one in recent years, or have had such spectacular 
 presentation as this. It is, hands down, the number one title on Wii.
  
  I'll argue my case though, because I'm sure some of you want to disagree. We'll start with the 
 controls. You can jump on enemies or spin, then kick them, to avoid making combat harder than necessary, 
 and adding Star Bits to the game. These can be thrown at enemies or fed to Lumas, which are more 
 or less baby stars or planets, to open up new levels. Mario has other tricks, though. He can ground 
 pound, triple jump, getting higher and higher as he goes, wall jump, and do a flying long jump.
 
  
  The game doesn't overcomplicate itself, which is sure to be good for newer gamers. Nintendo's working 
 hard to make games that appeal to absolutely everyone, and this one does it. The controls may be 
 simplistic, but Mario's supposed to be that way. And they haven't left you out, either, because 
 some of the later levels are certainly challenging.
  
  These controls are also wrapped around brand new gravity gameplay that'll throw anyone for a loop. 
 You'll find that running off a ledge won't always send you to your demise, but instead, you'll 
 be on the other side of the planet. You'll be going every possible direction before the game is 
 out, and the controls never screw up with it. It may seem that they do, but when related to the 
 camera's position, you'll find that the control stick's directions make sense.
  
  The camera itself was a bit of an issue in Super Mario Sunshine. It was slow to adjust itself and 
 bothersome throughout the course of the game because of it. But not this one; Galaxy's camera can 
 commonly be moved side to side, centered behind you, or go into first-person perspective. But regardless, 
 the camera moves around on its own just fine, generally. There are very miniscule issues though. 
 Underwater and when you're playing as Flying Mario, it can be a little hard to see. But again, 
 it hardly ever affects gameplay.
  
  The reason you'll actually be exploring the cosmos, as you'd expect, is because Bowser kidnapped 
 Peach. This time, though, it's relatively different. He actually lifted the entire Mushroom Castle 
 off its foundations and brought it into space along with him. Peach is stuck with him, naturally, 
 as he goes about trying to make his very own galaxy and rule it from the center of the universe.
 
  
  The fat little plumber that could ends up on an Astral Obvservatory, which is unfortunately out 
 of power because Bowser stole its Grand Stars to power his own new home. Rosalina, a mysterious 
 new face, controls the observatory and watches over the Lumas there (who call her "Mama") , wanting 
 to help you find your "Special One" and restore order to the universe.
  
  You'll be out collecting a total of 120 Power Stars, some of which are Grand Stars that power up 
 a new part of the ship. That's a lot of content, but the game splits the appeal for everybody the 
 best possible way.
  
  You can appear to beat the game after collecting only 60 of the stars, which is when you can first 
 fight Bowser. That way, you won't have to face the more challenging levels and feel the sense of 
 accomplishment you want. That can generally appeal to newer gamers, or anyone else, for that matter, 
 if they choose not to finish the game.
  
  But it's definitely a lot better to stick it out the whole way. Some of the most fun, unique levels 
 come later, and the hardest, the Purple Coin levels (only unlocked when you beat Bowser once) will 
 certainly pose a challenge to you no matter what. None of these levels will turn you away from 
 the game though, but instead give you the sense of 'I can beat this, one more try...' that you 
 want from a game.
  
  Meanwhile, two player allows for someone else to collect Star Bits that you can't focus on getting, 
 being too preoccupied playing as Mario (or Luigi, if you collect all 120 and unlock the second 
 play through) . This is entirely optional, but the additional player can hop in at any time and 
 isn't required to be there every time you play from then on. While they collect the Star Bits, 
 they can shoot them at enemies to stun them and help you out, plus help Mario jump even higher 
 than he can do on his own. This is probably the best way for younger kids to get into Mario, as 
 they, like everyone else, are sure to enjoy the title.
  
  Nintendo even foresaw another issue. If such a large crowd can get into the game, they'll probably 
 all want their own file. So instead of sticking with a small number of files, (three generally 
 being the company's standard, i. e. Zelda) , they doubled up with six. That's not to say it's an 
 unbelievable amount, but it's a good plan on their part.
  
  While the story about Mario saving Peach is straightforward, if unique, Rosalina's past is an interesting 
 new twist. She lost her family a long time ago, but found the Lumas, survived on Star Bits, and 
 set up the observatory to take care of them and continue searching for her own special ones. It's 
 told in a much more in-depth manner in the game, as you unlock more chapters of 'storytime' to 
 keep track of what happened to her. Her history is optional to follow, but it's very interesting 
 and charming, but not sickeningly so.
  
  Nintendo didn't just focus on these aspects, though. The levels do get progressively harder (although 
 it'll throw you a curveball every once in awhile with the hungry Luma levels) , and you have a lot 
 of freedom in deciding where to go next. You're never required to do the hardest levels, though 
 a couple necessary ones pose a little challenge, naturally. The Big N knew what it was doing with 
 this game, meshing every audience that's been reeled into Wii with one game, and doing it with 
 the most famous gaming character ever made.
  
  And the production values are out of this world during all of the above. The graphics are gorgeous, 
 bright, and fun, with absolutely no lag anywhere, and just about zero loading. Being Mario, it's 
 not meant to look realistic or anything, but it doesn't look like a little kid game too much either. 
 These graphics couldn't be complained about on any system, and prove the Wii's power isn't as pathetic 
 as third parties think it is.
  
  The music is fully orchestrated, unlike the most recent blockbuster from first party Nintendo, 
 Twilight Princess (Prime 3 is second party) . Thus, all the effects are loud, grand, and beautiful.
 
  
  The title isn't focused on copying its predecessors, ever, but in areas like the music and certain 
 sidescrolling or flat plain levels, it fondly refers back to them with just the right amount of 
 nostalgia. Once in awhile you'll feel like you're back playing an old Super Mario Bros. or Super 
 Mario World game, and you might get a hint of Super Mario 64. Galaxy doesn't ease up on the difficulty 
 for these parts though, so it ties in nicely. Perhaps the best bit of nostalgia is the remix of 
 the original Super Mario Bros. theme in the Toy Time Galaxy, which is just as much fun to listen 
 to and play along with.
  
  There's probably thirty or forty hours of gameplay here, depending on how good you are at platforming. 
 Many gamers aren't very good at it anymore because platforming seems to be dying out though. On 
 the other hand, if any genre can be revitalized, it'll be with titles like this. Playing through 
 all 120 stars is very memorable, and playing through them as Luigi is a cool addition too. It even 
 adds a bit of humor, since levels where you save Luigi as Mario still have you saving Luigi. In 
 other words, two Luigis will be on the screen at once. And the script changes along with it. In 
 other words, the other Luigi will say, "Hi me!" and such.
  
  Yoshi doesn't make an appearance, except for a planet shaped like his head. There's a group of 
 Toads exploring the planets with you though, as a nice touch. Wario, Waluigi, or baby characters 
 aren't missed, even though they're nowhere to be found.
  
  But after one play as both Mario brothers, you'll very likely want to play this one again and again. 
 I personally doubt it'll ever get old.
  
  So would I recommend it? A resounding yes. If there's one game I would suggest to everyone who 
 has a Wii, no matter what gaming capability they have, it'd be this. I'd put it before Twilight 
 Princess, Prime 3, No More Heroes, Brawl, Resident Evil, Okami... The whole nine yards. This is 
 the type of title that will go down as a timeless classic. It is of the caliber of Tetris, Super 
 Mario Bros., and Ocarina of Time, every step of the way. It is quite possibly the best Mario ever 
 created. It sure is to me. The game is a steal at $50. Run, don't walk, and get this game if you 
 don't have it. Do not miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theronnieboy
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Its an awesome game period. Not just kid's play, you will be playing for many hours. Spinning around 
 planets and dodging some innovative obstacles, while taking in the imaginative and immersive scenery, 
 is enough to make any gamer salivate. The review is dead on. If you have ever even slightly taken 
 to any of mario's past adventures, you will find this game, out-of-this-world! Add intuitive game 
 play in many of the game's puzzles (like for instance, using your remote as a gyro for spinning 
 and balancing on a ball, is pretty cool) You will discover challenges that are beyond your wildest 
 expectations. Despite, the cartoonish graphics, the worlds are filled with astonishing detail and 
 realism, contributing to a superb fantasy like realm. theres just something intiguing about escaping 
 to a distant galaxy. Not one thing had come to mind about any inadequecies. The game is well constructed 
 to the very finish. Easy one of the best games Ive played in along time. Sit back and just allow 
 yourself to take in the dreamy fanatical world filled with some reminicient characters, as well 
 as some new friends ones. The bosses are are indeed very cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niels200683
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  Remember when you first booted mario 64 - or slightly after, when you were done playing with his 
 face to make him look like a donkey?
  
  The sheer amount of freedom felt, to go anywhere - at the pace you chose - feeling like you could 
 jump over anything?
  
  This game gives that feeling back, shortly after the introduction.
  
  As soon as you land in 
 the first actual level, run completely around a planet, up a wall and jump to another planet - 
 it just feels like freedom (despite the fact of you being stuck in a room behind a TV screen) .
 
  
  It is just a game where, if you think it can be done - you can do it.
  
  Mario's actions aren't much more varied than previous titles (only one new move, really - replacing 
 another one.) But the environments work so well with the actions you can perform, it doesn't really 
 matter.
  
  The cast is memorable, although you probably already know most of them. The levels are memorable 
 as well, colorful and rich with things to fool around with, large as well.
  
  For the same reasons, it isn't noticeable that mario's transformations are a lot more limited than 
 previous titles of the series. 
  
  There are some platform challenges. But since the game is just a blast to control and play - you 
 will blast through it in no time.
  
  It doesn't take itself too seriously, but offers some serious gameplay and replay value - replaying 
 the game is something I do just for the hell of it.
  
  In other words, it's an experience - and a certain green heroe is playable at the end of that experience, 
 and controls differently enough to warrant the second playthrough.
  
  A must-have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Justinge3
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is an awesome game that all Wii owners should own! Well here is why...
  
  Story- Mario games were never good with stories (besides spm) , but it's not bad at all!
  
 
  Graphics- The Best graphics on the Wii hands down! In my opinion, it rivals other consoles graphics!
 
  
  Sound- Beautiful music that I wouldn't mind listning to for the rest of my life! You Will love 
 this great games music!
  
  Playability- The controls are perfect! Going through levels has never been this fun! If you want 
 Perfect controls, then here they are! Please don't miss out on this game! It is the best game on 
 the Wii! The galaxies in this game are very creative and extremely fun to play through! Be sure 
 to pick this game up soon, if you haven't! It is the best game on the Wii! You can't miss out on 
 this game! Please, if you want perfection, then Super Mario Galaxy is Perfect for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowSonic20
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2008 10:28 pm PT
Review:  It seems the state of the Mario franchise has always been inexorably linked to the fate (and design) 
 of Nintendo's consoles, each new platform launching with a Mario game to symbolize its design paradigm. 
 This got kind of hazy when the GameCube didn't launch with a Mario game (the closest thing being 
 Luigi's Mansion) . Perhaps the state of the later-released Super Mario Sunshine, being the  
 game it was, was symbolic of the GameCube' as a console. Ever since Nintendo launched the Wii a 
 year ago, probably the closest thing to that perfect poster child game it's had has been Wii Sports 
 with the rest of game development on the system being largely mediocre.
  
  In a perfect world, Super Mario Galaxy would have launched right along side the Wii. It is that 
 "perfect" game that symbolizes exactly the kind of game design Nintendo built the Wii for.
  
  First off, let's get one thing out of the way: it's probably close to impossible for anything 
 to stand up to the initial sense of amazement many of us got the first time we laid eyes on Super 
 Mario 64 in 1996. For a lot of us that game set serious landmarks that still influence the way 
 games are made today over a decade later. The expectation that the next "big" Mario game should 
 do the same or even anything close is part of what killed Sunshine for many gamers and is not what 
 should be expected of Galaxy. What should be expected of Mario platformers directly following 64 
 is an evolution and further polishing of that game's design, which is exactly what Galaxy delivers 
 on. The game takes everything about Mario games (and 3D platforming in general) , turns it on its 
 ear, and polishes it to an incredible degree.
  
  The basic premise is that the princess has been kidnapped (again) , but this time Mario must travel 
 through space in order to rescue her, traveling across many worlds to collect 120 power stars just 
 as he did in his previous 3D adventures.
  
  What flips the script on Mario in this game to begin with is that each level or "galaxy" in it 
 is made up of many small planets or "planetoids," each of which has its own gravity thus allowing 
 Mario to travel on all sides of them. These planetoids come in just about any shape or size, thus 
 allowing for some insane level design, which Nintendo's Tokyo studio (responsible for Donkey Kong 
 Jungle Beat, a GameCube platformer I seriously suggest you also check out) has taken to some amazing 
 lengths.
  
  Imagine for instance being on a planet so small that you could circumnavigate it in one jump, running 
 around all sides of a planet shaped like a giant question mark, swimming in a sphere of water, 
 running around in a classic 2D level with gravity shifting from the floor to the ceiling and walls, 
 or walking into a hole and instantly ending up on the other side of a planet which contains a whole 
 new area.
  
  I'm not gonna even try to further describe the range of ideas or the variety of level design that's 
 employed in Galaxy. I'll just say that while playing through it I never got bored because the game 
 managed to stay continually fresh while sticking to a relatively simple and constant set of rules. 
 I was also stunned at the number of levels that was available to me at almost anytime while playing.
 
  
  Although Mario Galaxy contains the same number of stars that 64 and Sunshine did, virtually all 
 of them are gained through actual objectives. At the time of writing this review I've gotten around 
 70 stars and have only encountered one that required me to collect more than five of anything. 
 This allows for a lot more levels or "galaxies" to be in the game, many of which kept surprising 
 me in terms of how many stars each one actually contained. Mario Galaxy's variety in level design 
 also extends into its difficulty which scales excellently, attaining a pleasant balance between 
 accessibility and challenge.
  
  In Mario Galaxy, only 60 stars are really needed to reach the final boss and see the credits roll, 
 and even the most casual players will probably be able to reach that goal with some effort, but 
 the minute players veer off and start exploring the game's secrets, the difficulty immediately 
 cranks up to a whole other level. Thought getting that last star was a little easy? Now try doing 
 it in less than five minutes or with enemies twice as fast as before. Oh extra lives are plentiful 
 in Galaxy, but you'll have to work for them.
  
  All of this: the radical new style of platforming, how polished it feels, how much there is to 
 do, and how it manages to be very challenging but not frustrating makes Mario Galaxy one of those 
 few games that's very easy to play for hours on end.
  
  Strangely though, Galaxy actually doesn't use Wii Remote functionality all that much. Two very 
 integral (but also very small) features in the game use the pointer and motion sensor, and there 
 are also several mini-game like parts that are pretty smartly implemented, but Galaxy doesn't try 
 to shoehorn in a lot of unnecessary functions just for the sake of validating the Wii Remote. Something 
 that does begin to validate the Wii hardware in Galaxy though is its visuals.
  
  Mario Galaxy is unquestionably the best-looking game on the Nintendo Wii. Lighting, the way characters 
 animate, and a general crispness of the environments all help place Galaxy visually speaking, firmly 
 a step above anything seen on GameCube or Wii thus far. Even though I hate making this comparison, 
 I'd even go as far as to say that at some points Galaxy exhibits that kind of visual polish that 
 we've begun to associate with next gen gaming. The rest of Galaxy's presentation comes together 
 to round it out as generally just a really charming experience.
  
  When I heard the music in Mario Galaxy was going to be mostly orchestrated, I was worried the digital-sounding 
 charm that is often associated with Mario in gaming culture would be lost, but hearing orchestral 
 odes to classic themes from Super Mario Bros. 3 and Super Mario World set those worries aside. 
 In addition to the game's characters, what' also helps give Mario Galaxy a sort of fairy-tale-like 
 sensibility is its storyline. First of all, if you want nothing to do with the storyline of a Mario 
 game, you can totally and completely ignore Galaxy's entire back-story and boil it down to "Bowser 
 kidnaps princess, takes her through space, Mario travels through space in pursuit." Those who do 
 choose to investigate Galaxy's back-story however will actually find one that can be quite heartwarming 
 and is pleasantly told.
  
  Bottom Line
  
  Super Mario Galaxy brings with it a pure, innocent kind of fun that's become increasingly rare 
 in games these days. As soon as you jump right in it gets fun and stays fun throughout, offering 
 fresh level design and a healthy amount of gameplay content. The only actual problems that might 
 exist in this game are minute issues that only the most hardcore Mario players would nitpick about 
 concerning how Mario himself controls. Mario Galaxy is without a doubt the best game on the Wii 
 yet and definitely a top contender for game of 2007, even with the amazing amount of competition 
 for that status that exists this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srbbnd
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy (SMG) is the best Mario yet. As an aging gamer who was become enamored with graphics 
 and anything that shocks, SMG is a breath of fresh air. Shigeru Miyamoto (or whoever actually designed 
 and created the levels) is a genius. Every level is breathtaking and has a different theme. While 
 playing each different galaxy flying from planet to planet it feels like you are in a dream. A 
 minor flaw that accompanies any 3-D game is the camera angles and SMG is no exception. There are 
 many parts of the game where this is done on purpose to increase the difficulty of the game, but 
 I became frustrated trying to change the direction of the joystic to go the appropriate direction 
 that the camera angle was automatically going towards.
  
  SMG is a little on the easy side mainly because of the ability to get extra lives so easily. Boss 
 battles are grand, however after you defeat a boss you don't get that satisfied feeling that you 
 should. The reason for this is that it's just a little to easy to get those last couple of hits. 
 
  
  The last flaw of SMG is the multiplayer set-up. Two-player mode is almost pointless and the second 
 player will become bored out of his mind trying to shoot star bites at enemies that don't affect 
 Mario. I was hoping that you would be able to play Luigi/Mario in multiplayer mode and battle to 
 play the level like the old school MarioThey did add Luigi into the game and he becomes a playable 
 character in single player mode if you complete the ENTIRE game. 
  
  In conclusion it has been a while since I was excited to play a beautifully designed game that 
 any audience can enjoy. SMG has a great replay value after you beat the game especially, because 
 of the ability to unlock Luigi. With only three flaws that I found camera angles, easy difficulty 
 and crappy multiplayer mode, SMG is a nearly perfect one player game. For any of you thinking about 
 getting a Wii SMG is a good reason to do so.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy has everything in place and it's an obvious must-buy for anyone who owns a Wii.
 
  
  Every Mario game has a same story with some nuances here and there. This rule is also true in Galaxy. 
 Mario is invited to centennial Star Festival by Princess Peach, but the festival is interrupted 
 by Bowser. Old nemesis captures Peach along with her entire castle and vanishes into outer space. 
 Mario is then introduced to watcher of stars, Rosalina, and her companion stars called Lumas. Rosalina 
 has an observatory which can travel to rescue Princess Peach, but Mario needs to collect enough 
 Power Stars (at least 60) all over the universe in order to get this observatory / space station 
 working again. 
  
  Graphics are probably the best what Wii has to offer. Everything looks fabulous and colorful. Almost 
 all characters and enemies you meet are cute and funny looking, which is obviously a conscious 
 design choice and in my opinion a great one. There are some short loading times here and there, 
 but they are short and the frame rate always stays smooth and solid.
  
  Music is fully orchestrated this time and it's a high time for Nintendo to do this. Tunes are a 
 mixture of classic pieces from the past and some new songs as well. Sound effects are pretty much 
 recycled from previous Mario games, but at least they're familiar to listen. There's also some 
 real voice acting, but most of the story is still told through text.
  
  Wii controls work perfectly, because motion sensors are used in a moderate way. Mario's movement 
 is controlled with a thumbstick and Wii Remote is used to catch Star Bits, balance on a ball, throw 
 a Koopa shell and so on. Camera works much better than it did in GameCube's Super Mario SunShine, 
 because the area you play in is usually much more open. You'll rarely encounter situations where 
 you die because of a bad camera angle. In short I can't stress enough that playing Super Mario 
 Galaxy is just fun all the way through and it makes you forget in less than 15 minutes that the 
 story is again very boring and thin.
  
  What makes Galaxy unique and one of the best Mario games ever made is the feature of small planets 
 and their own gravity. Every level consists of a number of planets or other platforms, all of which 
 have their own gravitational properties. Almost all levels are fun and rewarding to just explore 
 through: it's just that good.
  
  Mario has a few transformations just like he did in Super Mario Bros. 3. They are used very seldom, 
 but Bee, Ice, Boo, Fire Mario etc. are fun additions to overall gameplay. Unfortunately Spring 
 Mario is not that good, because it's a little too hard to control.
  
  As I said earlier, the goal is to collect enough Power Stars all around the universe in order to 
 make Rosalina's observatory functional again. It takes 60 stars to do this, but Mario can continue 
 and search all 120 Power Stars and around half of those 120 are hidden. This means that completing 
 Super Mario Galaxy can take anywhere from 15 to 20 hours to even 40 hours of gameplay depending 
 on your dedication.
  
  Game asks you to save every time you've collected a Power Star and when you decide to end your 
 gaming session you are asked to save as well. For some reason you'll always start with 4 lives 
 no matter how many you had when the game ended in your previous session. On the other hand collected 
 coins and Star Bits stay with you, so it's advisable to focus on collecting them instead of extra 
 lives.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy has only few flaws, one of which is the boss fights. They are epic and big, 
 but at some point they start to feel repetitive. Luckily it doesn't matter much, because confrontations 
 between Mario and Bowser are always fun.
  
  Game alsoo has one useless feature: co-op, where second player takes control of another Wii Remote 
 and concentrates on collecting start bits. That's it: co-op is simply a useless addition to an 
 already magnificent game. Of course there's no real multiplayer component, but who needs it anyway 
 in a Mario game like this.
  
  Games can still be innovative and Super Mario Galaxy is the latest proof of this. Anyone with a 
 Wii should not be without it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZookGuy
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  I must give my applauds to Nintendo for making such an excellent game which makes classic gaming 
 methods feel fresh again. It maintains the series originality and innovation yet never feels out 
 of place with all the other games in the series. It also takes the Wii's graphical capabilities 
 to full extent creating physics one would never think possible in a game. Mario can climb perfect 
 spheres without the system glitching once. I also give compliments to the story department for 
 adding new factors for the old-as-the-hills story Rosalina is a new charectar the series needs. 
 The Wii motion capture controls are as smooth as silk and never once got messed up. I still have 
 yet to find better graphics for Wii games. This is the best Mario game to date. This game is a 
 must have for any Wii owner. A stature all games should be compared to in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mario5455
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  The ultimate Nintendo hero is taking the ultimate step ... out into space. Join Mario as he ushers 
 in a new era of video games, defying gravity across all the planets in the galaxy. When some creature 
 escapes into space with Princess Peach, Mario gives chase, exploring bizarre planets all across 
 the galaxy. Mario, Peach and enemies new and old are here. Players run, jump and battle enemies 
 as they explore all the planets in the galaxy. Since this game makes full use of all the features 
 of the Wii Remote, players have to do all kinds of things to succeed: pressing buttons, swinging 
 the Wii Remote and the Nunchuk, and even pointing at and dragging things with the pointer. Since 
 he's in space, Mario can perform mind-bending jumps unlike anything he's done before. He'll also 
 have a wealth of new moves that are all based around tilting, pointing and shaking the Wii Remote. 
 Shake, tilt and point! Mario takes advantage of all the unique aspects of the Wii Remote and Nunchuk 
 controller, unleashing new moves as players shake the controller and even point at and drag items 
 with the pointer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer131
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: 10
  GRAPHICS: 10
  SOUND: 9
  VALUE: 10
  TILT: 10
  
  ROUGH SCORE: 9.8
  FINAL SCORE: 10.0
  
  - - - - - - - - - - - 
  
  The Good:
  - Stunning graphics
  - Incredible 
 level design
  - Creative (and well-utilized) new power-ups
  - The return of old power-ups
  - Challenging gameplay
  
  The Bad:
  - Occasional awkward 
 camera angles
  
  - - - - - - - - - - -
  
  I'm going to keep this short and sweet.
  The game looks amazing, it plays near flawlessly, and the music immerses you into wherever you 
 happen to be. The diversity of the levels keeps you interested and entertained. As with every other 
 Mario platformer that has come before it, replay potential is sky high and also, the game is highly 
 polished and recommended. Without a doubt, this is one of the few games that you absolutely cannot 
 afford to pass up if you own a Wii. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nillod
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2009 7:14 am PT
Review:  Lets see, Mario Galaxy in my opinion is another masterpiece in the Mario series. It may not be 
 as breathtaking as Mario 64 was when it was released, but Nintendo bared no expense when putting 
 this game together. It is fairly simple and a little easy but it is such a blast to play through 
 it that it has no other real shortcomings unless you want to include the normal Mario plot with 
 Bowser kidnapping Peach. The controls work great as well and despite common opinion, I like the 
 return of the different suits. I just wish that the fire Mario suit lasted until you got hit like 
 in the older games. The setting and background go well with the series because it gives the game 
 that mystical and free feeling that Mario 64 gave when it was released. The game just has that 
 magic that Nintendo has been known for whenever they decide to give the effort. It's also kind 
 of cool that players get to use Luigi again even if the he can't be used until the game is finished. 
 I highly recommended anyone who has $50 even if they don't have a Wii, to get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kagihime
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  Let me tell you right off the bat, that this is a great game. It's worth going in your car, driving 
 to the game store, and buying it. One thing that just surprised me all around were how the graphics 
 looked. Absolutely spectacular. The sound is great, with out a doubt. The storyline, play, and 
 everything else is just great. It does get harder through, so if you have trouble with games sometimes 
 like Mario, be sure to pull out that walk through! Anyway you get to move around using Mario like 
 usual, but your in space! You have to rescue Princess Peach from browser. You get sent off in space 
 and you meet the stars and the other princess (forgot her name) she asks you to find other stars 
 in different levels to help her. I won't tell the rest but just know that this game is a hit. I 
 hope it's one for you, too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostofluigi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  I got this game for christmas and I never regret it one bit. Super Mario Galaxy was so addicting. 
 At times, though, I was so mad at the game that I would keep whacking the Wiimote against the carpet. But 
 other then the frustration, there is nothing else I could coomplain about. The graphics were AMAZING! 
 The levels were so cool looking. I was a bit dissapointed with the storyline because it was the 
 same old thing. Bowser steals peach. You go save Peach. Happy Ending! To tell you the truth, I 
 was expecting something better in the story. The comets that appear on the galaxies were a great 
 addition to the game. The galaxies themeselves were cool. My favorite was the toytime galaxy. Super 
 Mario Galaxy was a great game. It never ceased to amaze me with it's colorful galaxies, and amazing 
 graphics. Thank you nintendo for such an amazing, wonderful game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twili
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2008 12:52 am PT
Review:  You may have already guessed that I like this game. So much in fact that i gave it a 10/10 score 
 AND called it better than the 64 version. I have spent close to 70 hours playing this game (and 
 thats what you are gonna have to spend if you want to get all 121 stars twice as well) and i have 
 to say it was time well spent! If you have a Wii; don't be stupid: buy this game! I personally 
 think it's the best game of the 21: st century. 
  
  Gameplay: 10/10 Doesn't get any better than Mario right?
  
  Presentation: 9/10 While the music 
 is as addictive as ever, and the sounds are the classic Mario noises we all love, this is a Wii 
 game and it's graphics can't compare to the other consoles games.
  
  Re-playability: After you got the first set of stars with Mario you will be able to play as a certain 
 brother clad in green. While harder it is certainly more enjoyable completing it as both. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peppita001
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario galaxy is one of the games I thought would be very fun and exciting. When I first started 
 playing, I had fun but the more I played, the more I got bored and a bit angry on some parts of 
 the game. It is a great game, but I didn't like some of the galaxies because they were hard. I 
 don't remember what it's called, but the hardest thing to do was to control the ball with the star 
 in it and roll around the course. That wasted all my life. I had to start over and over and over. 
 My favourite part was doing a swim race with the penguins. That was really fun. I think that galaxy 
 was in the kitchen. I like to fly with Mario also but it was kind of hard collecting all the purple 
 rings in the gate but it was still fun. I love the melody. I also have Mario kart so sinces I have 
 a Super Mario galaxy saved data and played 50 races in Mario kart, I got rosalina. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 14, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Well, first off, I've never really been a big fan of the Mario games. I know that most people love 
 this game, and that's alright with me, but it just wasn't for me. You play as Mario, in search 
 for the lost princess. You'll travel through different galaxies and so on. The audio doesn't stand 
 out that well, and the visuals don't look all that great. Some textures look bland, even with the 
 color effects. The level designs sometimes get really annoying. Pretty much you have to collect 
 these different stars, and if you collect all of them throughout the levels, you beat the game. 
 There are boss fights, too, and they can be a little more challenging. Since I'm not a Mario fan, 
 I didn't enjoy this game that much. I know lot's of people did, but this game just wasn't for me. 
 If you're a fan of Mario, you'll enjoy this game a lot. However, if you aren't, then don't waste 
 your time with this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: louisfoxton
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2008 11:39 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is one of the most amazing games I have seen in ages. The storyline as brilliant 
 as ever and the graphics for a Wii game are pretty cool. A new feature allowing Mario to defeat 
 enemy's while defying gravity all in 3D. The controls and movement are not too hard to master so 
 it makes it easier for the younger gamers to play. Also the characters are very graphical and detailed 
 and there movement is natural so some good work by Nintendo. Plus this unique game allows you to 
 play on you own or in an unusual way with a friend as they only have a pointer and they press buttons 
 at a certain time to give you the controller of Mario advantages. Overall this brilliant family 
 game is packed together with awesome graphics and amazing game play movements to make a game that 
 will go down as a classic Mario game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jovis14
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is one of the most amazing games I have seen in ages. The storyline as brilliant 
 as ever and the graphics for a Wii game are pretty cool. A new feature allowing Mario to defeat 
 enemy's while defying gravity all in 3D. The controls and movement are not too hard to master so 
 it makes it easier for the younger gamers to play. Also the characters are very graphical and detailed 
 and there movement is natural so some good work by Nintendo. Plus this unique game allows you to 
 play on you own or in an unusual way with a friend as they only have a pointer and they press buttons 
 at a certain time to give you the controller of Mario advantages. Overall this brilliant family 
 game is packed together with awesome graphics and amazing game play movements to make a game that 
 will go down as a classic Mario game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dog_Dude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 6:11 am PT
Review:  But it doesn't have as much addicting quality as paper mario or super smash bros. brawl. I'm really 
 not sure why I certainly wish I knew. Mabye it's the scenery changes in brawl or the leveling-up 
 in Paper mario. On the other hand the graphics are outstanding for a mario game and the music and 
 sound is great to. It has great gameplay as well. The gravity and things like stars the fly you 
 across the galaxy is just amazing. One of my favorite parts about it is that you can play 2player 
 - in story mode. Don't you hate it when your working on a game and your friend comes over and wants 
 to play. Now thats all cool but you have to stop the story mode and switch to mini-games or something. 
 This is certainly not the case. Its basically the perfect game with a little less adictiveness.
 
  
  
  Worth it?: YESSS!!!!!
  
  Cost: $50 What its really worth: S75 (opinion) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: booo95
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 13, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  So, Super Mario Galaxy, the sequel to Super Mario 64 (Because Super Mario Sunshine didn't exist 
 apparently) . I picked this up for Christmas and I must say, it doesn't live up to what SM64 was.
 
  
  So let's talk graphics, to all of you saying Wii games don't have good graphics, this proved you 
 wrong. The game just looks so lovely and had such great textures. It's like you are looking at 
 real bee fur (Because in space bees have fur) as it shows each little strand of hair. The textures 
 really just make the game's graphics so beautiful.
  
  The music is great. You get stuff that is new and adds to the already epic feeling of being in 
 space to remixes of classic tunes like the SM64 Bowser stage music and the SMB3 overworld theme.
 
  
  The gameplay is where it starts to get a bit meh. One thing is that it uses the Wii remote waggle 
 to do a basic little spin attack (Pretty much the equivalent to the SM64 punch only it is all around 
 you) . This can get annoying as sometimes it likes to not respond and let you get hit by whatever 
 may be hitting you at the moment. May not sound too bad but imagine having only three hits to live 
 off of. This makes the game excessively annoying at times and will really turn you off after you 
 get hit by the random garbage balls floating around twisters in the Dusty Dune Galaxy, or when 
 you need to use the spin to get a little boost of a jump and you just end up falling to your death.
 
  
  Another thing is the replacement of the 8 red coin missions with the 100 purple coin missions. 
 Nearly every single one of these are about as hard as a dude's erection after taking Viagra and 
 covering it in glue. Not only do you have to worry about getting all 100 coins spread about with 
 only three hit points and the slight chance of the remote waggle not registering but you also have 
 to worry about getting to the star. The Toy Time Galaxy is the prime example of this extra worry 
 as you have to hop across disappearing platforms and if you just so happen to go around every platform 
 that is around where the star will appear then you are most likely screwed.
  
  So overall this game is a bit of annoyance and I wouldn't claim it as a sequel to SM64 anymore 
 than I would SMS but it is still worth a play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guntrix50
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Fully responsive controls make the gameplay nice and smooth. With greatly mapped out 
 motion controls, the gameplay is impressive and fun to play. The only thing that i do NOT like 
 about the gameplay is that once you spin attack an enemy such as a goomba, you must chase them 
 and touch them again to defeat them, which is a bit annoying.
  
  Graphics: This game will have some of the best graphics you will ever see on the Wii. From graphics 
 to lighting, this game is definitely pleasing to the eyes.
  
  Story: A fine story, but don't expect much of a huge ending you see in games like No More Heroes. 
 Overall, the story is not that great, but not that bad either.
  
  Replay Value: To fight Bowser, you'll need to collect 60 stars. Surprisingly, there are more than 
 120 stars, which makes excellent replay value.
  
  Overall, this game has great controls as well as great graphics. If you don't have this game, this 
 should be #1 on your wishlist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mp3_Beta
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  This is the best Mario game up to date. Every thing is perfect or close to perfect in this game!
 
  
  CONTROLS: smooth, very good. Spin attack is feels good nothing wrong with it. you use the analog 
 stick to move around, press A to jump i thing and use the remote to move around the little star 
 thingie on the screen to collect star pieces which you can buy planets with
  STORY: the story has a been there done that feel. princess peach gets kidnapped by Bowser blah 
 blah blah. If your interested in the story where have you been the past generations in gaming. 
 the story is the only reason i gave it a 9.5.
  DESIGN: The design is out of this world. Literally, your always doing something different. The way 
 the gravity from each planet drags you when you jump is awesome. There is so many different types 
 of platforming in this game. 2d, 2d upside down, right side up. and there are ALOT up Mario upgrades.
 
  PRESENTATION: This game pushes the game to the limit!!!! Mario looks better than ever!
  
  IF YOU DONT HAVE THIS GAME F***ING BUY IT  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coolguy58888
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  its really good but it can be hard at times without a guide and its really so you have a lot to 
 do. but overall its a good game but can get boring after a a long time. So if you don't have anything 
 to do this is a good game to pick up and play. So if your a Mario or platform game fan this a game 
 for you. I really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really like this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tylacwayzay
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 11, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - 9: Original Mario gameplay. What else can I say? Intense platforming with little power 
 ups that increase the expansive feel it already portrays. It is amazing how such simple gameplay 
 can feel so limitless, but considering Nintendo does that alot, I shouldn't be surprised. Also, 
 the new gravity system takes mario and technically twists it and mends it to the point of making 
 something new. No mario game has ever done something so drastic as that and actually got away with 
 it. Only problem is that sometimes jumping and running can feel slippery.
  
  Graphics - 10: One of the most colorful, vibrant, shiny games on the Wii yet! The colros are perfectly 
 chosen and are so cool looking it could injure your eyes! The models are wonderfully made and have 
 some great animations, and the textures take the Wii's hardware to the max with reflective bumb 
 mapping (google it if you don't know) . The only problem I noticed is that it lacks dynamic lighting 
 that the other big Wii titles have such as legend of zelda: TP and Metroid: Corruption. But you 
 will forget this problem soon enough.
  
  Sound - 8: It has very typical mario sound effects and voices. The typical "boing" of a spring 
 and the too much heard "woohoo!!!" of mario as he perfroms a long jump. But the thing that stands 
 out in this game is the music. Most of the songs are orchestrated to near perfection! Though, the 
 other songs aren't orchestrated, but they are still just as amazing because they are old mario 
 tunes amped up to a new generation. 
  
  Value - 8: At most the game's primary story will take a solid 20 hours to beat. But, if you aim 
 to collect all the stars and plan on doing the same once you unlock luigi (which gives the game 
 more challenge) It will take you alot of time and patience, but you will constantly be asking yourself 
 "is it worth it?" and most of the time the answer is no. But, if you collect all the stars with 
 luigi, you will get a special prize that may just be worth it afterall.
  
  Tilt - 9: Again, original (yet typical) mario stuff going on. Peach is captured and mario has to 
 save her. Sometimes I really wish the princess would just find a different place to live. anyways, 
 they did add some new twists to make the stroy more approachable, but it remains typical mario 
 stuff.
  
  Side notes: personally, I would rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duvtljnt
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 11, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  I'll keep it brief, as the game has had its praises sung enough. 
  
  Use of the Wiimote was innovative and non-gimmicky. Concepts of gravity and spacial relations were 
 used to create interesting puzzles that made you think, but also provided a good platforming experience.
 
  
  The story was possibly the worst I have ever seen in a game, but luckily they didn't force a lot 
 of it on you. 
  
  Graphics, for the Wii, were top notch, and the environments were a joy to explore. 
  
  Hidden 
 stars and bonus comets like time trials, and the 'beat the boss with one health wedge' added some 
 extra difficulty in a game that was geared towards a more casual gamer.
  
  Overall, it was a good play, but offers not much replay value. The 'multiplayer' aspect was really 
 nothing of interest unless you were playing with your two-year-old or grandmother. 
  
  Glad I played it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffmotorsports51
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  I got this game for Christmas last year, and when I first played it, I really like it! This is 
 definetely a great piece of art. The graphics are best I have seen on the Wii. The music rocks. 
 The levels are well thought out. Last, the gameplay if fun. There are a few flaws though with this 
 game. The first flaw in my mind, is that sometimes the game miscalculates the character's movement. 
 The second flaw in my mind, is that the Bowser stages are too short. The third flaw that I will 
 mention in my mind, is that some of the dialog, and events are too childish. For example, the baby 
 galaxies crying like babies. I find that I little weird. The best thing about this game are the 
 graphics. The graphics are awesome, and definetely worthy of the Wii. The levels look realistic. 
 The gameplay is fun. Once you start playing, your brain will tell you not to stop. It's addicting, 
 and the lengthy story will keep you hooked. The music is awesome! My favorite song though is the 
 Bowser level music from Super Mario 64. It's re-mixed. I don't get why they did not play this music 
 during the Final Bowser Stage. The levels are definetely a true masterpiece. They are well thought 
 out, and will capture your imagination. Overall, great Mario game, awesome music, brilliant level 
 design, lots of stars to collect (121 in all) , addicting gameplay, best graphics for a Wii game. 
 If you own a Wii, BUY THIS GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snatte
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  there are a lot of things that i would like to say about Mario Galaxy... but somehow it feels like 
 everything has already been said, by someone, somewhere. But nonetheless, i will at least tell 
 you me personal thoughts of this game. Lets just start with a quick introduction, first of all: 
 this game is the game with the best graphics on the Wii... no joke. There are a lot of good looking 
 wii games Graphic-wise, but mario galaxy is one step ahead of them all. 
  
  Gameplay: if you've played Super Mario 64, good, awesome actually, now you know pretty much how 
 to play this game... but not quite, since there are alot of additions since then, additions you 
 should (at least i did) love.
  But basically, there aren't a whole lot to say about this, but the game plays perfectly, and the 
 controls work great, but some things where a bit annoying... like, using the motion remote to do 
 pretty much all attacks and stuff, and my arm ot pretty darn tired sometimes... maybe i just need 
 to work out.
  Note To Self: buy Wii Fit.
  Score: 9.5/10
  
  Graphics: pure awesomness mixed with the sweet taste of perfection... that's what the graphics 
 are like in this game, especially if you play it on a HD 480p tv. Nuttin more to say, best graphics 
 on Wii... The End.
  Score: 10/10
  
  Story: Well, what do you know, Peach has gotten herself kidnapped AGAIN  . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaloHunter460
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is the definite game to get for the Wii. It's a game thats good for all ages, so anyone 
 can enjoy it. I really enjoyed this game. This is how the story goes, you are Mario and you're 
 invited to this Fireworks thing at the Mushroom Kingdom at Peach's castle. And of course Bowser 
 can't leave his hands off of her so he kidnaps her again. The story like in most Mario games is 
 the weakest point of the game, but you easily can ignore the plot to this game. The graphics of 
 the game in my opinion are flawless. The game looks phenomenal. It is just beautiful to look at 
 the screen because the graphics are amazing. It is the best looking game on the Wii yet. The gameplay 
 to me I also think is flawless. You shake the Wii remote to do Mario's Spin Attack. Press A to 
 jump. The game isn't to easy like Purple coin challenges are a pain in the butt. It will at least 
 take you a good 30 hours to collect every single star so it doesn't take that long to complete. 
 Overall, I have to say this is the best game on the Wii so far, it will take a really good game 
 to surpass this game. The game is perfect for all ages and every Wii owner must own this game
 
  Real Score:9.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dfghftyfytftyfy
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 4, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Apparently I'm one of the few people who like super mario 64 and super mario sunshine more than 
 super mario galaxy. I don't know maybe its just the nostalgia maybe if I played super mario galaxy 
 when I was younger I would have enjoyed it more, well anyways onto the review. Here's what I liked 
 about the game, the graphics are probably the best on the wii, the music is terrific and almost 
 all of it is orchestrated, the boss fights were pretty cool, and most of the new power-ups were 
 also pretty cool. Here's what I disliked about the game, its way too easy I rarely ever died or 
 got hit by an enemy, because of the easiness I got through the levels very quickly which took away 
 a lot of their memorability. Okay I have one last criticism the levels were linear, if you don't 
 know what i'll explain, in super mario 64 and in sunshine you're planted in the level and you have 
 to explore the area to find the stars, in super mario galaxy you just follow a path to the star, 
 this really made the game less fun for me. In conclusion its a great game, I can see why its so 
 critically acclaimed, it just didn't meet my expectations. Thank you for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brucemak
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  It's about time for another sweet mario. I had the game beat within a week of buying the game. 
 I couldn't put it down. The same awesome gameplay from mario 64 plus a little more. The addition 
 of new characters and an in depth back story created an awesome gaming atmosphere. Mario wasn't 
 just saving Peach this time.
  
  The only downside to the game was the fact that it reminded me so much Mario 64 after I beat Mario 
 Galaxy I forgot about it and went back to my 64. For some reason I couldn't get into this mario 
 as much as the others. It's still an awesome game, I was upset with no Yoshi levels again, oh well. 
 I want the sweet Yoshi from SMW back. The two player wii-mote was an alright idea that didn't satisfy 
 the 2nd player and made Mario's player angry. A nice old skool two player addition would've been 
 nice.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProOtter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  A fantastic and creative game that take you by surprise. The biggest challenge of this game is 
 how to describe the gameplay and I keep coming back to, creative. You essentially have an enormous 
 3D world that Mario is a part of and learning to utilize the unique Wii controls to win is part 
 of the challenge. This is Mario game true to it's roots as you hove to move forward and avoid obstacles; 
 however, it feels a bit more like a puzzle game. You will be doing a lot of balancing and determining 
 the right time to "launch" off of an object to you don't get sucked into a black hole. As you beat 
 each world you collect "stars". It is a great game to spend 20 minutes with or an entire day - 
 the choice is yours. This game showcases the depth and the unique gameplay of the Wii. Some games 
 impress you with graphics and music, as most Wii games do - this one is simply special. A must 
 own for all Wii owners - I mean, it is a Mario game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brightshadow525
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2008 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is definitely the best Mario game I've played. It amazed me from the first time 
 I started playing. To start off, the graphics are simply gorgeous. No Wii game has looked this 
 spectacular before. Everything looks so appropriate for the outer space theme. Nothing looks bad 
 in this game, and I mean it. It is just a wonder to look at. 
  
  Getting down to game play, this game controls wonderfully, especially for the the type of movement 
 in this game. This game is based on little planets scattered across the map. You are always pulled 
 to the center of the planet which makes it seems like your walking upside down when you walk "off 
 the edge" of a planet. You can't really fall off the planet. Don't think it makes the game overly 
 easy though, you'll find plenty of challenge in this game. The camera never gets in the way and 
 it is pretty much solid, even for a game as unique as this. Nothing technical gets in the way of 
 you enjoying your Mario game.
  
  The game is just so vast, and it has so many levels to play. Only 60 stars are necessary to go 
 and fight Bowser, which makes beating the game possible for people who aren't the best at video 
 games, however, if you're a hardcore gamer like me, you'll go and hunt down every last one of the 
 full 120 stars. It's very satisfying and fun. You won't be disappointed. 
  
  The optional co-op mode is nothing to get too excited about. However, it's not meant to be a big 
 feature in the game. It's just an added bonus, and it's not too bad for a bonus. It helps so when 
 other watch you play, they don't just have to sit there, they can actually help out a little. Just 
 make sure your partner won't try to get you killed while you're playing.
  
  This game is amazing, it may not sound like it from what I've said, but you would have to play 
 and experience it to see what it's all about. It's truly amazing how this game came together and 
 how good it all is. A must have for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  In this game Mario geos from the Mushroom Kingdom into space. Mario trys to save Peach because 
 Bowser took her away from her castle. Mario also helps this one group of stars with this one girl 
 named Rosalina. So Mario gets stars and fills up the darkness of the base with the Grand Stars. 
 To get the Grand Stars you must beat Bowser or Bowser Jr. Really the whole game is about getting 
 stars and unlocking Galaxys. The Final battle is against Bowser and after you defeat him and get 
 150 stars you unlock Luigi. Then after you get all the stars with Luigi the game is officially 
 over. The Good of this game is that the graphics are really good. The bad is nothing the game is 
 perfect. This is why I rate this game 10 outta 10. But if they make a sequal which they will the 
 game will be longer then this one the game is perfect and that is why this game is runner up for 
 game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manwhowins
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  With some of the hype and propaganda associated with this game's release (comemorative coins?) , 
 one would think that it would be hard not to dissapoint like Mario Sunshine before it. The bar 
 was set so high for both Mario and all platformers by the revolutionary Mario 64, even a decent 
 platformer like Sunshine was considered a flop. That being said, with the current bar for gaming 
 set so high, Nintendo finally outdid itself with a true masterpiece in SM Galaxy. 
  
  When playing the game, I noticed a very similar feel between this and SM 64 in terms of controls. 
 The jumping animations are nearly identical to the earlier game, which I find both convenient and 
 nostalgic. Although the game has abandoned the punch-punch-kick attack scheme, the spin attack 
 works as a fine replacement. The motion controls also work fine; its very unforced unlike some 
 other games (Monkeyball, cough, cough) The highly annoying camera in the old game has also been 
 disposed of and replaced with a convenient fixed camera. Also, the new modes are more diverse, 
 easier to control, and frankly much more fun than wing cap Mario. The galaxy aspect of it makes 
 it much cooler to travel. I've even had fun just playing around with the awesome gravity physics. 
 
  
  Another major strength of Galaxy's is the best visual experience for Wii yet. Not only are the 
 details well done, but the galaxies themselves are colorful and vast. Sound effects are also well 
 done. The game uses very cool music in the background (I'm no music expert) . 
  
  Its not without flaws, though. The bosses (including the final Bowser) are dissapointingly easy. 
 And while the game attempts coop, to say that it was mediocre would be a huge understatement. The 
 end of the game was also slightly anticlimactic. 
  
  In short, for anyone who owns a Wii, this is a must have. This game has raised the bar for platforming 
 to a new level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sithisil
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  Well, we've all waited for it - the newest Mario game for the Wii. It's certainly a worthy addition 
 to the rest of the series, and you shouldn't hesitate in the least to buy this game.
  
  The Good:
  The game's graphics are awesome, and the music is (for the most part) great. The gameplay 
 is fun, and easy to jump into. There's a large variety of challenges and levels for you to play 
 through, and the new concept with gravity often leaves you upside down, sideways, and in just about 
 every other position you can think of. This can be a little hard to control at first, but after 
 a time, you'll be able to work just as well upside down as right side up. The levels and bosses 
 are fun and imaginitive, and various minigames such as surfing and being blown about in a bubble 
 (hard to explain) keep it interesting. The difficulty is easy enough to cater to most people who 
 will be playing the game. However, there are some very difficult challenges and levels for those 
 who are more experienced and wish to get everything in the game.
  
  The Bad:
  The reward for 100% collection of power stars was disappointing. It treats you to a second playthrough 
 with some minor differences. Also, some of the challegnes become highly repetitive. They blatantly 
 re-used the same world once, simply inverting the map so the right side was the left, and the left 
 was the right! Certain challenges for those wishing to collect all 120 stars can also become more 
 irritating than fun.
  
  The game is an overall highly enjoyable experience, but several aspects keep it from getting a 
 perfect score. I'd still highly recommend purchasing this game for your Wii; it should keep you 
 busy and entertained for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silverblur007
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2008 4:39 am PT
Review:  
  
  For years, the Mario franchise has been loved by people around the world. And then, Sonic came 
 along, and the Mario games seemed to get worse and worse... until today. Super Mario Galaxy is 
 the game that brought Mario back to his roots, a simple, just right learning curve game the whole 
 family can enjoy. The game starts with Bowser ruining a festival held one every 100 years and taking 
 Princess Peach (again) . So it's up to Mario to save her, but it is made difficult when Mario gets 
 blasted into deep space. Gameplay is easy enough with a balance of controls between the Wii remote 
 and the nunchuck. Even is you do get all 120 stars and defeat Bowser as Mario, you end up having 
 to do the same with Luigi, so you have a bit more of a challenge. If you have a Wii and are a big 
 Mario fan, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fernandomarques
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  Not many game characters are as famed and popular as the mustached plumber devised deep within 
 the bowels of the Nintendo Corporation. Thinking of it, save for perhaps Pac-Man, Mario is the 
 de-facto mascot of gaming. From the day players got to play the incredible Super Mario Bros. the 
 blue pantaloons and red shirt wearing half of the duo stared in countless games, ranging from kart 
 racing to Tetris look-alikes. But while any other game character would have long worn out his welcome, 
 Mario kept coming back to cheering ovations. Much of this was thanks to the long series of games 
 that made him what he is today in the first place  After wreaking havoc in 2D with the Mario Bros 
 series and causing a revolution of its own in 3D with Super Mario 64, fans have grown accustomed 
 to nothing less than fabulous gameplay. But even Mario can lose his breath, as was shown with Super 
 Mario Sunshine for the GameCube, a game that albeit great, just didn't deliver that sought after 
 magic the N64 predecessor had. Which leaves us with the question: Is Galaxy the true sequel to 
 Mario 64, or does it continue down the Sunshine path?
  
  
  A long time ago in Mushroom kingdo I mean space!
  
  
  Like it or not, every Mario game to 
 date comes with a story. And hard as it is to believe, this story is never entirely the same. Oh 
 sure, Princess Peach gets kidnapped almost every time and 90% of the time it is the super evil 
 Bowser that we have to thank for yet another adventure. But as shown is some of the more recent 
 outings, the band behind Mario still has enough imagination to whip up original ideas about what 
 happens to Peach. After all, as nice as Mushroom Kingdom is, we would have all grown tired of it 
 by now if it was the only locale the series would take place in. On the other hand, if every Mario 
 game pushed us into new environments the series would lose a lot of its trademark look. Quite a 
 pickle, isn't it? Well, with Miyamoto at the helm a solution wasn't really that hard to find.
 
  
  The game starts much like Super Mario 64. After a brief storybook narration we are shown Mushroom 
 Kingdom in the middle of the night, while the inhabitants are all having a jolly good time celebrating. 
 As with any Mario game before this is a clear invitation for trouble and it doesn't take long for 
 Bowser to appear. Apparently grown sick of kidnapping Peach over and over again he decides to be 
 quick about it and just snags her entire castle up. Mario, not happy with his princes being towed 
 away into outer space obviously tries to rescue her, but due to some unlucky timing fails and ends 
 up falling back down to the kingdom (no, he doesn't get hurt in the fall. He is Mario after all.) .
 
  
  
  
  Back on the ground while his princess is somewhere on the other side of the galaxy, Mario decides 
 to go after her. Before long he ends up on a massive starship, which dubs as Princes Peaches castle 
 from Mario 64. This space faring vessel is in fact nothing else than a huge hub, where the individual 
 rooms represent trips to the various galaxies. Each of the galaxies is a world of its own, much 
 like the picture worlds Mario 64 used. Up until Mario reaches the hub the game is pretty linear, 
 but from there on players always have a few open galaxies they can visit, leaving the order (and 
 which worlds to skip) entirely up to them.
  
  Before we move on to the more interesting aspects of the game, such as how it plays and what the 
 worlds are like, let us dally on a little longer on the cast of characters. You might not agree 
 with me on this one, but one of the reasons Super Mario Sunshine failed (compared to the rest of 
 the series obviously!) was due to the very weird cast of characters. No, wait! Let me rephrase 
 that. Sunshine failed because it replaced familiar faces such as the little mushroom people (with 
 Toad at the helm) with bizarre looking Pianta folk. These tree/palm hair people (with perhaps the 
 biggest noses this side of the gaming realms) were fun to watch at first, but save to a few lucky 
 gamers they simply didn't say Mario loud enough. With Mario Galaxy once again taking place outside 
 of Mushroom Kingdom chances were the same thing would happen all over again. Well, it doesn't. 
 All of the old favorites make a comeback, and even the newcomers such as princess Rosalina (the 
 proud proprietor of the space ship hub) end up making a good impression.
  
  
  Hub-a de Hub
  
  
  So, let us finally discuss gameplay. The simplest way to describe it would 
 be to call it Mario 64 2.0. Yes, even though the game takes place in outer space and many of the 
 worlds aren't land based like the Mario 64 worlds were, Galaxy still feels like a true successor 
 to Mario 64. At any given time several of the galaxies will be accessible, with up to 7 different 
 challenges per galaxy available. Finishing a challenge will award you a star and you need 60 to 
 beat the game. If you did the math just now you must think that there are only 10 or so galaxies 
 available. Well, non-linearity is the key word here, so you'll be happy to know that there are 
 in fact over 40 galaxies on the rooster and 120 stars to be collected altogether. 
  
  So, with 40 different galaxies you're probably thinking many of them are either clones or so generic 
 it doesn't really matter. I thought so too before playing the game, but as much as I hate being 
 wide of the mark, Galaxy proved me wrong. Each of the galaxies brings up a unique touch to the 
 gameplay. In one galaxy this might be due to the very unique level design while in the next the 
 main attraction will be the changing gravity. Yes, Super Mario Galaxy offers plenty of different 
 approaches within the different galaxies. You'll be doing the trademark platform jumping, running 
 around miniature planets, walking on ceilings and walls as the gravity shifts around, fighting 
 bosses that border on fuzzy bunny cute or sick rabid dog scary (well, not really) and more. Most 
 importantly however, you'll be having fun throughout the entire game.
  
  
  
  This might come as a bit of a surprise, since Sunshine tried the exact same thing (pushing Mario 
 into something new) but ended up falling short. It's hard to say exactly what makes it different 
 this time around, but Galaxy doesn't fall short. If anything, it makes the jump, does a couple 
 of crazy moves midair and ends up landing a good couple hundred yards ahead of even Mario 64. One 
 of the reasons that might be behind this is the way Mario shape-shifts. Borrowed from the New Super 
 Mario Bros. game for the Nintendo DS, Mario is constantly picking up powerups that give him new 
 powers. And they aren't just limited to him throwing fireballs either! From insanely high jumps, 
 skating on water and being a bee, the game will throw a lot at you, leaving you little if any time 
 to grow bored or fall into a routine. 
  
  The grass isn't entirely green in all parts of the galaxy however. Perhaps due to the fact that 
 the Wii is aimed at casual gamers or perhaps simply because players in general prefer not to be 
 challenged too much, Mario Galaxy strays heavily away from the sometimes hard challenges Mario 
 64 put before players and instead offers a more casual friendly ride. To get 60 stars needed to 
 finish the game should prove a trivial task for most experienced players out there and even complete 
 newcomers to platformers shouldn't lose sleep over any of the challenges. But, being the master 
 game designer Miyamoto is, the first 60 stars end up only being the start of the true fun. The 
 later 60 sparkling night-time sky bulbs (yeah, I'm running out of galaxy and star synonyms) are 
 a lot more challenging and should make a drop or two of sweat come out of the forehead of even 
 the biggest pros.
  
  
  Wii-Mario
  
  
  So how does the Wii affect Mario Galaxy? My main concern before playing was that the game would 
 suffer from the same disease a lot of Wii titles suffer  a disease I like to call Wii-gimickabilia. 
 You might never have heard of it before, but I'm sure you are familiar with the symptoms such as 
 using the Wii-mote in situations where the nunchuk would have been enough or over simplification 
 of various tasks, up to the point where a chimp would be able to do them (no offense to the Wii-Sports 
 fans) . The diagnosis?
  
  Negative, to my great relief. Super Mario Galaxy plays just like Super Mario 64 did, with a few 
 extra touches courtesy of the Wii-mote. Most of the platforming action is controlled exclusively 
 by the nunchuk. Jumping and punching is still in the realm of the Wii-mote, but we are talking 
 about button presses here, not wild hand gestures. In fact, the only platforming related action 
 the Wii-mote has most of the game is the Mario spin. It might be just one simple action, but it 
 ends up making the whole thing a perfect blend of standard 3D platformer controls and fresh new 
 ideas the Wii is so famous for. And just to reassure you  the analog controls are as tight and 
 responsive as they ever were.
  
  
  
  So do the Wii's motion controls even come into play here? Of course they do. The beauty of it is 
 that they are seamlessly integrated into the whole thing. So yes, most of the time the Wii-mote 
 isn't really needed per se. But you can use it to collect the coins and stars that fall from fallen 
 foes or broken items. You can run around and pick them up on their own, but using the Wii-mote 
 to swiftly gather them up with the cursor is a lot more elegant. At times the Wii-mote even becomes 
 the chief controller, such as when Mario is racing around riding a manta. There the remote acts 
 as the manta itself, so you need to twist it around to make the animal roll to the left or right. 
 Similarly, you use the remote to control Mario on top a glass ball, but here the remote acts like 
 a joystick.
  
  Which brings us to the camera. On consoles it has become pretty common that the left analog stick 
 controls the movement while the right is in charge of the camera. So, with the Wii only having 
 an analog stick on the nunchuk that might be kind of a problem. But, if you think about it for 
 a second, the N64 only had one analog stick as well and that didn't make Mario 64 any less grand. 
 I'll cut right to the chase here  yes, the auto-camera in Galaxy is almost perfect, so you never 
 have to worry about re-centering it or fine tuning it in any way whatsoever. Some of this trouble-free 
 is a freebie for the game, since you rarely find yourself stuck in small spaces where camera issues 
 usually pop up. Still, sometimes the camera doesn't re-center immediately, so you are stuck with 
 running blindly in one direction until it does. Hardly a problem really, since it happens so seldom, 
 but it does make you miss that second analog stick all the same.
  
  
  PSWii360
  
  
  Whoever said the Wii isn't capable of delivering gorgeous graphics is probably regretting their 
 words right now. Super Mario Galaxy is without question the prettiest Wii game on the market and 
 it does give some of the competitive platformers on the other next-gen platforms a run for their 
 money as well. Let's be realistic here  the Wii doesn't render anything in HD, so obviously the 
 resolution isn't as high as on the other consoles. But if you can get past that you'll find that 
 Galaxy actually has a lot going for itself. The character models are all exquisitely detailed, 
 probably because the Japanese are so crazy about game characters. That doesn't mean the environments 
 aren't just as good! Just the sheer variety of the galaxies you'll explore will leave you baffled, 
 let alone the artwork and character they all come equipped with by default (I wish more game developers 
 put this kind of love into their products) . And yes, Mario's animations are super smooth and ultra 
 natural (or as natural as a 4 foot plumber's animations can be) .
  
  All of which makes the sound look almost bad. There were never many voiceovers in Mario games, 
 but in this day and age reading every speech bubble with only music playing in the background is 
 something that should be reserved for handhelds (and even there only due to the storage limitations) . 
 At least the rest of the audio department did an excellent job. The music is well written and the 
 orchestra playing it did a great job. The mix of kiddy tunes and more dramatic melodies does wonders 
 for the series, as does the great mix of well known themes and fresh material. And the sound effects 
 are all pretty good too, though that isn't much of an achievement in a game like this.
  
  
  Conclusion
  
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is perhaps the biggest game the Wii will ever see. 
 Haters all around the world will probably misquote me and use my last statement as fuel to fire 
 their "the Wii sucks" attitude. What they will ignore however is the fact that my statement doesn't 
 make the Wii look bad. Quite the opposite, it shows how good Super Mario Galaxy really is. I'm 
 going to go a bit out of character here and say the following: If you are not a die-hard RPG fan 
 or FPS maniac, Super Mario Galaxy is probably the best game you are going to play this year. Heck, 
 for all I know nothing will top it in 2008 either!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Catpeniworld
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 28, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  This game beats the rest. Yes it does, it is like a sequel to Super Mario64. It has alot more stuff, 
 and what's good abput it, it's on wii.
  
  Gameplay-mario is invited to the Star festival, well guess what happens next, bowser has to ruin 
 the party, he comes in Pirate Ships? Mario stays with rosalina to save the galaxy.
  
  Boss-The final boss, not gonna spoil surprises, but you encounter Bowser jr alot.
  
  Graphics-The 
 graphics are amazing, pretty good, it's graphics will leave you in "Aw".
  
  Characters-Start with Mario, but after you gain all the stars, say hello to Luigi.
  
  Mail 
 tode- He comes and sends you messages from luigi and Peach.
  
  Finding Luigi?-When the Mail Tode sends you a letter, sometimes it's Luigi, looking for stars, 
 he found it but got stuck, you gotta save him.
  
  Controls- use the wii remote and numchuck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hyper_Tails
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  I'm a little late in getting this game seeing as I only got my Wii a month ago, but this game alone 
 makes me wish I'd bought it sooner!
  
  I was always a bit skeptical about Galaxy before its release, especially after the somewhat disappointing 
 Super Mario Sunshine on the Gamecube. The idea of taking Mario into space was also quite a different 
 step and I worried that it would quickly run short of ideas. Well, all of my concerns were unnecessary; 
 Super Mario Galaxy has exceeded all expectations and is perhaps the best Mario game to date, certainly 
 the best game on the Wii to date!
  
  The story should come as no surprise; Princess Peach has been kidnapped once again by the evil 
 Bowser and taken away to the centre of the universe. It is up to Mario to travel through various 
 galaxies to save the princess. In order to do this, he needs help from the Lumas and their "mama" 
 Rosalina. Her mobile observatory can take Mario to Peach's location, however, Bowser has stolen 
 the Power Stars that power the observatory, and it's Mario's job to recover these from the different 
 galaxies before he can save Peach. While it's not the deepest of stories, this is Mario we're talking 
 about, so I didn't expect an epic Final Fantasy style plot. It's certainly understandable for all 
 ages, and there's even an optional subplot surrounding Rosalina's past.
  
  The galaxies, accessed from the observatory, offer varied themes, missions and methods of gameplay. 
 Once criticism of Super Mario Sunshine is that all of the worlds had a similar tropical feel, but 
 Galaxy returns to the colourful and varied worlds seen in previous games in the series. There are 
 several stars to find on each major galaxy, similar to the previous 3D outings. There are also 
 one-off galaxies and more importantly boss worlds, which gain you access to more galaxies. One 
 of the best aspects of the game is that it never feels repetitive as there's so much to offer. 
 The boss battles against Bowser in particular are epic moments in the game. There are, however, 
 times when you may end up too frustrated to carry on for a while, as I'll describe further on.
 
  
  The controls are reasonably simple: You use the Nunchuk's control stick to move Mario, A on the 
 Wii Remote to jump, Z to crouch/stomp. The Wii Remote's motion controls add a new element to Mario 
 games; pointing the remote at the screen will reveal a cursor used to pick up Star Bits throughout 
 each level and a simple shake of the remote will allow Mario to spin. The controls are easy to 
 learn quickly for anyone, and don't go overboard on "innovation", keeping it simple really does 
 work best. As an added bonus, a second player can pick up a Wii remote and help pick up Star Bits.
 
  
  With regards to Super Mario Galaxy's graphics, this is probably the best on offer for the Wii to 
 date. It's crisp and colourful, with some impressive effects. It might not have the high polygon 
 counts and high definition that some other consoles' games have, but there is no doubt a fantastic 
 charm and art style. Frame-rates are constant and there's no noticeable slowdown. In my opinion, 
 the only Wii title that gives Galaxy a run for its money in the graphics department is Super Smash 
 Bros. Brawl. Sound is an equally brilliant aspect of Galaxy. Some pieces of music in the game are 
 instant classics in the same way that some of Super Mario 64's soundtrack was. There is not the 
 extensive voice acting that there was in Sunshine, only the odd line accompanying text narrative. 
 Is this a step backward? It could be argued so, but personally it doesn't matter to me either way.
 
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is a lengthy adventure game. In order to see the ending, you need at least 60 
 stars. This might not take too long, but the real length comes from collecting every last star. 
 There's a total of 120, and even after that there's more to do, but I won't spoil anything! While 
 this extra challenge might not be in everyone's interest, it certainly brings more replay value 
 for the more "hardcore" of gamers. For veterans, Galaxy might be considered easy, especially after 
 the sometimes unforgiving Sunshine. Some of the later stars really test the player's skill, and 
 often patience. This brings me on to my main criticism. There seems no point of using lives and 
 having Game Overs, especially when in some scenarios I ended up dying over and over. Later in the 
 game, when tackling purple coin and daredevil challenges, it's very easy to make a mistake and 
 have to start again. Lives only add to the frustration. The camera can sometimes be awkward, but 
 I've never had reason to blame it for dying. The game is however just the right difficulty to make 
 it accessible for casual gamers yet somewhat challenging to core gamers; frustrating levels tend 
 to be the last stars.
  
  Overall, I thoroughly recommend Super Mario Galaxy for the Wii. It rises back up to and even surpasses 
 the high standards set by its predecessor Super Mario 64, making it the must-have experience for 
 all Wii owners! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joshua_San
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario's prowess is undeniable. The game makers responsible for Mario titles never leave a 
 job half finished. They bring exciting new aspects to every game. They found the magic midway point 
 between being innovative, and keeping a games core principals as well. In other words, it never 
 feels like you're playing the same game over again, but at the same time it still feels like Super 
 Mario. 
  The new features in this game couldn't have been better. Mario's spin attack was grafted into the 
 game play nicely without seeming repetitive. Using the star paths to get around was exciting and 
 visually stunning. The new suits are fun and add a lot to the game play. (I'm especially happy 
 to see the return of fire Mario.)
  One huge problem with past Mario games and other 3D adventure games is the frustrating camera angles. 
 Whenever there's a difficult challenge and you have to make hat quick times jump it seems like 
 the camera always fails on you. When I saw the mini planet design of Super Mario Galaxy, I thought 
 for sure there was no way that they could possibly make the camera angle work I was proven wrong. 
 I had very little trouble with the camera throughout the span of the game.
  The game play was great and well balanced. There were easy missions to boost the moral, many fair 
 levels that produced a good challenge but were never frustrating, and then there were the classic 
 Mario style test your patience missions. The boss battles were fun as always. And the Prankster 
 Comets were the best Idea. 
  This review sounds great why not give the game a 10? Compared to Super Mario 64 or Super Mario 
 Sunshine, this game felt a deal more restricted. The game play was much more linear than in the 
 past games. It's almost like a "3D side scrolling game." What do I mean by that? In the past 2 
 games, they dropped you into a large level and said go at it. I liked that very much. In Galaxy, 
 game designers kind of used the star paths to "control you to your destination through each round 
 with obvious exceptions. There was limited free exploration. Many planets were only accessible 
 in one mission, and you usually couldn't backtrack. There were of course several maps that just 
 let you do whatever though.
  There you have it. Super Mario Galaxy is of the best the Wii has to offer. Whether you're a long 
 time Mario fan or not, you must play this games. I'll stop talking now so you can go and pick it 
 up for yourself.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scanzo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  I only spent about 6 hours at the most playing Super Mario Galaxy and I can say it is a great game, 
 it is the deffinition of FUN. Galaxy has a new feeling, but at the same time it feels as if I have 
 played it before, Its not hard at all to play, after the first 5 minutes I could play with ease. 
 I like how they brought back all of our old favorite enemies that we fought in Mario 64. 
  
  I do have one thing to say that I am a bit dissapointed about, when we get the stars.... there 
 is no Mario tune to end the level with. Thats the only gripe I have with this game.
  
  When I am finished sufing the web, I am going to hop on the Wii and play some Mario Galaxy, and 
 enjoy every momment of it. All Nintendo games are plain out FUN, there never competitive and thats 
 wht I love about Nintendo. I am tryingto get my WiFi to work so I can download my old favorites, 
 such as Super Mairo World, Mario Bros1-3, Duck Hunt, Starfox 64, Yoshi's Island/Story, Super Mario 
 64, Donkey Kong Country, Super Gouls and Goblins, Adventure Island, etc, etc, and another etc. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  For many years Mario has always taken the spotlight for Nintendo every year on any Nintendo system. 
 Mario has strucked the Wii and got alot of people's attention in 2007 with Mario Galaxy.
  Basic story Princess Peach gets kiddnapped by Bowser and his army and it's up to Mario to save 
 the princess. But this time Mario has to go through the universe and collecting stars to help the 
 Lumas and there mother Rosalina who helps Mario out on his quest to save Peach and the fate of 
 the unvierse. Alot of people say that Mario Galaxy was alot like Super Mario 64 and brings them 
 back alot of memories for most gamers.
  
  Gameplay= Useing the Wii mote and nunchuck to move Mario is simply stright foward to any gamer, 
 useing the nunchuck to move Mario and the Wii mote to shake the mote to spin or jump or swim. There 
 are alot of puzzles and bosses to go through and collecting 120 stars altogethor, but you would 
 need 60 stars in ordered to beat the game and stopping Bowser again like you would see in other 
 Mario games, at every boss battle if you beat them you'll get a Grand Star and they can unlock 
 more stages, the more stars you get the more levels there are. You can use these crystal gems to 
 buy or unlock new levels that you'd probably see in other platformer games like Jak and Daxter 
 or Ratchet and Clank. Mario can change into different oufits to get to other places like Bee Mario 
 can fly making you reach higher places or Ghost Mario where you can go through walls or everyone's 
 favourite Fire Mario.
  
  Graphics and Sound= I love how Nintendo have done to the graphics more closer to a good PS2, beautiful 
 enviroments and planets to blast through. If they brought a sequel or a spin off on the DS I can 
 imagine that the graphics are gonna be like that close to the Wii version. I also loved hearing 
 the soundtrack on some planets the music for that world are really worth listening to close to 
 epic games like Final Fantasy or Kingdom Hearts. Some tracks do make you feel your a part of that 
 planet it also has everyone's favourite tune which the Mario them which you'll probably hear near 
 the end of the game obiously you must of heard of the main theme to a Mario game.
  
  Overall= Collecting 60 stars can take you up to more then 20 hours but if you want to collect 120 
 it'll take more then that and unlocking bonuses in cluding Hidden Chapter where you can play as 
 Luigi who does help Mario out by telling you where he finds the stars for you. After playing Galaxy 
 for more then 5 days it was amazing for a Wii game, I could not stop playing it just felt like 
 a really good platformer which I havn't played in years for Mario fans or gamers Galaxy is amazing 
 game for any age. I was wanting more in Galaxy but I guess there are many things to do before waitng 
 for the next Mario game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: widdowson91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy sets a new benchmark for the modern day platform game.
  Yet again Princess Toadstool (Peach) has been kidnapped by Bowser (he must seriously like her to 
 keep taking her) and it's up to Mario yet again to rescue her.
  Rather like previous 3D Mario games, Super Mario Galaxy boasts lots of playable worlds. For example, 
 on Super Mario 64, there are 15 worlds with 6 levels on each, and on Super Mario Sunshine there 
 are if I can remember 12 worlds with 8 levels on, well Galaxy is different.
  Mario is on a huge ship called the Observatory, and on this there are a numerous amount of rooms 
 and each room has between 2 or 3 worlds, plus some side quests. There are I think 6 rooms in the 
 observatory and the later ones have 3 worlds in it. But on Galaxy each world has only 3 stars plus 
 i secret star, so there are less stars per level.
  But there are miles more hidden stars on this game then there is on other recent Mario games so 
 expect to look hard for them.
  
  There are also 4 different transformations for Mario:
  - Fire Mario off the old games
  - Ice Mario who can freely walk on water
  - Boo Mario who has 
 all the powers of a Boo ghost
  - And finally Bee Mario who can fly around like a bee.
  These different forms are needed to progress through levels and are essential to getting the stars.
 
  
  The levels in Super Mario Galaxy are brilliant. The constant flying from one mini-planet to the 
 next and brilliant bosses and enemies show how good the games design is. Some people may be put 
 off by the constant flying from one planet to the next, but it actually works a treat. It's simple 
 to go from one planet to the next; all you have to do is step in the teleporter and simply shake 
 the pointer. It's that simple.
  
  There are a total of 120 stars in the game, and once you've got them all you unlock Luigi and can 
 go through the entire game just using him (Luigi may jump higher than Mario but he is physically 
 weaker and takes more time for him to kill enemies) . There you can get the 120 stars again but 
 it is more difficult.
  
  Even though this was one of the first Wii games to be shown at the E3 in 2005, it wasn't a release 
 title, which made history as the Wii is the only Nintendo console EVER to not have a Mario game 
 as a release title. Well was the wait worth it..... Oh yes.
  Super Mario Galaxy is quite possibly the most fun Mario game ever, and although Mario games are 
 renowned for there level design, the fact that you can fly through space and explore loads of miniature 
 planets and unlock new Mario forms, which is a first for a 3D Mario Game, it's well worth getting 
 if your a fan of Mario.
  Or for that fact......... if you own a Wii just get it regardless. 
  
  Gameplay  10
  Graphics 
  9
  Sound  9
  Value  10
  Design - 10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: supertrunks25
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 25, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  Thsi game is incredble! The grafics are just pure amazing. The gameplay is amazing, the whole game 
 is amazing! Everything in and about this game you will fall in love with. It starts out just like 
 any other Mario game, with Pricess Peach getting captured by Bowser. And it has the same concept 
 to it, except in this one you find yourself floating around in space, collecting star rocks and 
 and even becoming a bee or even a ghoast here and there. If you have a Wii and your craving a amazing 
 Mario game, or just a great game, Super Mario Galaxy is the game for you. Its got Luigi and many 
 other charactors from past Mario games, like Gombas. This is the way Mario is supossed to be, fast 
 fun and pure action. This is the way to go. Game of the decade maybe.... Maybe even the century. 
 Its just a very great game, the way you can interact into the game with the Wii remote is just 
 pure gold. You cant have a Wii and not have this. Get it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgreco_1988
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The graphics in Super Mario Galaxy are simply beautiful. The colors are sharp and crisp. 
 Each individual "Galaxy" is brimming with tons of detail. The art direction of the game really 
 sticks out to me as well. I love it when developers realize that the wii cant display graphics 
 at the same level as the 360 and PS3 and use alternative methods to make the games look beautiful. 
 Super Mario Galaxy is a perfect example of that.
  
  Game Play: This is where this game really shines. You will be running along a platform and the 
 next thing you know you'll be completely flipped upside down and running along the base of the 
 platform. Gravity will reverse and you'll be sucked to the ceiling. You would think that this would 
 make the game awkward but the controls work surprisingly well. Also, Mario's typical punch and 
 kick moves are replaced by the much simpler spin attack. All that is required of you is a simple 
 shake of your controller. This mechanic actually works very well and is used for a variety of other 
 tasks such as activating launch stars.
  
  Sound: Super Mario Galaxy's music consists of fully orchestrated and extremely upgraded classic 
 Mario tunes, along with several new ones. The music really helps set the mood of the game. One 
 nice touch in this game is the Wii Remotes internal speaker. It really helps give you a sense of 
 immersion.
  
  Multi player: Although this game does not have a full fledged co op mode (which would be freaking 
 amazing) , there is a fun addition thats good for an interested friend that just happens to have 
 a spare controller. Any one person can grab a Wii Remote and start aiming at screen to collect, 
 and fire star bits. Although this is very limited multi player mode, it is a nice feature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tallicfan20
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 11:12 pm PT
Review:  I began with Super Mario World many many years ago, and fell in love. Then I went on to Mario 64, 
 which is an enduring classic I still play to this day. Never really went for Sunshine, but then 
 I got a Wii and decided to get this game. I had played it in the store and thought it was really 
 cool. I decided to buy it, and I'll definitely say its a hell of a lot of fun to play, and the 
 visuals are stupendous, especially for a Nintendo Wii game. 
  
  However, I have a problem. It is that it is way too easy. This is in part due to the linearity, 
 the lacking of which is why Mario 64 is so much better. I've played the Galaxy for a total of 4 
 hours and already beaten 5 bosses, which took very little effort. I really had wished for a harder 
 and longer game, because the concepts in this game had some really high potential. however, I will 
 say that the sound is great, and the music orchestrated really sounds good in a way Twilight Princess 
 failed to do. I wouldn't have minded voice acting, as voices from the Saturday AM cartoons would 
 have been sufficient. But still, this game is an overall very solid Wii experience. It mixes in 
 the classics without it being really played out, in a very fresh new way. The use of Luigi is also 
 something which gets high marks from me. 
  
  If you have a Wii, you should get this game. However, if you have played Mario 64, and are expecting 
 something that matches its legendary status, you will be disappointed. This game is not nearly 
 is difficult, as some of the stars in Super Mario 64 were genuinely very hard to find or get, and 
 you had freedom to chose which ones. Bowser and bosses were much harder too in those games. However, 
 for the games which come out in 2008 for Nintendo, this one is a gem. Get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1337_lost_souls
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  It's a pretty good game but it's seriously not as good as everybody on the internet says it is. 
 After about two days of playing it, i was glad i bought the game used, it got so boring. I can't 
 believe people are saying this is the best Wii game, the spin attack's timing is hard to get right, 
 the swimming parts are annoying, standing on the bubble is annoying and frustrating, and also the 
 ice levels with Ice-Mario are not cool. Oh and Fire-Mario is timed!
  
  Ok the game does have some upsides, like the innovativeness is really clever, the boss fights are 
 fun, star bits are a good weapon to use on enemies to stall them until you get to them. Plus bullet 
 bills are cool (NOT IN WATER THOUGH!)
  
  If you really want to get the game I'd recommend renting the game before buying it, or getting 
 the game used so you can also return it if you get bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crysis-matter
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  super mario galaxy is a mario game but its not JUST another mario game it is set in outer space 
 (hence the title galaxy) and you visit all these cool and goofy galaxies with planets and what 
 not. this game has big galaxys with 6 stars and small galaxys with one star the wii remote pointer 
 is used alot to get star bits to unlock more galaxies. you also shake the wii remote to do this 
 spin attack. the gravity in this game is fun and awesome you can get dizzy going upside down but 
 you'll get used to it. the gameplay in this game is fun, it really uses good use of the wii remote 
 it pratically uses every button on the nunchuck and the remote the graphics are outstanding and 
 the best cartoonish animated on the wii and mabye ever. the music is outstanding with some old 
 mario song. if you like mario games there is no way you will be convinced to play this game. this 
 game has something for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lyness_21
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2008 1:48 am PT
Review:  Awesome game, stunning design, extremely fun game. A gotta have in anyone's collection.
  This is a wonderful Mario game, it is really entertaining, you'll see yourself playing this game 
 for hours. Great any Mario fan and even if you are not a great game to start off with. This game 
 is very well designed, sound and graphics are amazing, there are so many galaxies to play in. This 
 game is great for any age, and gender. Lot's of fun too. It is not very difficult, I find it just 
 right. This game and Super Smash Bros are must have Mario games for the Wii. I don't think there 
 is any other game in the market for any other system quite like this one, with this game you can 
 experience the feeling of gravity. In this game there are many activities for you to do. For example, 
 you can chose which galaxy you would like to vist and find the star pieces, amd lots of cool stuff. 
 If you don't have it, don't think it twice, just buy it. = ) So I guess thats about it, I won't 
 like to spoil it with too many details. = P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scara828
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games you can spend your money on and have a good taste of what it is. Lets 
 start
  Story:
  I'm gonna slap in the face the one who ask me bout the story, its all the same from begining to 
 end, so don't buy it for its story, lets give a 7 here
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is basically the same, you jump, you stomp, and spin, controls are just simple and 
 you can get used to it in no time at all that and the addition to new powerups and some mini-game 
 fun the controls show almost no flaws, lets give it a 9 here.
  Camera:
  It gives that feeling of gravity and the cinematic view you want, problem is that you basically 
 lose control when walking upside-down, lets give here a 9 also.
  Graphics:
  This is a perfect example of how Wii games must look like, everything is just so detailed and well 
 animated, no pixels at all which makes the best looking game of wii till now. No discution 10 here
 
  In overall geting stars can be a fun task, the problem is that it is too short to be perfect so 
 basically this is a 9.5 for the overall 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laurachinp
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 21, 2008 1:08 am PT
Review:  Mario galaxy is a great game to play, with it so far being the best game for the wii. Its graphics 
 are amazing, along with the level design that has never been seen before, some of the levels are 
 just really crazy! 
  
  The music is something to remember because it has a real space feel to it. Some of the music is 
 retro, with a twist but some are just breathtaking. 
  
  The games 2 player was a let down because player one controls Mario and the other moves the cursor 
 to collect star bits, player 2 would get bored very quickly by just getting star bits.
  
  The difficulty of the the game is just right for beginners and older players. the controls are 
 straight forward and easy for beginners who will learn very quickly. When you get past 60 stars 
 you can go on and do the harder stars to eventually get 120 to unlock something.
  
  Overall Mario galaxy is a game you can come back to when you've completed the game and just do 
 all the stars again (i did) . I give it 10/10 because of the quality it has and i would recommend 
 it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mightylikearose
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2008 9:01 pm PT
Review:  So, basically, this is the reason I bought a Wii, and it seriously delivered! I found myself up 
 late, swinging the Wii-mote into the wee hours of the morning with Mario shooting balls of fire, 
 soaring from galaxy to galaxy, racing the clock, balancing on balls, phasing through walls, chasing 
 celestial rabbits, and generally rocking my world!! This is truly a gameplay experience unlike 
 any I have ever had. The Wii-specific controls feel totally natural and really cool sometimes (like 
 the ball-balancing stages) . The game looks pretty wonderful. It is bright, colorful, and full of 
 coins, enemies, star bits, pipes, and mushrooms to keep your attention glued to the screen. The 
 graphics do not necessarily look next-gen and if you play it on an HDTV, it might look a bit rough 
 around the edges. But all of that seriously does melt away when you are immersed in the quality 
 of this game's many interesting levels and challenges. That brings me to another huge reason to 
 play this game: replay value up the yin-yang!!! There are over 100 levels with all of the comets, 
 etc., and if you finish it all, you will gain access to a whole new world The basic levels are 
 pretty easy, for the most part, but some of the secret stars and comets can be pretty intensely 
 challenging!!! And for anyone who has played a Mario game before, you know that the game doesn't 
 end when you have finished every level. It is the sort of game that is so fun that it sticks, and 
 you will always return to it for a quick Mario fix with your favorite levels. The story is typical 
 Mario, but Mario games are not played for their stories They are played for the fun of bopping 
 enemies and finding secrets, and the satisfaction of finally completing that one challenge after 
 dying 20-plus times!!! This game is no different, except that it adds so much amusement with the 
 planet-hopping and Wii-mote, that if you like Mario games at all, you really should get this game. 
 Moreover, if you LOVE Mario games you might consider purchasing the system just to play this one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bopie64
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  I love this sequel to Super Mario 64. The graphics are great, the story mode is very fun with immersive 
 motion controls on some levels and I love how the gravity is so crazy because it is really fun 
 to fly around by getting mushrooms, etc. There are pretty much no disappointments in this game. 
 It is perfect because it goes to many different galaxies and planets and everytime you return to 
 levels to do different objectives (comets notwithstanding) you get to go to different parts and 
 experience different events. It never gets old. I'm sure even after I complete all the stars it 
 will be fun to return to play. I have beaten the last boss but I haven't gotten all the stars. 
 This is a great sequel, I recommend it for any Nintendo fan. It never gets old. It is also very 
 easy to learn to play. Play it and see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sanim02
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Ever since Super Mario 64 came out for the N64 back in 1996, everyone was waiting for a great sequel. 
 In 2002 many people were greatly disappointed with Super Mario Sunshine on the GC. Why? Cuz there 
 wasnt any change in the game at all since the old Mario 64. And now 5 years have passed and Mario 
 comes back for another round of platforming fun on the Wii. And is it worth it? ABSOLUTELY!
  
  Gameplay:
  Pros: everything
  Cons: camera might annoy you in the beginning of the game.
 
  Score: 10/10
  
  Platformers were the key to success for many devs back in the N64 times when they went from 2D 
 to 3D, and games like Mario 64 and Ocarina of Time were great examples. But ever since, platformers 
 havnt had much big impact in the market.. Why? cuz FPS and the action adventure genre took control.. 
 But Galaxy completly changed the genre. You control Mario. You can jump, crouch, butt stomp as 
 in the classics. Whats new is the wii remote. If you point the remote at your screen you see a 
 cursor that looks like a star and if you press the B button you shoot these lilttle things called 
star blitz" to stunt foes in order to ram into them to collect more star blitz or jump on them 
 to collect coins. Star blitz are important in the game, since you can unlock new levels and also 
 unlock new path ways in a level. Coins are there to heal you life. Mario has 3 life bars and each 
 hit he takes takes out a bar. So in order to heal you must collect coins. There are other collectibles 
 such as life mushroom, which gives you an extra life. The bee costume which lets you fly for a 
 short amount of time as a bee and also the boo costume which allows you to become a ghost and go 
 through walls. The game makes you go from planet to planet doing crazy stuff. Although its very 
 hard to explain in real words because the world is soo amazing that words cant describe how fun 
 it is to play. The camera might be a little awkward in the beginning of the game but you will get 
 used it once your used to the game. The game features 2 player sequence when another player picks 
 up a Wii Remote and acts as a star. He/she can collect star blitz slow down foes by tapping on 
 them and also make Mario jump very high. It's a great way for parents to get involve in the game 
 with their kids.
  
  Graphics:
  Pros: Great artistic design, A lot of colorful details, Everything looks gorgeous.
  Cons: Up 
 close textures look ugly.
  
  Graphically the Wii cant do much, but Galaxy sets the term for amazing looking games on the Wii 
 even higher. Galaxy simply is the 2nd best looking game on the Wii next to Brawl. Although Brawl 
 doesnt have any amazing background which is very lively ( especially when you are in the subspace 
 emissionary) . The game simply looks outstanding in every way. The textures look pretty yuck when 
 you are up close, but you are never that up close really. The game is just amazing to look at.
 
  
  Sound:
  Pros: The sound tracks are simply outstanding, no voice actors like in Sunshine to ruin the fun.
 
  Cons: Being a Mario game, it simply doesnt sound like one AT TIMES.
  
  The game simply sounds outstanding. The orchestrated music is amazing to listen to over and over 
 again and they really match the levels perfectly. There really isnt a single flaw in the music. 
 There the flaw comes s that being a Mario game.. it doesnt really sound like one at times.. Which 
 is perfectly fine if your not THAT into Mario.. or if you simply dont care much. It really isnt 
 an issue at all.
  
  Value: The game isnt all that long or all that difficult and mind bogging as Sunshine or Mario 
 64 were. It is a very simple and fun game to play. The main story will take about 12 - 15 hours 
 to finish if you wanna get through it as fast as possible ( im simply estimating just soo you know 
 there: P) but for anyone who wants to take their time with games, this one will probably be done 
 in a week max. The games level designs are soo outstanding that you might want to finish it once 
 more or go ahead and collect all 120 stars. But meh.. this game really is a one or two (tops) time 
 deal. The game is completely worth buying if you are a Wii owner and no matter what your tastes 
 are, you will kind something to like in Mario Galaxy. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wassup432
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 17, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Here is my review for Super Mario Galaxy:
  
  Pros:
  -Great camera
  -Wonderful graphics
  -Side story in game is nice
  -Fun boss fights
  
  Cons:
  -Some parts 
 are too simple
  -Mutiplayer is useless
  
  Story:
  As usual, Bowser kidnaps Peach for his own reasons. Mario must save her and defeat Bowser yet again. 
 Although this is the same tale over and over again, the game can still be a lot of fun and the 
 story can still be enjoyable. To spice things up a little bit, Nintendo threw in a side story about 
 a little girl who finds a star and has several adventures. The side story is a nice break from 
 the main story. Also as you progress, you can experience some great events such as Luigi being 
 himself and the little Toads helping Mario. Most of the comic relief is very funny which makes 
 the story better. Overall, the story works. 10/10
  
  Gameplay:
  I haven't played Super Mario 64 or Super Mario Sunshine at all. The gameplay is so good it can 
 appeal to other people outside the Mario fanbase. The object of the game is to get the power star 
 at the end of the level. There are several galaxies to explore and each section of a galaxy holds 
 the Grand Star, the main star used for the space station you are on right now. You can explore 
 the space station when you aren't in a level. In levels, you can also get unique powerups such 
 as turning into a ghost and becoming a bee. Most of the game is in 3D but there are times when 
 it becomes 2D. The 2D parts are really fun and enjoyable and remind you of the classic Mario platformers. 
 The camera works perfectly in this game and you'll never feel lost. Also, to set aside the usual 
 platforming, Nintendo threw in some races which are a nice break from platforming. The races are 
 very fun and enjoyable. Boss fights are really entertaining and can be challenging at times. They 
 hardly feel repetive because most of the bosses you encounter are very diverse and unique from 
 each other. As fun as most of this stuff is, it can be a little too simple at times. There were 
 some bosses that took one try to beat them. Although bosses are hard, the races are more challenging 
 and require much more time than standard boss battles. There is also mutiplayer but it isn't very 
 fun. One person controls the game at a normal pace and the other person picks up stars and throws 
 them. The mutiplayer aspect isn't very useful but single player is lengthy and fun. Overall, gameplay 
 suceeds. 10/10
  
  Graphics:
  This is one of the Wii's best looking titles. The colors are vibrant and everything is smooth. 
 Backgrounds and enviroments are wonderful and so are character models. Cinematic cutscenes look 
 great and the little details in game looks nice. There are parts of the game that are really unique 
 such as the side story. The side story is made of a 2D image with text on it, similar to a picture 
 book. The book's drawings are really nice and colorful. The text is also nice and simple to read. 
 Overall, graphics are perfect. 10/10
  
  Sound:
  Without a classic Mario theme, then this game wouldn't be out. Luckily, Nintendo threw in some 
 classic Mario themes that still sound great after all these years. There is minimum voice acting 
 in the game but most of Nintendo's games don't need voice acting. The little voice acting is really 
 nice and done perfectly. The new themes for this game are just as nice as the classic themes and 
 sound effects sound nice and humorus at times. Overall, the sound is wonderful like all Mario games. 
 10/10
  
  Value:
  The game is a must buy or a must rent. After your first playthrough, you get to collect the remaining 
 stars you didn't collect before. There are also more galaxies to explore, adding the lengthy first 
 playthrough with more depth. This is a game that must be played by all Wii owners. 10/10
  
  Tilt:
  Overall, I really enjoyed this game. With a funny story and superb gameplay, this game 
 is one of the best Mario games out there. All Mario fans and Wii owners should give this game a 
 try because this game is one experience that you'll never forget. 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toro_Nev
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 16, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Hello everyone,
  
  Thank you for reading my very first Gamespot Review!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  Mario Galaxy was released in North America on November 12, 2007. It was hyped out to be the Wii 
 game of the year, and it lived up to it. Anyways, lets continue on with the review.
  
  This game is just GORGEOUS. From its mind boggling levels, to its fantastic artwork, this Mario 
 game really does shine above the others. There are around 240 stars to collect throughout the course 
 of the game. Also, once the game finishes as Mario (120 Stars) , you get to play as his sidekick-brother 
 Luigi!!!!!
  
  The difficulty of the game is something I would rate as just right because of the fact that anyone 
 can finish the game after collecting 60 stars, but more serious gamers would go around and collect 
 every single star. Most levels are either really quick or very long, and there are only a few stages 
 where some might encounter major difficulty (I had a lot of problems doing the wave surf thingy) .
 
  
  I really liked the music in Mario Galaxy. Many of the sounds were familiar, but were redone to 
 set the 'Galaxy' atmosphere.
  
  The only thing I did not like about this game was the Multiplayer, where the first player controls 
 Mario, while the other moves the cursor along the screen to collect star bits. I think that if 
 after the 120 stars, you could have played alongside Luigi, this game would have been even more 
 fun.
  
  As you can see, my title says 'Probably one of the best ways to introduce someone to the Nintendo 
 Wii', and this is said because the game is just beautiful, the motion controls to a beginner aren't 
 that hard, and well, Mario Galaxy is just plain fun. After I showed Mario Galaxy to a few cousins 
 of mine, they wanted a Wii and Mario Galaxy A. S. A. P.!
  
  Overall, I rate Mario Galaxy a 10/10, and I would recommend Super Mario Galaxy to anyone who has 
 a Wii Console. You wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thelukeofdarth
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 15, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  I preordered this game three months before it came out and I thought I was taking a huge risk because 
 I had no idea what this game was really about. At first I thoght I was making a mistake preordering 
 this game so early but boy was I wrong! This game was so worth the wait. It has one of the most 
 incredible graphics for wii I have ever seen. The game is so much fun and so exciting. Even though 
 some levels are extrremely hard there is always a way to get past them. The video clips are really 
 cool especially the intro and the end. Also the way you use the wiimote is really cool and goes 
 great with the game. Like you shake the wiimote to blast off to other planets and you point it 
 at the screen to collect Star bits, wich is like the money of this game. You move with the nunchuk 
 and and jump with A. Also you shoot enemies with star bits with B, I think this is a pretty good 
 feature to this game. This game will provide hours of fun and challenges for the whole family. 
 I think one of the best features is the two player mode. Its great for non-gamers like parents 
 or younger siblings to play with you and its pretty easy for them and helpful for you. They will 
 be collecting starbits holding back harmful enemies and helping you jump higher while you play 
 the real game. This game has gotten the game of the year award for 2007 and it really deserves 
 it. If your having doubts about buying this game don't because trust me it won't dissapoint you 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peach100
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 14, 2008 9:57 pm PT
Review:  As soon as I had started playing the game I was already sucked into it's undeniable charm.
  
  I enjoyed this game immensely. The graphics are super that even the corny storyline was brightened 
 up by the graphics.
  
  All the missions that you can play are awesome. There's so many things to do in one mission that 
 you could play them all over and over again without getting bored too fast.
  
  I love how the game makes use of the Wii remote and nunchuck. The controllers make you feel like 
 you're actually in the game.
  
  There are no problems, such as glitches, that I have faced. The game runs smoothly. The difficcutly 
 isn't too hard and it isn't too easy. 
  
  I honestly have no complaints about this game. And it's rare for me not to have at least one complaint.
 
  
  I will always love this game. It's awesome. I recommend this game to a child as well as an elder. 
 Anyone who plays this game will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pedre123
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  this has good graphics and all but really i was bored of it really quickly. i found that i was 
 never really driven to play this game and beat each new level like i was with mario kart and it 
 is definitely got one of the worst two players that i have ever experienced. this is a good game 
 but really best game of the year is really really really an overstatement a game like halo 3 that 
 has a great campaign and once you finished you can do multiplayer and stuff like that and also 
 playing with a friend is fun too. galaxy is too confusing for me i prefer straight forward games 
 that are just playing as well as you can not too much thinking, thats what video games are for. 
 
  this game once you've finally beaten it there is truly nothing at all left to do you can do it 
 again but still this is a decent game. the game itself is fun enough but there is not enough to 
 do for me to be thouroughly entertained by it for long periods of time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wikipedian
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 14, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  After a year of mostly "just good" games, Nintendo has developed a true masterwork that ranks up 
 there with Ocarina of Time. Gameplay-wise, the controls highly enhance an already very fun game. 
 However, the waggle isn't what pushes this platformer forward, but the amazing level design. You 
 don't need a lengthy tutorial or puzzle over "how to do this", you just do it and have fun with 
 it. 
  
  Graphically, Galaxy surpasses everything we have seen on the Wii. It looks quite a bit like an 
 early 360 game. Artistically, this game is a real treat. The spacey environments give the game 
 a surreal and colorful feel. 
  
  Koji Kondo has really hit it off this time. Classic leitmotifs combine with new "epic" sounding 
 tunes to create the perfect, light and jovial mood for this game. The music is really something 
 to hum to. However, the audio from the Wiimote sounds strange... but not bad at all.
  
  At Twelvish Hours, the game isn't really the longest. However, each level has absolutely huge replay 
 value, you'll find yourself wanting to hunt for every single star.
  
  Fun, beautiful, accessible, jovial and addictive. Super Mario Galaxy will have you immersed. A 
 true masterwork, this belongs with classics like Final Fantasy IV and Zelda. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tapion_theBrave
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 11, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  dont get me wrong i was happy with the game............ for a few days. after awhile it repeats 
 the process jump here grab this jump stomp here. it saddens me that nintendo didnt do a better 
 job on the creative side. the levels are creative but the story? come on, it seems that princess 
 peach is always getting kidnapped every time a super mario comes out. i was hoping the story would 
 change but it never does and thats what pisses me off about nintendo is that there best character 
 has been playing the same note for 20 years. they need to change the story. plus the clunky camera 
 angles will piss you off. the look was good and moving from planet to planet in some levels was 
 cool but it wasnt enough to win me over. sorry nintendo fan boys with the same story and crappy 
 camera controls its a rent. the game was WAY over rated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tireyo643
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is a game that definitely lives up to its standards. I do wish that the game 
 could have been more difficult to beat, but in no way this game should be ignored by any. Super 
 Mario Galaxy has what it takes to change the concept of games in a whole new way. The levels in 
 this game is expertly and intelligently designed to make it feel like you're in some kind of dream. 
 It's a shame that a Mario game such as this could have been an inspiration to the track lay-outs 
 in Mario Kart Wii. Anyway, I give Super Mario Galaxy a superb rating of 9.5. As always, I like 
 to comment about the music in a game and I can sum it up into a few adjectives: Cinematic, Haunting, 
 Powerful, and Space-like (! of course!) . You'll be very sad if you beat this game because it might 
 be hard for some to come back to play this game again. 
  
  As a memory of Super Mario Galaxy and the many other games that we come to cherish and enjoy, take 
 a visit to VGMusic. com to listen to music completely dedicated to video games. Keep in mind that 
 you won't get what you want by typing what you want to listen to by typing the name of the song 
 or system in the search box.-THAT IS A MOUTHFUL TO SAY!! Use the section and music menu on the 
 main screen. I hope that you will enjoy VGMusic. com just as I have. (I do not help re-create music, 
 I just listen) Keep in mind that some of the music is corny and bad, you just have to find the 
 good ones! 
  
  Well, I'll end this review with these final words-GO GO MARIO!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Derekgilreath93
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2008 6:44 am PT
Review:  Its Mario, on the Wii, in outerspace! this is a must have game for anyone who has a Wii, and I 
 would by a Wii just for this game. the game is totally original I wonder who thoght of putting 
 Mario in space! well who ever it was is a genius. Super Mario galaxy is the third installment of 
 the 3D Mario Series the others being Super Mario 64 and Super Mario sunshine. the obgect of the 
 game is to go through galaxy's to collect power stars and if you enough power stars you will get 
 a grand star and you need 7 grand stars just to beat the game, and that takes, I'd say 72 hours 
 strate, just to beat the game! and if you want to collect every single power star it will take 
 you a long time, in a good way so you never get bored of the game. Another thing about this game 
 is it brings back memory's of old-school Mario games, this game is great in every way graphics 
 are amazing beautiful sound and music by Koji Kondo. The story is great and the length of the game 
 is perfect. You will never get tired of this game I never did and I highly recommend it for all 
 you gamers out there. I Play it till I beat I did not eat or sleep and not even took a bath JK 
 i did eat. LOL Thei is a totle or 121 stars to get so have fun. ; )
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiiGamer101
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Now this is reference for all NintendoFan's thats a big fan of Mario. This game shows how 1-player 
 game should be maid. This is Super Mario Galaxy. All fans that have played Super Mario 64, Super 
 Mario 64 DS, and Super Mario Sunshine, this might be the game for you. This game has a beautiful 
 texture and next gen fill to it. This game shows that this is a Nintendo game. Ok, now this story 
 take place were Peach sends Mario a message to invite him to the star festival, when are hero gets 
 there another encounter occurs, the infiendess Bowser appears sweeping over the fields of the star 
 festival leaving everyone in parrel, and now Mario rushes towards the Mushroom Castle then Mario 
 meets up with Peach barely inches away but Bowser summons and blasts him away to orbit while he 
 takes Peach, along with the castle, away. Now Mario needs to stop him alongside him with a little 
 help a mysterious bean name Rosalina and Luna inorder to collect the Grand Stars and save all the 
 Galaxies and Princess Peach. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendokid4
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  BUY/RENT/AVOID: This game is a must-BUY for any gamer. If you don't have a Wii- buy one, and make 
 sure you pick up a copy of Super Mario Galaxy.
  
  PROS: Great gameplay, graphics, and difficulty level. This game is as close to perfect as possible.
 
  CONS: The story is not as great as it could be. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: Where can I begin? First of all, Super Mario Galaxy is the best game I've ever played. 
 Let me expand on that by saying this gameplay cannot be compared to any game. Nothing you've ever 
 played can make you truly understand what I talk of. This game is something you have to experience 
 for yourself. The new installment in the Mario franchise displays something very unique in games: 
 varying degrees of gravity. Each degree of gravity differs between levels and adds something new 
 to each one. There are stages in which you leap from one gravitational pull to the next and end 
 up orbiting around a small planet until finally descending onto its surface. This new factor enhances 
 your experience as you navigate the familiar Mario platforming elements. 
  The characters we all know and love have all returned in the latest chapter of Nintendo's prize 
 boy's saga, and they are all centered on the quest of Mario, which is accomplished using the seamless 
 control scheme. Maneuvering the man in red quickly becomes second nature, which allows you to hop 
 from planet to planet as easily as turning on the console. The game focuses on collecting stars, 
 a familiar concept, and traveling to different galaxies. Only 60 stars are needed to complete the 
 game, but for the hardcore gamers looking for a challenge, there are a total of 120 stars (actually 
 121 but it is extra) . To obtain these mystical stars, you enter different galaxies, all with their 
 own unique properties and features, and complete levels. When I first bought this game, I thought 
 that all of the platforming was to be done on small planets, but, as the game showed me, a good 
 portion of the journey is done on bigger planets. 
  Also there are now more power ups that are added to the Nintendo arsenal. I will only lightly touch 
 on these due to space constraint. First, there is the Bee suit, which works effectively and is 
 useful for only the designated levels. It lets you fly and cling to honeycomb walls. Rainbow Mario 
 means invincibility- 'nough said! Boo Mario allows you to pass through walls as adorable ghost 
 Mario. Ice Mario, in my opinion, is the coolest power up because it allows you to skate on water 
 and create tiles of ice. Also, it plays a key role in many puzzles. Fire Mario is familiar and 
 lets you shoot fireballs from your hands. And Spring Mario helps you to reach new heights by bouncing 
 you around the sky. This is the weakest of the suits because it does not work as well as it should.
 
  I apologize for the disappointing gameplay information, but I find it difficult to describe every 
 element of this game in one page. If you haven't taken my word for it already, I implore you to 
 at once and urge you to go buy the game now. Do not rent it. Buy it! You will not regret it. WARNING: 
 This game may induce spontaneous outburst of amazement.
  
  GRAPHICS: Never before has the Wii been host to stunning graphics such as these. The visuals rival 
 those of most Xbox 360 games- I do not exaggerate. Whether it is the shimmering of distant stars, 
 the brilliant fur of gargantuan bumble bees, or the bubbling of raging lava, this game is bursting 
 with vibrant colors and vivid textures. The famous plumber definitely cleaned up good for his appearance 
 on the Wii, a console that no one expected top notch visuals from. This defiant display of the 
 concept "anything you can do I can do better" was never more received by the gaming industry then 
 it was when Super Mario Galaxy launched. Yet, aside from graphics, this game possesses a spectacular 
 soundtrack to boot. The beautifully orchestrated tunes complement the stellar visuals and provide 
 an almost orgasmic auditory pleasure. Still, this game's main focus is its gameplay, but it doesn't 
 hurt to look nice once and a while. 
  
  STORY: With all Mario games there comes a lack of a real "meaty" story. But, while the story may 
 be thin, it is fitting to Super Mario Galaxy. The story translates well to outer space: Bowser 
 steals Peach and Mario must get her back. Yep. That's it. Yet, I find it delightfully charming 
 because it is Nintendo tradition and it never gets old. It's the classic story of good and evil! 
 What more could you want?
  
  REPLAY VALUE: After completing the game with 60 stars, there is still half of the game to go. The 
 last 60 are also more difficult to acquire than the first 60. I have completed the game 100% and 
 have found myself being urged to play it again. Once I find the time, I can guarantee I will relive 
 the experience. Of course, it is a platforming/adventure game, so there is a slightly lower replay 
 value than games from other genres. 
  
  FINAL REMARKS: Super Mario Galaxy is a tremendous step forward in gaming, and I can only imagine 
 that other developers are looking to bank on the success of the latest installment and follow its 
 example. While this is encouraging, I find it hard to believe that they will be able to, because 
 there will never be a game that compares to this revolutionary title. I have already stated that 
 this is my favorite game, and I know that it will be yours too if you let it. Don't hesitate to 
 buy it, because with astounding gameplay, breathtaking visuals, and the most original concept to 
 ever hit the gaming industry, Super Mario Galaxy is an essential part of every gamer's collection. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoasterFanatic
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy has the norm of the Mario games, save the princess and defeat Bowser but it 
 also takes you on a whole new adventure in space! Bowser kidnaps Peach and invites her to join 
 his whole new Galaxy. He then blasts you off to space and you land on a remote planet. The point 
 of the game is of course to save Peach but also to gather stars in the distant galaxies you travel 
 to. By finding these stars you help rebuild and light up the Comet Observatory which is your base. 
 The graphics in this game are the best the wii has to offer with crisp details and color you be 
 immersed into this magical world. The story line is sub-par with small cutscenes scattered across 
 the game. Change outfits with Bee Mario, Boo Mario, Rainbow Mario, and Fire Mario. So Super Mario 
 Galaxy gets a 10, out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad4Midna
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  this game is awesome in many different ways. the music sound track is awesome and impossible to 
 ignore. just listen! how good is that? well, anyway back to the game. It has a very good story line, 
 And very fun Galaxies you can go to such as, loop-de-loop Galaxy, ( or whatever its called ) And 
 have a lot of fun. i like how they made rosalina, because she is good with the story line. i also 
 like how she is a playable character in mario kart wii. i think the animals they made such as the 
 bunny and the lumas, were an incredibly cute idea. I also like the reference to luigi's mancion 
 ( is that spelled right? ) and also that you can be luigi after you beat the game with mario. Luigi 
 is nice enogh to go out and help you find stars. well, you get the point. i really love this game 
 and so should you. but we all have our opinions about this game. well, bye! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePrince8605
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  If you like to have fun, Super Mario Galaxy is the game for you! Everything from start to finish 
 is pure fun! The graphics are absolutely beautiful, the artistic design is even better. This proves 
 that Nintendo still has what it takes to make a great Mario game. 
  
  The Gameplay is top notch! There are many Interesting and unique puzzles and platforming sections 
 for you to go through, including classic 2d sections. All of the galaxies have their own flair, 
 complete with a boss for each worl, resulting in many epic boss fights. 
  
  A disappointment in previous 3d Mario games to me was not havoing enough powers, this is not the 
 case for Super Mario Galaxy. The Bee suit, Boo suit, and ice suit all ad their own original platforming 
 elements, there are a few returning powers as well, like the fire flower and power star. 
  
  With this games great graphics, levels, gameplay, and bosses, this is one title you should 
 not pass up!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledzep1959
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is a perfect game that will occupy for hours and hours. The graphics for one, 
 are colorful, bright, and even on a non HD TV, are unbelievable. Its a lot of fun. There are (i 
 think) about 120 stars. It plays differently than all of the other Super Mario games. Depending 
 on what galaxy you travel too (too many to count) it plays differently, For example, there may 
 be shifts of gravity, so you play the game upside down until you walk into a place that shifts 
 the gravity the the left, so you play the game running up and down a wall until you walk into another 
 zone, etc, until the level is done. But some levels just play normally, running around and such. 
 But it plays like a dream. Levels are extremely innovative, superb graphics, and a simple plot 
 that you just don't give a crap about. This is a perfect 10 game that you can't miss. A must buy 
 for anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GearsOfWarLover
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  First when i saw the game it looked kind of boring because the controls just don't look that good. 
 But when i picked it up It was good. the first few stars that u had to get was kind of boring but 
 it gets really good. I had a lot of fun playing this game and right now its my favorite wii title. 
 sure its not fun picking up the little stars with the wii mote because u have to aim, but when 
 your near one of those stars that transport you too another planet its cool how he fly through 
 the air. I would say this is a must have title for wii owners. I'm not a big wii person but this 
 game has really made my wii purchase worth it. I would say get through the first part really quickly 
 because its not that fun, but when u get to the Fountain part which is the 2nd area you will have 
 a blast through the 2nd part of the game till the end. The only thing i wish Super Mario games 
 would have is a better plot because the story in this game is forgettable like all other super 
 Mario games. (Except for Sunshine it was decent) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkothephenom
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Super mario Galaxy Was nintendos big mario game for the Wii. Actually I feel they actually have 
 a right to say that this time. Since Sunshine was such a let down its great to see that this game 
 is so great
  
  So to start off this is quite revolutionary but its still the same mario formula. You will have 
 a HUB and then you jus go to each level like you would in any other 3D mario game. Accept now you 
 are in a space so that really gives the game a great estetic look. 
  
  Speaking of how the game looks it is to say that this is the best looking wii game. Not just from 
 a technical level because it looks good on a technical level but in speaking on an artistic level 
 the game just plain looks so amazing. Everything from the planets to mario to all of the environment 
 everything is just rich in color and has so much personality. The character models also look really 
 good as they are beautifully colorful and full of detail.
  
  Now this is kind of the same typical mario story. The story starts out in the annual mushroom festival 
 and everything is all good and nothing could go bad. All of a sudden bowser comes and Kidnaps princess 
 peach then you as mario must go and rescue her. Yeah it is a typical Mario storyline but what is 
 interesting is that Bowser takes her into space and then mario goes chasing after and then ending 
 up on a weird planet. I dont want to ruin anything else but then you meet rosalina so it is a nice 
 change of pace.
  
  The Sound in the game is just top notch. FIrst off the soundtrack is just so great. Everything 
 from the new material to the retro music is just so well done that you would be wishing that there 
 was a soundtrack. The sounds overall in the game are quite good. All of the enemies and other sound 
 effects do sound good so its definetely does not get in the way.
  
  But the real appeal is that this is a mario game and it adds a lot of nostolgia for older players 
 but adds on a great new style that will appeal to just about anyone. The fact that they threw in 
 all of the nostolgia from the retro music to the Amazing 2D platforming segments are just stunning 
 and add onto the games style.
  
  The big gimmick in this Mario game is the addition of the new gravity system. Now when you jump 
 form mini planet to another mini planet the gracity will lift you onto the other planets and it 
 is so satisfying. It works so well and they even take advantage of this great gameplay in the 2D 
 segments which is a blast to use. Also Mario has suits like in Super mario brothers 3. Some of 
 them are retro like the fire suit mario and a version of the flying cap, but the new ones are especially 
 enjoyable with ice mario ( he can walk on water) and bee mario which is pretty cool
  
  Till about now all of the 3D marios in concept controlled all of the same. This one is quite similar 
 as the same jumping mechanics apply to all of the flat land platforming which is always solid. 
 With the inclusion of the wiimote and nuchucks they do add to the gameplay but dont get in the 
 way of the traditional platforming. Using the wiimote you will be waggling it to do his new spin 
 attack or pointing at the screen to collect star pieces. and their will be other instances such 
 as controlling a stingray by tilting the wiimote all of theses instances feel great and dont feel 
 needlessly tacked on like other games
  
  So Mario galaxy isnt too revolutionary but offers so much in gameplay and amazing style. Mario 
 has had good games but this mario take 3D mario games to another level. With great graphics and 
 gamplay to add to the games sound design and controls everything in mario galxy works well and 
 this is a game that is truly worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin091
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 4:24 am PT
Review:  In a nutshell: Branded by most as the best Mario game in years, Super Mario Galaxy exceeds my expectations 
 and presents itself with tight gameplay and controls, beautiful graphics, and superb production 
 values.
  
  I haven't had the chance to play what they say is the defining platformer of the 90's- Super Mario 
 64- but at least I was lucky enough to play Super Mario Galaxy for the Wii instead of the critically 
 panned Super Mario Sunshine from the last console generation. And when you see a classic, you just 
 know it's a classic.
  
  "Inventive" kidnap
  When you start a new game, the title presents you with information regarding this certain "Star 
 Festival" which is held every 1000 years and now, Mario is going near the Mushroom Kingdom's castle 
 to take part in that specific festival. However, Bowser is back and he just can't resist kidnapping 
 the Princess Peach and giving Mario his purpose in life. But it's not any ordinary kidnapping, 
 he gets a huge crane of sorts and lifts the castle out of the ground and into outerspace and Mario 
 gets dragged into some other planet.
  
  Cheating on Peach
  Mario then meets the mother of the so-called Lumas- Rosalina- and she tasks him with collecting 
 the so-called Power Stars to generate the lost electricity of her starship. As Mario collects more 
 Power Stars for Rosalina- no, they don't fall in love- Mario just gets closer to the center of 
 the universe to where his sweet Princess is, along with her kidnapper.
  
  Graphics
  If you ask me, despite the release of Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Super Mario Galaxy's graphics are 
 still the one to beat, and it proves that if you don't underestimate the Wii's power, you can cook 
 up something that could look and feel next-generation. See the cover art? It's how the graphics 
 in-game looks like.
  
  The cutscenes aren't pre-rendered either and use the game's majestic in-game engine so that everything 
 has a uniform feel- and I actually like it this way because it feels very epic and breathtaking. 
 
  
  Gameplay
  In a Mario game, story isn't important, it's the gameplay.
  
  You use the Wiimote and Nunchuk to control Mario. The analog stick of the Nunchuk is obviously 
 for movement, the Z trigger for crouching, the A button in the Wiimote is still jump, the B button 
 underneath shoots Star Bits to stun enemies or feed Hungry Lumas, and shaking the controller makes 
 Mario do a Spin Attack or transport himself to another part of the galaxy by way of Star Cannons.
 
  
  The controls are very accessible, intuitive and easy yet tight, and it just feels right.
  
 
  Besides the controls, the levels themselves could initially be too easy, and suddenly they can 
 get very maddeningly difficult, especially in some of the coin-collecting variations of a few levels. 
 Yeah, you could be laughing right now, because... it's coin collecting for crying out loud! Yeah, 
 you're gonna say that now, but when you play some of those levels, you'll never view coin collecting 
 quests the same ever again.
  
  The levels, nonetheless, have some of the best level design ever found in any 3D platformer ever, 
 if not genius, because it plays with aspects of gravity, physics, and a lot of other things.
  
  Sound
  The game has a legendary soundtrack and features a mix of new content and nostalgic 
 ditties. Now, however, most of them are orchestrated (and sometimes, there's also a synth here 
 and there) . I have nothing else to say about its audio because it's just so damn great.
  
  Value
  It depends on you. Me? Well, I could claim all 120 stars again using Luigi to unlock a 
 bonus galaxy but... I don't know. Maybe another time.
  
  Transformations
  The new transformations in this edition of Mario include the cute Bee Mario costume which enables 
 you to fly for a specific period of time, the Boo Mario costume which- when you shake the Wiimote- 
 lets you pass through certain walls and attract fellow ghosts, and Spring Mario which lets you 
 jump really high.
  
  They surprisingly mesh well with the older costumes, which are equally cool with Ice Mario making 
 water into ice, Fire Mario shootinh fire when you shake the Wiimote (and melts snowmen) , Rainbow 
 Mario rendering Mario invinsible to anything (except holes) and a lot more.
  
  Cons
  It's not all perfect. Swimming, despite likewise tight controls, sucks anyway, although there is 
 not much requirement to do that except if you're the so-called completist. Another aspect that 
 needs improvement is Spring Mario: if you want to go to a precise spot, it's kinda hard, and well, 
 the jumping just never stops!
  
  Plus, when you quit to the title screen, no matter how many lives you accumulate, your lives always 
 get reset to merely 4. Yeah, it's in the manual but come on, who reads it?
  
  Overall
  Despite those problems, they're fairly minor compared to the game as a whole.
  
  If you're 
 still in doubt as to whether you'll want to get Super Mario Galaxy or not, you shouldn't be! It's 
 a FREAKING CLASSIC, no contest!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathew_vartuli
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2008 10:50 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best mario games that has ever been created. The stroyline is pretty simple, 
 Bowser takes Peach and Mario come and rescues her. Even though the game has the same storyline, 
 is a whole new story. Bowser travels to the galaxy and mario follows. To save Peach, Mario must 
 go to all different galaxy to collect stars. This isn't your typical game, whenn you finigh it 
 in one day. It you wanted to complete SMG, you would need to collect 120 stars, which takes a while. 
 The graphics are some of the best graphics created on the Wii, knowing that the wii can have some 
 crap graphics. This game is the ultimate mario game. The learning curve takes no longer than 20 
 minutes to get the feel of it. Bosses at the end are exciting and entertaining. A great new feature 
 to Mario's sequel, more boss fights. This will be a great game to play and probably the game to 
 play until Mario Smash Brawl comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JynXcat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  What else could possibly explain this game... Wii's second wind, Wii's finest yet. Some people say 
 that Wii has been a let down, but after this; I'm thinking that if they played it; they would have 
 a second opinion. This is fenominal, i recomend this for all gamers! You'll aboslutely love it, 
 if your a classic mario fan for the win, or a halo player. This game fits gamers of all ages, now 
 thats a compliment. so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so GO BUY IT NOW!!!!!!!!
 
  
  What else could possibly explain this game... Wii's second wind, Wii's finest yet. Some people say 
 that Wii has been a let down, but after this; I'm thinking that if they played it; they would have 
 a second opinion. This is fenominal, i recomend this for all gamers! You'll aboslutely love it, 
 if your a classic mario fan for the win, or a halo player. This game fits gamers of all ages, now 
 thats a compliment. so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so GO BUY IT NOW!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frob1965
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is definitely the best addition to the Super Mario series. The basic game play 
 has a great feel and almost anyone can play and enjoy it. The graphics are amazing for a Mario 
 game. The storyline is a heck of a lot better than Super Mario Sunshine. The music and other audio 
 effects are great two. My 6 year-old cousins played it and loved it. The final Bowser battle could 
 be a bit more challenging but the game is pretty average on easy to hard. I was really disappointed 
 with the grand finally galaxy, it only takes you two the outside of the castle and your done it 
 should take u into the castle to meet peach. Anyway nintendo should make a sequel. In the sequal 
 they should start you were you got the star in grand finally galaxy. This is an amazing game and 
 a Wii must have even if you dont like the Mario series, and if you dont like it, learn to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xalenite
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  Mario has been running around and jumping on things for decades now. On paper, that type of gameplay 
 seems really shallow. Simple? Yes. Boring? Far from it. In Super Mario Galaxy, you traverse many 
 planets to obtain stars. The things you experience to get those stars are simply phenomenal. You've 
 never had this much fun with gravity before. This game has to be played to truly understand the 
 genius. I guarantee that you've never had this much fun jumping around. 
  
  Graphics:
  
  This game is simply beautiful. The art style in Galaxy is just outstanding. These simple shapes 
 and colors are brought to life with the creative artists from Nintendo. The only downside in the 
 graphics are the jaggies. But even with those, the game is still very visually appealing. 
  
  Sound:
  
  Outside of Mario's traditional "wahoo", this game has a SUPERB soundtrack. Every 
 song in this game is orchestrated beautifully. Some songs will make you turn the volume all the 
 way up and will actually be stuck in your head after turning off the game. It's AMAZING.
  
  Value:
  
  Ths game will take a good amount of time to finish. It will take you hours to complete 
 the game fully. The quest to get every single star is quite entertaining and the levels are actually 
 fun to replay again.
  
  Overall:
  
  This game is simply the best game for the Wii. Mario has always defined the platforming genre and 
 this installment is no different. The game alone is worth purchasing a Wii for. It's THAT good. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lynchjuk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  I have only just played this masterpiece and I am sorry it's taken me so long to do so. I have 
 always loved mario games from the first SMB on the nes through to New super Mario Brother on the 
 DS. Super Mario Brothers 3 is one of my all time best games. 
  
  This reminds me so much of Mario 64 but out of this world, 
  
  The level design is made of 
 dreams and for the music, well it can only be described as epic. If you own a wii you owe it to 
 yourself to play this game even if you don't like mario (can't think of anyone who does not?) .
 
  
  Nintendo did a great with the graphics, mario controls as you would expect, tight. If you love 
 Mario 64 but were left asking questions after Mario Sunshine on the gamecube then those doubts 
 can vanish into the stars because this game takes you there.
  
  Feel the greatest, feel the Mario experience and live the hype this game is the bomb.
  
  respect 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crszn962015
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  If I had to say if the was 3D or not, I would say it is 4D, not 3D, Mario hopping from planet to 
 planet, seems to be 4D. Mario has shown great improvement from previous games. The graphics are 
 better than the series has ever been. The stars are actually golden this time, not yellow like 
 in Super Mario 64. The background looks so real, Mario is the opposite of pixelated. Although the 
 graphics look cartoony, Mario is supposed to be that way, as with most Wii games.
  The gameplay is like never before. New moves, bigger levels, and 121 stars are reasons the game 
 is recieving very high ratings and even is an editors choice. I have never played a platformer 
 with much as Super Mario Galaxy. I would say this is the best platformer on the Wii.
  The soundtrack is also worth listening to, and music from this game is frequently stuck in my head. 
 Plus Catchy sound effects that match perfectly with what is happening while playing.
  The game is of high value and costs $49.99 like many other Wii games. Seriously, Although it may 
 cost 50 dollars it is definitely still worth buying. Could this possibly be the best Wii game made? 
 Overall: very excellent platformer, buy it. Best platformer of 2007.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Tweedy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  Yeah. All that good stuff that everybody else said about Mario Galaxy? It's all true. That game 
 is a masterpiece of whimsy and wonder. You can tell that this was a labor of love for Nintendo. 
 They poured their all into and that effort shows through in every one of the creative, beautiful 
 and super-fun levels.
  
  This is one of the very few games that gives you the same feeling as reading a great fantasy book. 
 It makes its own rules, and even though the rules are crazy, they're self-consistent enough that 
 everything pulls together and makes a weird sort of sense. You feel sucked into the world so that 
 part of wishes it was really real and all of you is sad when it's over.
  
  One of the greatest games ever made.
  
  That was really all I wanted to say, but the site informs 
 me that I need more letters, so here's a word to all of you developers who make crap for the Wii 
 or who say that the Wii isn't powerful enough to handle good games: You guys are just lazy. A game 
 is made great by the effort, creativity and passion that goes into it, not by how many polygons 
 the characters have. Stop making excuses for yourselves and make good Wii games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exe878
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2008 5:25 am PT
Review:  Amazing game. Nintendo was smart to try the idea of gravity based platforming. Gameplay never gets 
 old, and even after beating levels you may have to go back to complete more difficult versions 
 of levels. For instance you may have to re-visit a boss battle and conquer the boss without him 
 landing a single hit on you, or you may have to replay a level except this time with a shortened 
 time limit. Some levels have time based mini-games incorporated into them, such as one where you 
 have to surf through an insanely difficult course on a manta ray, or another where you have to 
 roll Mario across an obstacle course while atop a giant rolling ball. 
  Another feature they added in this game, the addition of powerups. Since they were so cool, I think 
 I'll explain them all. First is a Super Mario Bros. favorite, the fire flower. this item turns 
 mario's cap white and his overalls red, it also allows him to spawn fireballs from his fingertips, 
 this allows for some puzzle solving, and quick enemy dispatching. The next powerup is the ice flower. 
 This will turn mario into a frozen version of himself, and allow him to turn any liquid surface 
 to ice, there for allowing acess to previously un acessable areas of the galaxy. This next powerup 
 is pretty straightforward, the rainbow star. This powerup turns Mario invincible for a short amount 
 of time, this powerup is neseccary to kill seemingly undestructable enemys such as the chain chomp. 
 The next powerup is the energy mushroom, this item doesn't change mario's appearance lile the others, 
 but rather doubles his health gauge thus allowing him to take more punishment before dying. Another 
 powerup is the bee mushroom. This toadstool clads mario in a bee suit allowing him to fly short 
 distances, land on surfaces he would normally fall through, and cling to certain walls. One more 
 powerup is the boo mushroom. This shroom turns mario into a ghost sporting a mario cap. In this 
 form mario can float around freely, and phase through walls. The final powerup is the red star. 
 When mario grabs this item he dons a black cap and red overalls, and is granted the ability to 
 fly as long as desired untill the powerup wares off.
  
  Even after you complete the game with all 150 stars, in order to keep you playing the game switches 
 over to Super Luigi Galaxy. In this mode you must replay the game as Luigi. Now, while many may 
 be thinking "Well that sucks, I have to play the whole game over again?" You are wrong, while yes 
 the general outlook of each of the levels remains the same, they are more difficult due to Luigi's 
 differing attributes from Mario. Just think of it as a hard mode, something we don't get too often 
 anymore.
  
  Gameplay: New and innovative platforming that never gets old.
  
  Graphics: Environment textures are much more phenominal than the characters, but nevertheless some 
 of the best the Wii has seen, second to only Metroid Prime 3: Corruption.
  
  Price: Around $50 and worth every cent.
  
  So, yeah If you're only going to play one gravity 
 based, galaxy hopping platformer featuring a short chubby plummer in a red cap this year, this 
 is the game for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokokrema94
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Oh my god this game is just so great!!! Super Mario Galaxy has the best graphics on the wii (with 
 metroid) The controls work really well and feel satisfying. There is a lot of variety in the level 
 design from galaxies based on ice or fire to galaxies based on beaches, toys ,etc. It's also a 
 really original game, with the gravity thing, and all the other stuff. Every galaxy has a lot of 
 planets where you can explore , the game can be pretty challenging sometimes, but it isn't too 
 hard either. The sountrack is awesome, a great part of the songs are made from classic Mario tunes. 
 There are a total of 120 stars and the game has a lot of replayability, the new suits of Mario 
 are awesome like when you transform into a ghost or a bee, but I didn't like the spring suit because 
 you're always bouncing, but you'll get used to it. What more can I say? It's really awesome. Super 
 Mario Galaxy is an awesome game and any wii owner should not miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tavares17
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2008 7:55 am PT
Review:  I've had a wii for a while now and I got Super mario Galaxy a while ago too but il still make my 
 review on it. Super Mario Galaxy is really good it has great music, it's a great platformer, Some 
 really fun levels and bosses. Some of the newer features in the series this time is boo mario, 
 bee mario, and Spring Mario. There all so fun to use and help you complete the game. There also 
 lots of collectibles to unlock like.. Some new galaxies having more levels in them so you can have 
 more fun, An actual character ( wont mention) and many other things. I really did enjoy playing 
 this game it's fun, it has a great story and I suggest any wii owner get this game it's worth the 
 money you won't regret it. But if you're not too sure on buying rent it first it's still will be 
 fun but i suggest you buy it, it's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toon_Link87
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is considered by many to be the best game for the Wii right now for many good 
 reasons. One its fun to play, two the controls are great and easy to use, three the graphics are 
 some of the best seen so far, and four its a long game that doesn''t get old.
  
  In the game Princess Peach gets kidnapped again by Bowser, but instead of taking her back to his 
 castle, Bowser takes her into space. This means that Mario must travel through space and explore 
 many galaxies to find the Princess. In his travels, Mario makes new friends and now he must help 
 them collect power stars in order for his new friends to take him to Princess Peach.
  
  The galaxies that Mario travels to make up the stages in which he has to find the power stars, 
 much like the worlds that were in the wall paintings in Super Mario 64. Each galaxy is beautiful, 
 and most have unique themes like being a galaxy made up of toys, a haunted galaxy full of ghosts, 
 or a galaxy full of bees. Each level is greatly designed and its fun to run around these levels 
 and discover whats inside of them. There are many galaxies to play which keeps this game enjoyable.
 
  
  Controlling Mario has never been easier. You use the nunchuck and Wii remote together, the nunchuck 
 used to control where Mario walks and the Wii remote to make Mario jump and perform other actions. 
 In this game Mario can swim, jump, climb, and use special suits like in the older Mario games and 
 it controls a lot like Mario 64, which had really great controls. Some Wii remote features have 
 also been added as well, like using the pointer to collect star bits and shaking the Wii remote 
 to use Mario's spin attack. To get some stars you will have to use the Wii remote in other ways 
 too, like moving Mario while he is on a ball by tilting the Wii remote. Most of Mario's power ups 
 are also easy to control.
  
  Another aspect of the gameplay that makes the game even better is the gravity. While in different 
 galaxies you will have some crazy gravity and be able to walk on what appears to be ceilings. This 
 allows you to explore more areas and solve some of the game's puzzles. It can provide you with 
 more of a challenge as well.
  
  Graphically this game is beautiful and may be the best looking game on the Wii right now. The worlds 
 are colorful and very detailed. The characters are also detailed and have great animation. The 
 art style is pleasant and really does help you enjoy the game even more. The camera is great and 
 hardly causes any trouble either. The music is also just as great as the graphics.
  
  At first this game does not start off that hard, but as you progress it does pick up and can get 
 even get frustrating at times. With over 120 stars to collect this game should keep you busy for 
 awhile if you try to collect them all. The game also has great replay value which will make this 
 game easily worth 50 dollars.
  
  Overall I would say that this is the best 3D Mario game since Mario 64, which is saying a lot. 
 If you want a good fun game that everyone could enjoy I recommend that you buy this game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathHeart95
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  This game was awesome. The gameplay made very good use of the Wii-mote, using it just enough so 
 that it doesn't feel like just another platformer, but not so much that your arms are sore from 
 flinging them back and forth. The best use of the Wii-mote excluding Wii Sports and Boom Blox so 
 far. It really should be a standard on how to use the Wii-mote in platforming.
  
  However, the one draw from this game is that it is REALLY easy. When I say easy, I mean so easy, 
 that you can start with 5 lives, and end up with upwards of 30 or even 40 by the end of the game. 
 There really isn't too much of a penalty for dying, considering you can just leave, grab an extra 
 life and do it again. If they had bumped up the difficulty, this might have been a 10 for me.
 
  
  They do a decent job with replay-ability. You need 60 stars to beat the game, but you can get a 
 total of around 240 (120 with Mario and 120 as Luigi) throughout the entire game. Luigi doesn't 
 handle much different from Mario, except that he slides a lot more when running and he jumps higher. 
 It adds a little replay-ability, but after a while, you just feel like you're playing the same 
 game again.
  
  Now for the graphics. They were fantastic, considering that this is the Wii and not the PS3. The 
 opening scene looks about as realistic as it possibly can considering that this is a game with 
 a giant talking turtle. Nice lighting and textures, which really stand out during the cutscenes, 
 although during gameplay it doesn't look quite as nice, but still really good. I personally think 
 that Twilight Princess had better graphics, but that has humans in it, not a cartoonish Mario figure.
 
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Replay-ability: 7
  Graphics: 9
  Overall (Not an average) : 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingOfOdanata
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Graphics-9
  The scenery is amazing. Textures are very well developed to help you get the feel of each planet. 
 Really smooth looking as well with only minimal edges.
  Sound-8.5
  Music fits each level wonderfully and its also really nice to hear renditions of old Mario tunes, 
 especially if you're a fan of those 8-bit wonders.
  Story-7
  Like almost all Mario games available, the story revolves around rescuing Peach. And other than 
 that, isn't really all that strong. The development of how and why you're in space is interesting, 
 but it itself does not have much depth. Of course. each stage seems to have a bit of its own story 
 from the interesting way each is developed.
  Gameplay-9.5
  The gameplay is outstanding. The controls work nicely, very few errors there. A few times the camera 
 may get goofy on you but that is seldom and sometimes actually fits the idea of running around 
 the planets.
  The game's concept is great and was really well developed. Each universe is distinct from each 
 other and allows for alot of different gameplay. Like old Mario games, even though you may not 
 unlock much, the replay is great just because of the challenge and the sheer fun in the games.
 
  One of my favorite things right now in the game are the Daredevil comets. The bosses themselves 
 seem easy, although they progressively do get harder. But, with only one life, it makes the battle 
 all that more interesting. It really puts you into a position of skill. Oh, the bosses are very 
 intriguing. They're each unique from each other and alot of fun to fight. My favorite so far is 
 Bouldergeist, although I really like the mole.
  
  It has been a long while since I have been part of the Nintendo franchise. I've messed around with 
 gamecube and 64 but never played them extensively. The last system I really got into was the SNES, 
 which to me has the most classic games. I'm a huge Donkey Country fan. As a result of low money, 
 I my Wii for over a week with only Wii Sports to play, which gets really dull by yourself. SM Galaxy 
 was my first real game for the Wii and I'm glad it is. It is a blast to play and wil be fun to 
 play again down the road. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Sphere-
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 24, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  As of now, the Wii game library is pretty bad with very few good titles and a whole load of shovelware. 
 But Super Mario Galaxy, also known as SMG (which is kind of ironic since this one of the most tame 
 games one will play) is a game that stands out from the rest of the junk, but still has some similarities 
 that bring it right back down to the same level as the shovelware. 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in SMG are some of the best you will find on the Wii now and probably ever since it 
 pushes the Wii to the limit of what it can do. But, compared to today's standard the graphics are 
 only average. The only issues with the graphics is that they are, at times, too good for the Wii 
 to handle and noticeable framerate drops can occur. The game is very colourful and makes it have 
 a very happy and inviting environment for the young gamers as well as the older gamers.
  
  Sound:
  Like almost every other Nintendo games, SMG lack voice acting. Mario has already been 
 given a voice that suits him well in the Super Mario Bros. cartoon as well as the rest of the other 
 characters. Why Nintendo didn't decide to go with voice acting to help the younger player who are 
 unable to read and make the game more fun for the older gamers I don't know. But over that fact, 
 most of the sounds are fun and exciting and help build the atmosphere. The music in this game is 
 topnotch, but if listened to carefully hints of previous Nintendo songs can be heard making the 
 music lack originality at times.
  
  Gameplay:
  Any game can have good graphics and sounds but it is gameplay that makes them stand out above the 
 rest. SMG didn't do it at all. The game revolves are collecting stars just like in every other 
 3D Mario game. There is no originality there or in the overall plot. The plant system that was 
 used in the game makes it suffer from the appearance and feel on an incredibly small land. The 
 gravity system is very interesting, but the camera system was unable to keep up with it resulting 
 in some terrible camera angles and possible motion sickness. The game has the Mario feel, but feels 
 just like ever other Mario game I have played making it a disappointment.
  
  Multiplayer:
  When I heard that SMG was going to have a co-op mode for the single player I was 
 very excited but what was got was less than fun. One player controls Mario and has all the fun, 
 the other gets to point the Wiimote at the screen and press a button to make Mario jump or shoot 
 stars. The co-op was a real let down and actually detracted from the overall gameplay during the 
 game because the player who didn't control Mario would just point and click to make him jump at 
 inappropriate time to add some humor and make their time not a complete waste.
  
  Other Comments:
  While I did have some fun with the game I had to force myself to finish it and 
 get the less than special finish. The fights against Bowser were boring and repetitive and added 
 nothing to the game. The game tired to be too much like Super Mario 64 but couldn't and made a 
 fool of itself. Also, the lack of replay value for the game made it lose some points aswell.
  
  Final score 8.0/10. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: keit14atom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  A great game for the Wii. It reminds me off the classic 64 game. This game would make an amazing 
 addition to anyones game collection. It has a great classic soundtrack that goes along with the 
 fun game-play. Its definitely worth it and anyone that doesnt have it should get it. Lots of fun 
 levels that are purely addicting that also have a good story to go along with it. It has good graphics, 
 an excellent game whether you are a mario fan or not. The suits that you use, like the bee, ice, 
 and, can sometimes be difficult to use but you get used to it as time goes by. The boss battles 
 are fun especially ones with bowser. The game has lots of great features and like some of the other 
 wii games it does not leave you extremely tired and drained of energy after playing the game. Still 
 very fun. Then again so are all mario games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LK9988
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  as soon as I heard that a new mario game was coming for wii, I buyed it straight away! and, it 
 was better than i expected! anyway, i'll break it down into sections.
  
  graphics: well, these grapics are amazing! probably the best on wii so far! 10/10
  
  gameplay: 
 a bit easy for a mario game but it is awesome! with the so many enemies and bosses to beat and 
 there's much to do after the main storyline too! 9/10
  
  sound: this probaly has the best mario soundtracks yet! short answer: good 10/10
  
  and the 
 list of good stuff goes on...
  
  well, you heard me this game is just sheer fun!!!!!!!!!!! buy it if you have a wii  
 and that's it people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DouglasBuffone
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Some people cried foul after the Wii launched without a Mario game, the first time in Nintendo's 
 history that this occurred. However, after the mediocre reception Super Mario Sunshine received, 
 Shigeru Miyamoto and the team at Nintendo promised to reinvigorate the franchise. Luckily, Nintendo 
 has kept its promise and brought a new Mario game that is completely fresh ---whether it be control 
 scheme, musical score or artistic design. The game keeps with the traditional Mario game structure 
 while the change of setting allows for an unprecedented imaginative world. While the Wii has preached 
 to the casual gamer, this is one of the first titles that really crosses into both casual and hardcore 
 gaming realms because it includes something that will appreciated by all. 
  
  Mario games are not known for their story -- something still apparent from the moment you begin to 
 play the game. Much like Super Mario 64, Princess Peach calls for Mario to come to her castle because 
 she has a gift to give to him. Upon his approach to the castle, Bowser, Mario's longtime nemesis, 
 attacks the Princess, Mario, and the ever present Toads with Peter Pan-like flying galleons. Before 
 Mario can catch up, Bowser and his minions jet away into space. 
  
  Mario comes into a contact with a cute star named Luna who then introduces him to the leader of 
 a flying observatory, Rosalina. Mario is filled in on the problems which have plagued the inhabitants 
 of the observatory and is promptly asked to assist in recovering the power stars that power their 
 spacecraft. Bowser has once again stolen the power stars and spread them through a variety of galaxies 
 so as to slow down his pursuers. Mario's principle mission is to recover enough power stars to 
 re-initiate the observatory's power. This task that seems to be daunting even for the famous Italian 
 plumber, and thus Rosalina instructs Luna to assist him during his quest. 
  
  The collection of power stars is nothing new, and could seem very unexciting to a veteran Mario 
 player. But then again, who plays Mario for the story? It is the brilliant efforts by the team 
 at Nintendo to redesign every world that Mario journeys to that makes the game really special. 
 One hardly has anytime to think about the repetitive nature of the storyline as the player is almost 
 immediately thrown into an amazing galaxy. 
  
  Every galaxy is made up into several planets, all of which have their own individual parts and 
 none of which you will see repeated. The level design in the game is one of the most, if not the 
 most, impressive ever seen in a video game. Once you think that you have seen it all, Mario will 
 land on a planet where he travels into the inside or travels into more traditional sidescroller 
 with freshening elements like changing gravity pads. These new elements make the gameplay more 
 challenging and thus really make the overall experience that much richer to any Mario veteran. 
 
  
  The way Mario travels between the planets is also unique and utilizes the motion sensing technology 
 in the Wii remote. Sometimes planets will be connected by a series of blue stars with which the 
 player can point the cursor at and then pull Mario along. This movement style is also worked into 
 several challenges at the end of the game that prove to be exhilarating. In addition to the blue 
 stars, Mario will often times find one of Luna friends who is desperately hungry and requires star 
 bits to transform into a launch pad to another planet. Star bits are another collectible in the 
 game in addition to the traditional coins. Whereas coins replenish Mario's depleted health, star 
 bits can be used to feed Luna's friends but can also be used to attack enemies. Luna's primary 
 function in the story is to serve as the pointer on the screen with which players can use to pick 
 up star bits and to aim star bit attacks. Of course she is also there to provide the much needed 
 moral guidance and explanation of puzzles. 
  
  One comes to appreciate the different level design through the exploration of the various galaxies. 
 Whereas in other games, players find that the search for the same item every level can be tedious, 
 in Super Mario Galaxy the design of the planets is so intriguing that players will find that they 
 explore every nook and cranny to discover every hidden area.
  
  To create even more diversity within the level design, Mario also is able to don different costumes 
 that will give him different powers. At his repertoire is the ability to change into a bee, springman 
 or a boo, the ability to throw fireballs, and the ability to turn into the ice man who freezes 
 any water that he walks upon. All of the different costumes add even more ways to explore the already 
 impressive worlds. However, some of the costumes evince some of the problems in the game. 
  
  One such problem is the camera. The player has very limited control of the camera as it is 
 usually fixed through the entirety of the adventure. This proves to be a problem in some of the 
 later stages when precise jumping is necessary, especially when trying to get several challenge 
 stars or when Mario turns into springman. It is noticeable at first when Mario runs on the underside 
 of a planet as the controls quickly switch and make circumnavigating a planet challenging. The 
 camera also makes the bee parts of the game unnecessarily difficult because it is often times hard 
 to judge whether Mario is above or close enough to a honeycomb to land. Luckily this is really 
 the only time the camera becomes a major issue in the gameplay and thus does not really make a 
 large impact on the overall experience. 
  
  
  Even if the camera sometimes proves to be difficult, the tight controls based off of the genre 
 defining Mario 64 setup are near perfect. Controlling Mario will be of no real challenge to experienced 
 players but is simple enough for the most casual of gamers to pick up and enjoy. The Wii remote 
 functionality is limited, something that proves to be beneficial. It is used for the aforementioned 
 traveling between planets and picking up star bits, but it is also utilized nicely into the combat. 
 By shaking the Wii remote, the player has the ability to do a spin attack which proves to be essential 
 in several boss battles and causes enemies to drop different items than through the traditional 
 jump-on-the-head method. 
  
  More importantly, the motion control functionality is used intermittently with various mini games 
 and thus do not become tiresome. When many Wii games go wrong with their inclusion of motion control 
 for every basic action, Super Mario Galaxy gets it right -- only using it for certain elements that 
 enhance, not detract, from the gameplay. 
  
  Combined with the gameplay and tight controls, the audio and graphical presentation really make 
 Super Mario Galaxy stand out from any other game available on the Wii. The game is simply the best 
 looking game from a graphical and an artistic standpoint as all of the worlds are intriguing while 
 made all the more interesting through the vibrant color pallet. Like the graphics, the audio is 
 one of the best found on the platform. The mix of classic and new sounds is a symmetry that is 
 phenomenal. Players will not only hear the classic Mario songs and their remixes, but also hear 
 fully orchestrated tracks that are memorable. 
  
  Super Mario Galaxy can be summed up by stating that it is a return to form. Not a form in the sense 
 of structure, but rather of feel. While playing this game one will surely notice that it is fun 
 and more importantly, different that everything else. The game includes many of the elements that 
 made previous Mario games so memorable while almost completely reinventing the experience due to 
 the new control scheme and the sensational level design. Nintendo's mascot has never been better, 
 and this adventure is not something anyone can afford to miss. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomguy15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Before Brawl came along I thought this was the game on the wii to beat. With it's great presentation, 
 great level design, and superb graphics. Super Mario Galaxy is a solid platformer and I would recommend 
 it to any Mario fans, even a newcomer. There's many stars to collect (120) and many galaxies to 
 explore, with 7 major regions. I was seriously considering giving this a 10 rating but there are 
 some minor issues such as: very little dialouge, I think it's time for nintendo to put more dialouge 
 in thier games. and as gamespot said the story doesen't tie up any loose ends. But overall the 
 cons are heavily outweighted by the pros. Super Mario Galxies soundtrack fits the game perfectly. 
 I honestly think that no matter who you are, you should play this game. I think it is barely better 
 than Super Mario 64, and it greatly surpasses Super Mario sunshine. My only other minor complaint 
 is that they could've brought back more old-school challenges, but from the grand scheme of it 
 all this is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benjamin19
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  The story of SMG (Super Mario Galaxy) , is as always nothing to mention or be amazed with. Princess 
 Peach has been kidnapped by Bowser and his minions, as usual. Of course there's the twist to it 
 all, that Bowser suddenly has starcraft-ships made like pirate ships, and everything generally 
 quickly turns into space, instead of safe ground. Mario obviously tried to save his dear princess, 
 and he finds himself gifted with a small star, which gives him some space-travelling traits and 
 so on. He lands on a observatory deep in space, which he then uses as rendez-vouz point for the 
 rest of the game (AKA the place where he picks out galaxies to visit and get the stars in) .
  
  The game mechanics is the same as Mario 64 and Sunshine, so you'll quickly be used to how to 
 jump, double-jump and all the other kinds of jumps our little fat plumber knows. But given we're 
 in space, things can't be kept as simple. In every galaxy, there's a number of planets which each 
 holds a number of stars. You start out by picking a planet, and then choose the star you want to 
 find. You can gain that star in various ways, such as racing, platforming your way to it or gather 
 red coins. 
  
  At some points you're confronted with bosses, but that part is somehow lacking. While a few bosses 
 feel refreshing, then generally the fights are mediocre and seem plain and the opposite of epic.
 
  
  That being said. The galaxies in SMG are very well-made. The levels are beatiful and different 
 and you can easily sit down, first person camera and study the stages, just for the relaxing effect 
 the soft-glowing planets have.
  
  A solid 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Code_Geass_CC
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 7:17 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is by far the best Wii game (until brawl comes out) . Im not even a huge Mario 
 fan. I've beaten SM64 and SMSunshine, but Mario games dont compare to Loz games in my eyes. This 
 game is just amazing. The galaxy theme makes Galaxy look and feel fresh. The game looks amazing. 
 Lots of color that is really pleasing to look at. The gameplay is just as amazing. The Wii mote 
 really works well and wont take anytime to get used to. Mario also has a bunch of forms. Bee Mario 
 lets you fly, Boo Mario lets you go through objects, Spring Mario lets you jump high. There is 
 also ice and classic fire Mario. Non of the forms are that hard to use either. Spring Mario might 
 be difficult at first, but you'll get used to it. The boss fights are also fun and impressive. 
 This game may be a little to easy though. There are also special comets that changes how a lvl 
 plays. Comets will: Make the lvl timed, make foes fast, scatter 100 purple coins everywhere and 
 much more. As you can see Galaxy surpasses every other Mario game. You MUST get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: so_hai
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 3:23 am PT
Review:  Now that some of the glitter-dust has faded, and Mario Galaxy has had time to be played (and played 
 again) in isolation of the heavy promotion and media hype, I think now is a good time to see what 
 this games impact has really been. Also, can Mario Galaxy really give players what they've been 
 thirsting for; a worthy sequel to everybody's revered favourite?
  
  On boot-up of the game, we see that the promoted space-theme is only suggested at, and, after selecting 
 a Mii for our game-save file, we take hold of the Wiimote and nunchuk and begin on the mission 
 of finding and rescuing Princess Peach. Bowser, in his infinite stubbornness and admirable determination, 
 has managed to seize her again for his own ends. This segment is probably one of the more disturbing 
 scenes ever shown inside the Mushroom Kingdom. The grounds outside the Castle look like they've 
 been fire-bombed  smoke, debris and lifeless toad-characters litter the landscape. As Mario, you 
 enter late and are given proper motivation for tracking the Koopa-King down one more time.
  
  'Galaxy introduces us to Rosalina, a beautifully designed character dressed in a jade-coloured 
 slip-over. Her blonde fringe covers one eye, and she exudes a class that no other from the Mushroom 
 Kingdom has. She has a manner that is both motherly (she is often referred to as "Mamma") and almost 
 goddess-like. Already, we see that these character ingredients and designs have been escalated 
 to higher realms than has been in any other prequel  could the game play follow this trend also?
 
  
  The presentation is second-to-none. There is an inert, world-class crispness to all of the audio 
 and vision. No expense has been spared, and I'm sure that any criticism made to any of the game 
 ingredients can only be chalked up to a difference in taste, not in technicality. This is the first 
 time that I've really believed that players on other systems are truly missing out. Sure, Halo 
 3 is an X360 title only, and Gran Turismo 5 a PS3 exclusive, but when playing Mario Galaxy, you 
 really feel that this experience will never be duplicated, even by Nintendo themselves. It is a 
 vision of game play that cannot be re-packaged or re-mixed or improved on, any more than you can 
 improve on Michelangelo's David. (And no, I'm not equating this video game to that masterpiece, 
 only its technical prowess, integrity and uncompromising vision) . The inevitability of a Halo 4, 
 Gran Turismo 6 is there for any gamer to sense  the inevitability of a Mario game of this ilk 
 is vanishingly small. That is what makes this title special  its own uniqueness come across from 
 Star Collection No. 1, and you are not led into believing that this is Super Mario Galaxy v0.95.
 
  
  This game is the ultimate Mario experience is because it balances its key elements superbly. The 
 mix of game play styles, the challenging yet intricate controls, the constantly shifting objectives 
 all make this game a true pleasure to play through. No longer are re-visiting areas and re-treading 
 paths with only a marginally different star location. 'Galaxy has you visiting mini-world, figuring 
 out how to get off them in any number of ingenious ways, all while executing the most smooth move 
 system I've ever encountered. The camera, now an auto-shifting masterpiece, helps you navigate 
 the true third-dimension like never before.
  
  Again, the one thing this game exudes is charm. The "hardcore" gamer cares not for charm, and would 
 only sneer at shell-surfing penguin, or a bee with a case of the itches. As quirky-for-quirkys 
 sake as this may sound, it really is one of the core ingredients that make this game such a pleasure 
 to play. So yes, the hardcore gamer may find these things repellent, but I would argue that no 
 hardcore gamer should be without this title. I believe that a true hardcore gamer is interested 
 in all of what gaming may offer, not just that disproportionately represented and aging first-person-shooter 
 sub-genre, or that equally distorted portrayal of MMORPG sub-genre. A "hardcore" gamer should be 
 looking for games that improve and progress gaming experiences, regardless of genre. Their interest 
 should know no-bounds, and care not of company loyalties, only of gamer-loyalty. In this sense, 
 'Galaxy is as loyal as Golden Retriever. The whole thing is geared for fun while pushing gaming 
 to a new height. It shares this honour with a very small list of titles.
  
  So 'Galaxy improves on it's predecessors in every single way. I cannot think of one area where 
 this game failed in that regard. The graphics, the presentation, the sound, the controls, the last-ability, 
 the vision, the heart, the passion, the direction are all superior to that other Mario title. And, 
 they are all superior to any other game in this (increasingly mutating) genre. The other Mario 
 game, the one that is on everybody's 5-star list, has now been dethroned, and this time they didn't 
 need to add a dimension, just explore it to the fullest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake2215449
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is one of the most biggest successes of nintendo yet. The game features Mario 
 having to rescue Princess Peach from the evil clutches of Bowser and Mario, teaming up with Rosalina, 
 a woman who dedicated her life for the safety of Lumas asks Mario to help her power up her observatory 
 to make it fly like a space ship again. She says that if Mario helps her, then she can help Mario 
 rescue Peach and defeat Mario's arch enemy Bowser. 
  
  As you follow up the story you will go to different planets to find stars to let the observatory 
 fly again. You go to different galaxies and planets through domes used to watch comets and from 
 there you fly to planets seeking stars. The last galaxy of each dome is usually Bowser Jr.'s and 
 you fight him and his robots or minions. You also fight Bowser 3 times which is usually extremely 
 fun and epic.
  
  The biggest twist of the game is that this time Mario is in space and over there he reunites with 
 the Toads and Luigi (but not Wario) to form a team of Lumas, Mushroom people and moustache guys. 
 How fun can that be? I can tell you quite a lot! This game is by far the cutest because of the 
 cuddly and wuddly Lumas. They are sooo cute and they ask for star bits which is supposed to be 
 their favourite food. In the game, you collect a lot of star bits by aming your cursor towards 
 them. You can also use the star bits as weapons by throwing them at enemies by pressing B. Rosalina (the 
 mother of the Lumas) gives you a power of spinning to fly to other panets by spinning your Wii 
 Remote or your Nunchuk. These two are your only forms of attacking enemies. It would be better 
 if Mario was able to kick or punch but everything can't be just like you wanted you know.
  
  This game is a lot of fun and is one of the games you will remember for years to come. The 
 best part of Super Mario Galaxy is the colour and contrast of the game. It is so beautiful and 
 is eye catching,
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daveyx0
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  Mario Galaxy is a fantastic game that can be played by young and old. It has 120 power stars to 
 collect wich are available at the end of a quest in a galaxy. If you want to get everything in 
 the game in a normall speed it`s about 40 hours playing time. The minigames are fantastic, like 
 the mantaray race and the Starball. The Wii Remote and Nunchuk are used and it works very good 
 so you can play with joy. 
  Some examples of funny happinings in the game: 
  Luigi is also found in the game at a Ghost Mansion like in Luigi`s Mansion. He`s affraid of the 
 ghost and keeps saying Mario with a scared voice. After you saved him he will go on a adventure 
 to. He finds some power stars but gets lost if he has it. So he sends a picture to you of the place 
 were he is. By a look at the picture you should know were to go.
  Princess Peach keeps sending 5 ups by letter. But how is this possible if she is captured by Bowser?
 
  In every Galaxy you will find a Event Comet at the time. These are to complete your power star 
 collection. Watch out for the Daredevil comets. They are nasty!
  After completing the game with 120 stars you can play the game over as Luigi. Super Luigi Galaxy!
 
  This game sure is a recommender for the Wii! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jg4xchamp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Some genres have shown that they can't stand the test of time. For instance rail shooters are dead 
 today, or atleast not considered high quality games. Some say that platformers have all but died 
 out. Yes you still have new franchises like Sly Cooper, Jak, and Ratchet, but none of them live 
 up to the glory days. 
  
  Indeed where the ratchet franchise is more action oriented as well as Jak. There level design, 
 and core platforming was never on par with what Super Mario 64 had delivered, and when Super Mario 
 Sunshine came out dissappinting (but still a blast) in the eyes of many platformers had lost there 
 spark. In comes Super Mario Galaxy.
  
  Miyamoto is arguably the best videogame developer of all time. He is the messiah to the nintendo 
 fans, and if any man was going to bring back platformers to another level it was going to be the 
 creator of Mario Himself, and boy did he deliver. Not only is Mario Galaxy extremely polished, 
 the game design is arguably some of his best work ever. 
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is a traditional Mario 3D platformer in the vein of Mario 64. Similar moves, 
 mechanics and such. However this time there are massive twists. This time mario is launched into 
 space, where he will enter each different galaxy with a new goal in mind everytime. From just looking 
 at them it is nothing special, seems simple. Then when you start moving you see the difference. 
 
  
  The spherical worlds from Super Mario World return, but on a much grander stage in Mario Galaxy. 
 Now the effect of gravity and physics take a stronger turn. The puzzle solving, mind bending gameplay 
 is just fantastic. Each little planet in these galaxies has it's own pull, and own design to it. 
 Each level, puzzle, mission, is designed so brilliantly that you will play some over and over agian 
 just because how well designed they are. 
  
  Certain galaxies gain an extra challange with specefic comets that pass through each galaxy. These 
 could have players doing a speed run, or doing it without killing an enemy, or without dieing, 
 or without getting hit, or the hardest getting the 100 purple coins. In typical platformer fashion 
 you will be collecting for 120 stars in Super Mario Galaxy. These challanges can be pretty easy 
 at first, but some of the later ones are extremely difficult. Thus the difficulty in this game 
 is absolutely perfect. It is easy enough for anyone to beat the main quest, but hard enough for 
 the dedicated to be challanged for full completion. 
  
  This wouldn't be a Mario game with out a ton of nice power ups. The bee suit is a lot of fun, but 
 the best is probably ICE Mario. Which lets you walk on water, and the many levels that use this 
 power up are designed extremely well giving you many productive uses of this powerup. 
  
  The other big thing about this game is the controls. Unlike Zack and Wikki and Metroid Prime 3 
 which sell these controls by using them in a revolutionary or full on control manor, Galaxy makes 
 the controls natural. Plain and Simple Mario Galaxy is not about the wiimote, as much as it is 
 about it's excellent game design and polish. That doesn't mean wiimote feels tacked on. It means 
 that the controls just feel natural. There initial use is just there, but the wiimote specfic puzzles 
 are just like the rest of the game. Brilliantly designed, and implemented in such a way that it 
 is natural, refreshing, creative, and an overall blast to play. 
  
  Super Mario Galaxy does so many things well from a platformer standpoint. It is a lengthy single 
 player for those who go for the 120 stars. The second playthrough adds some nice replay value (no 
 spoiler) . The level design are the best the franchise has ever seen. Not only are each of these 
 levels creative and fun, but they look fantastic on top of that. The boss fights are never challanging, 
 but they are unique, well thought out, and fun to play overall. 
  
  Some flaws against the game would be that the story is typical Mario and non existant. The boss 
 fights are easy and simple. The coop is a tacked on feature instead of a usefull one. The game 
 is criminally to easy for the first half of the game. Visually this does have excellent art direction, 
 but overall like all wii games there are superior visuals on the 360 and PS3.
  
  That said not many games are this polished. Not many games play this good. Not many franchises 
 are capable of feeling this refreshing. Mario Galaxy would be a fun platformer with any character. 
 Throw in the iconic characters, the lovely melodies we all know and love, and some of the best 
 game design ever by arguably gamings' biggest dev and you have what is not only the best platformer 
 this gen or this year, but arguably the best platformer in the entire Mario history. This game 
 belongs with the best of the best. This is the best game of 2007 and the best Mario game to date. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: studwig
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  The chubby little plumber is back and he has never looked so good. Mario and the gang take their 
 adventures blasting into outterspace. The graphics are top notch and compete with xbox 360 and 
 ps3 for quality. The gameplay is amazing and and revolutionary. The creative levels designs are 
 what set this game apart from any other. The space atmoshere and gravity constantly come into play 
 in new and different ways for each level. The difficulty is perfect, some parts are a piece of 
 cake while others require some lives. The controls are impressive and work flawlessly throughout 
 the entire game. The storyline is perhaps too simple but has depth and decent replay value (definately 
 won't beat it overnight) . Super Mario Galaxy is easily one of the Wii's premiere games and is an 
 instant classic no nintendo fan should be without. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexmurray
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 15, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  When I first played this game I was blow away the amazing graphics, Its not your MGS4 but its good. 
 Nintendo has really turned this around from super paper mario ,with the setting in space Mario 
 travels to galaxys and walks around mini planets. Nitendo really captures the law of gravity. You 
 can walk ontop of and underneath planets.
  
  The difficuty of the game is just right, It has been toned down compared to earlier versions of 
 the mario franchise, but is still challenging at times. This game also has a amazing sounds track, 
 but characters still dont have the ability of speech. But the Replay value of the game and the 
 challenge of getting all of the 120 stars will have you playing this game for along time to come
 
  
  You will find this game amazing, a must buy for wii owners adds to the growing collection of amazing 
 wii games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bk994
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  ... but a MAJOR one in general with games that make you chase "extra" stuff in the hopes on unlocking 
 something really cool. Completely anticlimatic. Sure, it's nice to play as Luigi and see the post-Bowser 
 defeated star festival, but for getting 121 stars... COME ON! I expected a little more. A trip to 
 Japan to meet Miyamoto, or $100 cash. Okay, maybe not that much. But something that justifies putting 
 that much time and effort into this otherwise flawless game. Reminds me of getting all the stars 
 in Yoshi's Quest, or mastering the shooting gallery in RE4 or taking pictures in Wind Waker.... or 
 how about killing Omega Weapon in FFVIII. The list goes on and on....
  
  Aside from that, what good can I say about this game that hasn't already been said? Great story, 
 responsive controls (once you get used to them) and just plain FUN, which are the essentials and 
 the reason Nintendo kills the competition. Revolutionary graphics. Excellent characters. But VERY 
 addictive. As frustrating as collecting purple coins on the spaceship and 8-bit Mario/Luigi was, 
 I couldn't put the remote down! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nikki-No-Credit
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, i think this game is fantastic and i love the mario series so don't worry i'm 
 not going to put you off it if you're planning to buy it :)
  
  It really has brilliant graphics, my first thoughts when playing this game was 'wow'. But gaming 
 isn't all about the graphics or the characters but the game play comes into it too.
  
  The controls for this game are original which is to be expected from using the wii remote.
  
 
  As you can probably tell from my short sentences and blunt points i'm loosing concentration and 
 the will to carry on doing this, which is how i felt during the game.
  
  There's just something not gelling with me in this game, i'm usually totally immersed when playing 
 a mario game but i just can't go more than an hour at a time with this one. i think it's just too 
 unoriginal in terms of storyline and level layout and for me this game will always be in mario 
 64s' shadow.
  
  Even though i say this, i don't regret buying it at all because it is a genuinely great game that 
 i highly recommend, it just didn't do it for me sadly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nmjkl22
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is the most awesome game ever ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! 
 ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! !! ! !! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! This game is pretty much like 
 all wii Mario games you are trying to save the beloved princess Peach from the evil king Bowser. you 
 You use the wii and nunchuck to go threw lots of creative planets like the loopdy loop galaxy. 
 I highly recommend this game to you ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! !! ! ! !! !! ! !! ! 
 !!! !!! !! !! !! ! !! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! !  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXecutor195
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  This game is good, but in truth I didnt like it as much as the old mario games, but it is better 
 then Mario Sunshine and I will tell you that.
  
  The game is too built on guiding the person through it and getting the stars isnt hard at all. 
 After you get more than 60 stars you start getting bored of the game as compared to the other Mario 
 franchises they just kept you playing so it isnt that addicting as the other Mario games but it 
 is pretty fun.
  
  The game is worth the wait and you should absolutely get it if you have a Wii! This game is probably 
 one of the most anticipated games of the year...
  
  Well overall here is what I think of the game.
  
  Graphics: 9 (could have been better but still 
 some of the planets look very beautiful)
  
  Gameplay: 8.5 (Almost there but still can get very boring) .
  
  Music: 9
  
  Overall Fun: 
 9 (A very fun game if you are a young boy or girl but for mature teenager like me it just wasn't 
 enough) .
  
  
  
  Review by eXecutor195 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwr1ght
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 5:23 am PT
Review:  I had this game for Christmas and still find myself playing today, The game boasts huge wolds to 
 explore with a variety of tasks to complete to obtain the cherished stars to save the princess.
 
  
  When starting to play the game the levels start very easy but get increasing more difficult as 
 time goes on and there are a number of side tasks available through the hungry loomers who help 
 you get to further worlds which arnt noted on the original map for a helping of gems. 
  
  Mario Galaxy also offers the ability of having a 2nd player joining in the action by helping you 
 collect those all important gems and fend off the evil creatures.
  
  The graphics are what can be expected from the Wii as it is more driven towards gameplay rather 
 than high definition graphics.
  
  Over all I consider this to be a must for your collection as it is a timeless classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hue14
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is the next generation platformer brought to us by Nintendo. Super Mario 64 
 and Super Mario Sunshine has sparked a new age in 3D platforming games, but this game gives a new 
 dimension to the look. New types of gameplay, such as walking around a fully 360 degree islands 
 on the galaxies. The Wii controls, sad to say, don't blend in well. All you occasionally do is 
 spin the remote and point it to shoot the currency (of some matter) , star bits. To wrap it up, 
 this game is great fun for anyone willing to appreciate the bright world of Mario. It has unique 
 galaxies, perplexing bosses that have puzzles you need to solve to defeat the large enemy, and 
 an overall enjoyable experience. A must have for Wii owners. But warning to anyone who lives in 
 a dark world and doesn't like bright color and happiness, don't get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CloudStrife645
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy was fun but I did find some things that I didn't like. The game had excellent 
 graphics and sounded great. There were tons of stars to collect and very unique worlds you have 
 only imagined. There were some levels that were perfect in difficulty... some not so much (i'll 
 get there later) . The controls were great but a couple things didn't work out too well. The difficulty 
 was pretty easy most of the time but some levels made you want to snap your disk in half. There 
 were a few little things that they shouldn't have done such as the cosmic Mario races. The controls 
 were a bit clunky sometimes. Oh yeah the story wasn't very well told but told in a unique way. 
 This game was fun though and lots of little things you con do when you've finished the game such 
 as collecting all of the stars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BaraChat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  The concept of the game, which is finding 120 stars in differents worlds and areas to eventually 
 free the princess from Bowser's claws, is kind of old and it can feel repetitive for some people. 
 But that game took the same model from Mario 64 and Sunshine for GameCube and made it feel fantastic. 
 The story wasn't original at all (and the side story, the Rosmerta one, wasn't useful at all) , 
 but it didn't need to be. The controls felt great along with the gravity sensation on the planets. 
 The graphics are easily the best you can find on a Wii game to date. I loved the music too. It's 
 a bit too easy to finish the game with only 60 stars but getting 120 is something else. Only 25 
 or so of the stars are actually hard to get and 2 or 3 of them are very hard. Overall, it was a 
 very satisfying adventure but I hope that the next Mario game will be more innovative and that 
 Nintendo tries something different. The 9.5 rating gamespot gave is quite right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokefan_10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 1:55 am PT
Review:  It's a really cool game for all Mario and Nintendo fans for the Wii.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is pretty cool but only two ways to attack: spinning and jumping on top of it. The 
 way the game allow you to travel is cool because launching from planet to planet is an awesome 
 experience, who doesn't want to fly through the cosmos with a star to protect you. The objective 
 is not that awesome because its just a bunch of stars to regain power of a giant flying observatory 
 full of stars. The best thing of the game is that players can play as Luigi by just simply collect 
 every 120 star and replay the final battle with Bowser but the bad side of playing as Luigi is 
 that he is too fast and has to slow down.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are pretty awesome because the shadow can help finding coins to restore health including 
 at the purple comet.
  
  Story:
  Its the same as always rescue Princess Peach and defeat Bowser.
  
  I got a suggestion for Nintendo, 
 make a game that focuses on Luigi and Princess Daisy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mj-Healy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 2:56 am PT
Review:  Their have been many many great Mario games over the years. From Super Mario Bros. 3 to Mario 64, 
 they have all been great in many ways. Which means Super Mario Galaxy has a lot to live up to. 
 And being set in space maybe it would be a poor change for Mario. But no. This game lives up to 
 all expectations.
  
  The story for the game is hardly different from usual Mario games; Princess Peach is captuered 
 by the king of the Koopa's: Bowser. But this time, Bowser has kidnapped Peach and brought her to 
 space. So Mario like a good rescuer tries to save her. He fails and ends up on a small planet in 
 the middle of nowhere. He then meets up with Rosalina, a space woman, and they try to find all 
 the power stars to rescue Peach. Apart from the space twist, this is a usual Mario story.
  
  When first turn on the game you will notice the graphics, which are top notch. This is the 
 best looking game on the Wii by a long shot. Everything is very colourful and happy. The galaxies 
 themselves in the game are some of the best designed levels I have ever seen. From a galaxy made 
 of toys to made of food, they are so many level designs and it never gets repetitive. The gameplay 
 is some what different from older Mario games too. Though your still jumping about, each level 
 or galaxy is made up of planets where you beat the goal on one planet then move to the next. Though 
 this makes the game more linear than past Mario games and there isin't much exploration to be done. 
 It is still great fun to fly from one galaxy. The music in the game is simply brilliant. All of 
 the classic Mario tunes plus some new ones turn up and are fully orchestrated and sound beautiful.
 
  
  I have just one grip with the game and that is the difficulty. This game is very easy to get to 
 start to finish. And the first star in the game couldnt be any easier. Though the difficulty curve 
 is nice and game becomes more challenging towards the end. Most of the boss fights are very easy 
 but some later ones can be tough. But getting all the 120 stars in the game is no easy feat.
  
  There is only one minor issue in the game but that is it. Apart from that it is perfect. May 
 I say this is miles ahead of Sunshine and Mario 64. Best game on the Wii hands down. A true spectacle 
 of gaming no one should miss. If you have a Wii get it!
  
  Gameplay: 9.5
  Lifespan: 9.4
  Sound: 10
  Visuals: 9.7
  
  Overall: 9.8
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vividnightmare
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 9, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  Good ol' Mario... a classic and name known all over yet his format hasn't changed much over the 
 years for story or characters. Mario 64 marked the hallmark of 3d exploration and it was good. 
 Since then little has happened with the Mario franchise, other than paper Mario nothing note worthy 
 has been made. So then, how does the monolith stack up in his new run for the Wii?
  Mario Galaxy starts off great, using the Wiimote and Nunchuck as well as any decent Wii game the 
 controls feel natural while still keeping the wii's motion sensing in the game play. The controls 
 themselves are rather simple meaning they're quick to pick up giving you plenty of time for mastery 
 and developing your own play style, which any good plat former should do.
  As for the game play, those with a persuasion to motion sickness should stay far away from this 
 one. The constant loop de loop around small asteroid like planets could easily send one to the 
 floor or worse. Luckily in standard Nintendo fashion, a lot of work and design was put into making 
 the style as family friendly as possible. So while it can be a little tough on the stomach is you 
 try to make it that way (by shifting the camera in certain ways while moving mario about topsy 
 turvy) overall with a little camera control it's rather easy to stay away from upset stomach difficulty 
 mode. As for the core play it's self, it will be very fun and interesting at first. After a few 
 hours you'll find that you've adjusted and the exhilaration of it is over and now it's just fun. 
 A few more hours from that and you'll realize that the games simplicity is just complicated enough 
 to begin feeling partially like a chore instead of fun. More complex than original Mario but far 
 simpler than other adventure games like Tomb Raider or such, tends to feel like an unhappy middle 
 ground. You can't just relax totally and enjoy a simple game nor can you really delve in and get 
 absorbed into a complex frantic action game. It eventually becomes a droning of "Push forward, 
 wiggle wrist, flip wrist, push forward, wiggle, flick and repeat" 
  Visually, the game is on par with that of Mario Sunshine. While minor upgrades have been made one 
 must remember that the Wii has little more power than the Gamecube did, since the focus was on 
 Motion Sense instead of graphics. Still the visuals do nothing to take away from the game; universes 
 are still interesting and beautifully designed while at the same time characters are cute and lively. 
 Just don't be expecting a contender to the Unreal 3 engine or anything you may find on Xbox or 
 Playstation in this day and age.
  
  
  Rundown
  
  The Good
  +Fun game play even after a long time of play. It does get rather drab after a few hours but it 
 never feels painful in terms of repetition. 
  +Levels. While over all they all play very similar the design to each and every level feels unique 
 and thought through. Every level feels cared for and designed specifically for it's self.
  +Hey it's a' me Mario! Fact is I can't think of a BAD Mario game, though Mario Through time on 
 the SNES was pretty close. Overall if you get this or any Mario time chances are you'll find yourself 
 enjoying it at some point and for some amount of time.
  
  The Bad
  -Controls - Don't get me wrong the controls ARE easy to learn. Over time though they do tend to 
 feel inadequate for the situations. The limited moves Mario does have will be enough to get any 
 hardy adventurer through alive, but it still feels a little drab for the standard Mario assortment 
 since Sunshine and Paper came out.
  -Mario and friends - More puzzling than anything is the inclusion of a type of multiplayer. If 
 you're looking for a game to play with friends get almost anything but this. It's not a true horrible 
 since the two player is so close to not existing it can't be counted as good or bad. Instead of 
 playing with you, player two merely using the star cursor to launch stars at baddies while player 
 one controls Mario and does everything else. Through game play I rarely used star shooting and 
 to give someone only that doesn't feel like coop but something you'd do to keep your little brother 
 occupied while you actually played the game by yourself.
  -Haven't I been here before? - As is becoming a common ground for games today, in an attempt to 
 drastically extend the game you will be able too (and in many cases just to proceed to the next 
 area) be required to play the same levels over and over again to obtain enough stars to unlock 
 new planets and new galaxies. While at first this is rather interesting as every time you go back 
 for a new star you explore a slightly altered version of the level previous. While this is interesting 
 to watch as you shoot through the worlds area and see the places you've been before zip by you, 
 many a time you'll end up running the prior level all the way through so just at the end you can 
 find one last star jump that wasn't there before that will send you to a boss. Long term this becomes 
 tiring as you realize every planet you go to will require you to beat it 3 to five times.
  
  Overall Mario Galaxy is something any and every Wii owner should have. It's a blast when it's 
 new and something to do once it's old to you. The camera rarely does have issue and usually assists 
 the player more than hinders, the few issues one may have typically are in situations without baddies 
 or other stressful situations. Veterans and more experienced gamers will find themselves wondering 
 where he real game is, feeling near the end that the game was a lot of pretty colors but not much 
 meat. Though the game has great length this can at some points feel more taxing than anything, 
 as some though very few levels do tend to be un-enjoyable due to level mechanics. Still, it's worth 
 the play if you own a Wii and are looking for a good game be it action or anything else this should 
 do the trick.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dstraats
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 6, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Ok so. I have to be one of the biggest Zelda fans, almost every game, I've beaten and collected 
 everything possible. But his game, "Mario Galaxy" could almost change my opinion on favorite game. 
 Now I will never let Zelda down because it's been faithful and given me SO much entertainment that 
 I will never change my mind, but if I wasn't a die hard fan and played Mario Galaxy before Zelda, 
 Zelda would probably have come second.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy for those who don't know is the classic story of peach getting stolen at one 
 of her parties in toad town. Usually Bowser comes and steals her and hides in his castle waiting 
 for Mario to come and beat the crap out of him but this time Bowser takes peach and hides deep 
 in the universe. Bowser actually fights this time though, you fight him in person a lot more.
 
  
  What makes this game so good is the physics of the game. Every Galaxy has its own atmosphere right? 
 So in this game the planets actually let you run around a 360 degree planet. It can sometimes get 
 confusing but once you have the hang of it, nothing is wrong with it.
  
  This game is easy to recommend to anyone with a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ohgod247
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  I am pretty much "new" to gaming. I started out with my 360 and was blown away by the graphics, 
 environments, and gameplay. Soon after getting my 360 I thought about getting a Wii. Then I heard 
 and read that the graphics were nowhere near as good as the 360 or the PS3 and thought "Nah, I 
 aint gonna get one." So, I bought a PS3 instead and was quite disappointed after finding out there 
 were really no games for it and the ones that were out for it were better looking and ran better 
 on the 360 (I had to try Resistance) . I'm a huge fan of first person shooters and rarely play any 
 other type of game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gh057rider
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy looks and sounds amazing. It's a much better game than Super Mario Sunshine, 
 drawing much more similarities from Super Mario 64. I really don't have much to say about this 
 game. It's a really fun game which will keep you entertained as you collect over 100 stars. There's 
 quite a few special abilities: Fire, Ice, Bee, Boo, Spring, Flying, Invincibility, etc. which bring 
 a new element to the levels which they are used in (most of which are quite fun, but some are often 
 frustrating) . It's very similar to the previous adventures in that the more Stars you collect the 
 more galaxies that open up and each of the galaxies offers new planets which are entirely unique.
 
  
  I only have two complaints: the camera is often very annoying, and the lack of multiplayer (you 
 can use a second Wiimote to collect star bits, but it doesn't really seem like a multiplayer experience) . 
 It would have been nice to see a Co-op mode, but even a race for the star mode like Super Mario 
 64 DS would have been acceptable. All in all, Super Mario Galaxy is a definite must have for any 
 Wii owner, just as Super Mario 64 was a must have for the Nintendo 64. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Curtis_Bundy
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Alright I just finished the whole game with 61 stars and the game took me 8 hours and 25 minutes 
 to beat with no deaths. I would like to say the graphics are AMAZING and on a Nintendo system to 
 might I add. The gameplay is a little changed you can't punch but you can spin which is cool though. 
 The sound is amazing also the music is extremely awesome because of the way its put into the game 
 and with some fan request they put a few old music in the game and redid them and made them even 
 cooler.
  The levels in this game is so awesome I can't even talk about it you have to play it or look at 
 some screen shots to know what I am talking about. The star system from Mario 64 is back which 
 is cool because I loved Mario 64. But with the star system they put secret stars that Luigi can 
 find and Mario can't they also put certain comets far challenges like a Daredevil Comet makes you 
 fight a boss with only 1 life its actually really fun and there is other types but play the game 
 to figure it out okay. 
  This game I recommend to anybody because they will pick up this game and will play this game for 
 a long time and there is replay value here but its a secret shhhh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisPperson
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 29, 2008 9:20 pm PT
Review:  SUPER MARIO GALAXY:
  
  Graphics: 10/10 Mario Graphics are really some of the best graphics out there. Hardly any "Partly 
 through wall" glitches, and you are guaranteed to never let the graphics mess you up
  
  Storyline: 9/10 Super Mario Galaxy has a storyline of "Save the stars!" and it's a great storyline, 
 just not a 10 storyline cause it's sort of been used... alot. But still a great storyline
  
  Music: 9/10 The music for this game is fitting. It all goes together with the game. They have 
 music for every occasion. Except most of the time you forget that music is even playing because 
 you are so lost into the game.
  
  Good: Super Mario Galaxy is basically N64's Mario, just that you are able to do alot more than 
 just run, jump, and a couple other things. Here you can run, jump, double jump, triple jump, spin, 
 shoot, and a few other stuff. If you are bee mario you can fly for short periods, if you are boo 
 mario you can fade through walls.
  
  Bad: Can also be the game where you are dying to play it, and then just quit after a level because 
 it's boring. That rarely happens though.
  
  Overall: If you do not have this for the wii already, then get it. It is arguably one of the best 
 wii games. If you dislike adventure and those types of games, you will still propably like this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjgamefreak
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Whats not to say about this game! The storyline is great, the difficulty is great, the game play 
 is great and the graphics are incredible. This is a very addictive game and It's almost like a 
 Super Mario 64 game, but much more improved. You have to go to Galaxy's to collect stars, to get 
 star chips to attack enemies with the star chips. You fly from one planet to another and complete 
 objectives. This is a perfect game, no doubt about it! Every thing looks good, to move you use 
 the joy stick to move around Mario around to use his spin attack you wiggle the Wii remote and 
 to collect the star chip you point the Wii remote at the star chips, and not only that, there are 
 some classic Mario type stages and galaxy's and like most other Mario games you jump on question 
 boxes. It almost can't get more addictive than this. This game is definitely recommended.
  
  Overall this game is 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NovaScizor75
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  This game is actually the main reason I bought the Wii, well this and Smash Bros. Unlike most Wii 
 games, the graphics are pretty outstanding and the music is just as good. Gameplay: 10/10. Silky 
 smooth controls that make perfect use of the Wii remote and a camera that is usually placed just 
 right. It has the same simple actions that Super Mario 64 had; run, jump and attack. Some levels 
 even use the Wii remote like a joystick. Graphics: 10/10. The graphics in this game are amazing, 
 unlike other Wii games which almost look like Gamecube games. Sound: 10/10. The fully orchestrated 
 soundtrack in this game is really well put together and catchy as well. The background music for 
 each level suits that level's theme and mood perfectly. Design: 10/10. The levels are what really 
 what makes this game golden. So well-designed that you probably will go back to play them over 
 and over again. And there's even a co-op mode where the second player collects and fires star bits 
 for you. Story: 6/10. It's the typical Mario story. Peach has been kidnapped by Bowser, so you 
 as Mario must save her again. While it is a pretty good game overall, it's not the most difficult 
 game on the Wii. At times it can feel almost too easy. 50 star bits for a 1-up? And at some point 
 in the game you can repeatedly get 5 1-ups from Princess Peach for no apparent reason. However, 
 it does sort of balance this out with some tough levels throughout the game. In conclusion. it's 
 a Mario classic that any Wii owner should play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inamon
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 29, 2008 5:40 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 and Super Mario Sunshine are the only pre-Galaxy 3D Mario platformers, if you didn't 
 include the two DS titles New Super Mario Bros and Super Mario 64 DS. But Galaxy made these two 
 titles what they should have been. A huge improvement from Sunshine and an energy boost from Super 
 Mario 64, I can't stop thinking but the fact that Galaxy is possibly the best 3D Mario game ever, 
 and certainly one of the best Mario platformers ever. It has its problems, but it's still amazing, 
 inside and out.
  
  Let's start with the graphics. They really show the Wii's power and fits on any current-gen console. 
 It's not the best looking game ever, but certainly one of the more unique. It's colourful, the 
 animation is spectacular, and the atmosphere manages to make the smallest hairs shiver - from the 
 movement to one planet to another, to swimming in huge shores, there's no doubt that Super Mario 
 Galaxy is a real good looking game. And the soundtrack... pure amazement. Now more jiggy tunes 
 or annoying voice-talk during gameplay, but instead the soundtrack is nearly fully ochestral, and 
 the Good Egg Galaxy's theme is truely one of the best tunes of gaming history.
  
  And the platforming and huge side of it... bliss. Getting 60 power stars to defeat Bowser and 60 
 more for full completition (the same required in Super Mario 64) may not sound the hardest thing 
 ever, but still the difficlulty for the 120 stars completion is great - there's loads of coin-collecting, 
 enemy-dodging and starbit-firing in between, and there's loads of new abilities and stratergies 
 in between. And the use of gravity is excellent. But there are some problems - the camera control 
 is a doodle in places that you need it most, like 2.5D entraces or spherical movement, but you 
 see most of the surroundings and Mario doesn't take up much of the screen. Also, the boss fight 
 with Bowser is too easy. And I was surpised when I found out that the storyline was more powerful 
 and more focused then any other Mario game, something you might see from a Zelda game. But overall, 
 if you haven't got a Wii, get one and play. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucario-kid
Rating: 9
Date: May 28, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  Super Mario galaxy is the newest installment in probably NINTENDOS most popular franchise, and 
 it's understandable why!
  
  Like most Mario games you play as the lead plumber Mario and go into different realms (or in this 
 case worlds!) and try to find the STAR at the end of the level, when you have enough stars you 
 go to a special realm/world and fight a boss there to get the GRAND STAR!
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is the plumbers first proper game on the Wii and thankfully it's fantastic!
 
  
  The controls are exellent and easy to get to grips with, the only problem is all you ever do is 
 point and shake, this makes it a tad boring but still fun to play, now to the graphics..... well.... they're 
 DAMN AMAZING!!! They are certainly the best graphics to appear on a Wii game yet!
  
  There are tons of levels to complete, alltogether there's 242, because..... if you don't want any 
 spoilers look away now..... YOU ALSO PLAY THROUGH THE GAME AS LUIGI!!! Although this means it will 
 take absolutley ages to get through the game 100% unfortunatley it also means once you have done 
 it 100% there is no replay value whatsoever.
  
  Overall Super Mario Galaxy is an extrordinary adventure with tons of characters old and new. 9/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NarutoGNT4rocks
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 26, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  There is one word to describe this game and that is "WOW". Mario goes to space to save his Princess 
 Peach from the notorious Bowser, and he is better than ever. He arrives at Comet Observatory, where 
 he goes to galaxys to get power stars to find his princess in the stars. Super Mario Sunshine can 
 barely compare to such an amazing game. Though the concept of collecting shiny things is so alike 
 and the fun little water thing you got, the levels, graphics, enemies, and bosses are more fun 
 and better then SMS. The graphics are easily the best on the Wii so far, as it needs a whole update 
 to the Wii all together I recommend this game to all that like Nintendo published games or anyone 
 that has a Wii. This was the most amazing platformer I have ever played on my Wii or of any of 
 my other systems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dizzydennis
Rating: 6
Date: May 25, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  Overview: Mario has been everywhere. From the Mushroom Kingdom to Isle Delfino. Now it's time to 
 take Mario somewhere new, outer space.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics of this game are beautiful. It seems that Nintendo really went all out with 
 this one. It has great looking character models, nice levels, and really decent lighting effects. 
 It comes to look like one of the best looking Wii games out there. On a special note, it seems 
 that Bowser's hair effects are really noticeable, strange, but it looks nice.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Music: A mixed bag. At times this game can have music that is a work of art. It sounds better than 
 most movies, with it's different styles and great sounding instruments. Still, the music on some 
 levels becomes repetitive and can really get annoying.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Sound: Nothing really stands out. Like the music, repetition sets in, but it's never really too 
 annoying.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Voices: It's a Nintendo game... voices appear as much as Bigfoot does.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Gameplay: I feel that the gameplay could have been so great. I was really excited for this game, 
 but when it came down to it, I felt that the game wasn't what I was hoping for. The overall controls 
 are good, but the repetition really hurts it. Most of the game is used with the analog and doing 
 alittle circular motion to spin Mario. It's not fun when jumping is take back to spin. Also, the 
 levels don't feel as memorible. In Super Mario 64, you could memorize the levels, but in Galaxy, 
 the levels are just a bunch of rocks stringed together. The sphere planets are really annoying 
 too. Jumping or moving on these planets, with out just walking causes the camera to lag behind. 
 Also in the interior enviornments, the camera constantly gets caught behind something that leaves 
 you staring at a shadow of Mario. Also some "levels" are just mirrored versions of past levels, 
 that seems cheap and lazy to me.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Ending notes: I really wanted to like Super Mario Galaxy, but the repition really killed it for 
 me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGuy07
Rating: 9
Date: May 23, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy Review
  The Good: One of the most enjoyable Mario games for a long time, superb graphics and sound, awesome 
 creativity, somewhat long, strong replay value, surprisingly good controls
  The Bad: Not a very powerful story, very easy and not punishing remotely, occasional camera/gravity 
 problems, no multiplayer
  --
  Before I get a bunch of crap about how lame my complaints are, remember one thing: this is more 
 of a hardcore gamer point of view. I understand that this game was aimed for all audiences, but 
 this is a review from the standpoint of someone seeking a challenge. Thank you. 
  Super Mario Galaxy is pure joy. I cannot express how stunned I am. When I typically think of games 
 featuring gravity changes, I think of headaches, dullness, and boredom. However, Galaxy is completely 
 opposite. I love this game, and albeit its minor faults, it proves to be what gamers of all kinds 
 were looking for. It is a lot of fun, and it keeps you coming back. I was expecting the Mario platformer 
 formula to be old and uninteresting, but Galaxy completely refines the style. 
  Despite its relatively same old story, Galaxy starts off enjoyably. The controls take no time at 
 all to master. You'll be performing triple jumps within minutes of starting the game. The controls 
 are spectacular, yet so simple. Using the nunchuck attached with the Wiimote, you move Mario around. 
 Pressing A makes him jump, B makes him duck, flicking the Wiimote activates his spin, and so on. 
 One thing that surprised me was how significant the spin move is in this game, but I won't get 
 into it. Anyways, the game works like any Mario platformer on the big consoles. Essentially, you 
 go through numerous levels acquiring stars. Each level contains various missions to obtain these 
 precious items. Once you collect a specific amount of them, new levels open up and you proceed 
 from there. 
  Again, this whole idea has been used for a long time, yet it is still a great, satisfying experience. 
 The missions you go on to get the stars are excellent and various. They all seem completely different 
 from the others, which goes to show that this game rarely gets repetitive or boring. The whole 
 galaxy themed idea really adds on to the already present creativity. It's hard to get bored of 
 this game. Another great part of it is the intense boss battles. After grabbing stars, certain 
 galaxies lead to boss fights, which, if you win, grant you a power star. You will fight Bowser, 
 Bowser Jr., or some other colossal, intimidating foe Jr. summons. Some of you out there may be 
 thinking that fighting Bowser for the billionth time in a row may be boring, but it hasn't been 
 better. Every boss battle is a new occurrence. While none of them are particularly challenging, 
 they are really fun to battle against.
  The graphics in this game are amazing. Each galaxy you travel to is a beautifully designed level 
 ranging from underwater mazes to volcanic courses. On top of that, the sound is also great. I like 
 the music, but the characters don't say much at all. That's not something I'm going to complain 
 about though. Nearly everything about this game is good. But there are annoyances
  Yeah, the main problem for me had to be the camera. I frequently died numerous times because I 
 was unable to see what I was doing. You do get control of the camera, but sometimes its hard to 
 adjust it to the spot you want it. Also, the rules of gravity can sometimes be frustrating. It's 
 hard to tell when it's safe to go under a course and when it isn't. The story is not very deep. 
 I am not looking for some great, tear jerking, complex tale, but Galaxy's story did not really 
 interest me much at all. Lastly, this game is easy. While it has its length, the missions are fairly 
 easy and don't take much effort to figure out where to go or what to do. Plus, when you die you 
 often respawn right where you lost. The only time you have to restart the whole level is when you 
 get a game over, which does not happen very frequently. Despite these complaints, Mario Galaxy 
 is incredible. 
  --
  Closing Quick Thoughts
  Graphics- The visuals are among the best on the Wii
  Sound- Great music, despite no dialogue
 
  Replay Value- Coming back after completing this game to get all 120 stars is nearly a necessity.
 
  Gameplay- A terrific adventure that takes quite some time to complete, yet it lacks true challenges 
 for the hardcore gamers. 
  Story- Not the best, but it is worth paying attention to.
  Controls- Superb, never thought they'd be near as good as they are.
  Overall- Purchase it, have 
 a lot of fun with it, come back to it often.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: im_a_frewb
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 23, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 9
  Value: 10
  
  
  I must admit I was a bit skeptical about Super Mario Galaxy when I heard about it initially. I 
 honestly thought that it was about time that Nintendo should lay what seemed to be a very weathered 
 series to rest, especially after playing the atrocity that was Super Mario Strikers. I mean, come 
 on, Nintendo has three franchises that have kept the dough rolling in over the years. The aforementioned 
 being first, and the Legend of Zelda, being second. While Zelda games have been getting easier 
 and easier over the years, its level of polish has remained much the same. The third franchise 
 being Metroid, which has retained its difficulty (up until the much easier Metroid Prime 3) and 
 level of fun. Mario being first and foremost has let its level of quality slip, turning out crappy 
 bowling, tennis, golf, and fighting games just about every other week. Expecting just another of 
 these, I put off buying the game for quite some time, letting my reserved copy all but gather dust 
 at the local Costco. It turns out that my fears were substantially ungrounded. 
  From its remarkable graphical presentation to its quirky (and often nauseating) gameplay elements, 
 Super Mario Galaxy hit home in so many ways that I personally consider it to be the best game in 
 the series since, dare I say it, Mario 64. The musical score, for one thing, is the best in the 
 series, and one of the best soundtracks to come out this year, perhaps only second to Bioshock 
 and Halo 3. But what gets annoying is the fact that none of the characters in the game have spoken 
 dialogue, just standard text. This seems to be a bit of a common factor in many Wii games, so that's 
 OK. The character models are fantastic as well, and coupled with beautifully done environments 
 and cut-scenes, I had to hesitate slightly to give the graphical portion of the game a mere 9. 
 But, even though there aren't many better looking Wii games around, it doesn't really show off 
 the system's visual capabilities. The gameplay is also excellent, but some pretty noticeable camera 
 issues really hurt it. Like the fact that in most areas, the camera is in a fixed position, so 
 quite often, a large cement pillar will fill the entire screen and all you'll be able to see of 
 Mario is his silhouette. This starts to kind of grate on your nerves after a bit, especially during 
 boss fights. But that's really just a minor issue considering how good the rest of it is. 
  
  The ultimate downfall of Super Mario Galaxy, and the main thing that kept this game from a 
 perfect 10, was that it can't decide whether it wants to be geared towards older or younger players. 
 It retains a very childlike innocence that is rare in this day and age. A very nice trait, but 
 older players will almost certainly find it annoying at some point or another. But on the other 
 hand, some of the game's 120 stars can be so frustrating and time consuming that I had to ask myself 
 whether younger players would find the game too hard. All in all, Galaxy is a fantastic game that 
 does the classic side-scroller perfect justice. Despite it's flaws and inconsistencies, it's one 
 of the best games of 2007, and indeed one of the best of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleigh316
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  I was not gaming when Super Mario 64 arrived on the scene, so I never got the chance to play one 
 of the best platformers in history. I was around for the release of Super Mario Sunshine, which 
 I really enjoyed. It was not until I purchased a Wii a few months ago that I got the chance to 
 play Super Mario Galaxy. And while I've always liked the Mario games, and the platform genre is 
 one of my favorites, I was a little disappointed with Super Mario Galaxy. Its good, has some interesting 
 level designs, brings back the suits from Mario 3, but overall I felt it didn't quite match its 
 predecessor, Mario Sunshine.
  
  The basis for Super Mario Galaxy should sound very familiar. Bowser kidnaps Peach, Mario sets out 
 to rescue her. Heard this before? This time Bowser also takes Peach's castle and flies it into 
 outer space, and with the help of Luma's (little stars) , Mario sets off into various galaxies to 
 find and rescue Peach. It's your standard Mario story. Instead of worlds, you now have galaxies, 
 and the levels are interconnected "planets" that you traverse until you get the star at the end. 
 If you've played Mario 64 and/or Sunshine, you should feel right at home. If you haven't, you should 
 at some point, otherwise, each level contains a star at the end, you have to get it. There are 
 120 stars in total, though you only need 60 to have enough to go after Bowser and rescue Peach.
 
  
  This time around, its back to basics combat-wise for Mario, which means no water pack. And since 
 the levels are various planets, the camera has changed since Sunshine. The camera in Galaxy is 
 more fixed, which is okay until you start circling the planets and start walking upside down, at 
 which point the controls can start getting a little backwards. Still, the fact that on most of 
 the planets you can walk all the way around is really cool. Moving from planet to planet usually 
 involves either an outlined star that shoots you to the next planet, or a blue star sphere that 
 pulls Mario towards it, at which point there are other blue stars you pull Mario to on route to 
 the next planet. Stomping enemies is still the best course of offense. Its made a little tougher 
 because it can be tougher to gauge the proper depth, especially when you're upside down. It doesn't 
 break the game however. In fact, very few things do bring SMG down to poor levels. One thing that 
 does however, is the Spring suit.
  
  Returning from Super Mario 3 are the different suits Mario can wear. Mario gets access to a Bee, 
 Boo, Spring, Fire, Ice, & Flying suits. Technically they are mushrooms, but they serve the same 
 purpose as the Mario 3 suits, so I'll call them that. The first one you get is the Bee suit, which 
 I thought was the best one. The Boo suit was also cool, you get that one later on. The worst one 
 by far is the Spring suit, which puts Mario in a spring and you start bouncing everywhere rather 
 than walking/running. To jump, you have to charge it up. The problem is that you can't stay still, 
 Mario is always bouncing around, which is tough in the levels you have to use the Spring because 
 you'll want to stop to avoid an enemy or position yourself for a jump, but you can't stop bouncing. 
 Its very aggravating. The fire & ice suits were okay, kind of annoying that they each have a timer, 
 so you are limited to how long you can use each. And the Flying one is actually a red star that 
 I only found in two areas, so that was extremely limited, but was still cool to use.
  
  The controls are what you would expect. The analog stick on the nunchuk controls movement, waggling 
 the Wii-mote does a spin attack, A jumps, B shoots tiny Star bits that you collect by point the 
 Wii-mote at them, and the D-Pad gives some camera control, but again its limited. The controls 
 were just fine, but like I said, they can get a tad crazy when Mario is upside down.
  
  The graphics are as good as the Wii can make them. That and its a Mario game, so the graphics will 
 look good, in an animated/cartoon sense. Mario looks good, the levels all look good, Mario in the 
 various suits looks very good, and the animations are also good. What else would you expect from 
 a Nintendo game. Same goes for the music and sound effects. Typical Mario themes throughout, very 
 little voice overs (only one or two) , and all the standard Mario sounds.
  
  Like the recent Mario titles, there is plenty of game here. Collecting all 120 stars, unlocking 
 Luigi (!) , and playing as Luigi to collect all 120 stars. The later levels of the game do add some 
 frustration, as you see Spring Mario way too much, and they were for me because I wanted to finish 
 the game. Also, the boss fights were pretty bland as you did the same thing to defeat each one. 
 I was disappointed here compared to Mario Sunshine which had a couple very cool boss battles. Still 
 it is a Mario game, they have a lot of replay value in and of themselves.
  
  Strangely, despite all the great reviews, I didn't like Super Mario Galaxy as much as I did Super 
 Mario Sunshine. Even then, this is a Mario title, they are well made, control very well, and have 
 plenty to do. I still liked Mario Galaxy, I didn't trade it in (and won't) , so maybe after some 
 time goes by, I'll go back for some more stars and realize how good it is. Or I'll want to play 
 Sunshine instead. Either way, it is Mario, they're always good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swytnezz
Rating: 7
Date: May 20, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  First off i was really excited about this game and i had to get it the first few days it was out. 
 But I played it for a few hours when i first played it. But I slowly stop playing it for long periods 
 of time. It would sometimes be no longer than 10 minutes. I couldnt figure out why i wasnt draw 
 to this game. I the graphics were top notch but it feel like i played this game before. Its call 
 Super Mario 64, with a pinch of Mario Sunshine.
  
  I was so bore with it after the first few level and i didnt want to play it anymore. Also at so 
 points the camera would be constantly moving or would be upside down and i would feel sick at times. 
 But if your a huge Mario fan then this is a much buy. But still think it lacks a little variety. 
 I prefer to play Mario Sunshine over this. I like that one much better.
  
  Pros:
  -Great Graphics on the Wii
  -Old fans wont have any trouble at all with controls
  -Old characters 
 make their way in
  
  Cons:
  -Swimming still blows
  -Lacks variety from other Mario games
  -Two player mode lacks as well
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariovslink1
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Galaxy has so much to offer, it has 40+ galaxies, 240+ stars (2 exclusive stars) epic boss battles, 
 incredibly good level design, and an amazing soundtrack.
  
  Graphics-the best graphics on the Wii, very detailed, very colorful, and very good graphics. the 
 lighting effect is good as well.10
  
  Sound-the music is orchastrated and it sounds fantastic!!10
  
  Gameplay-the gameplay is flawless, 
 controls work almost perfectly and the spin attack is a great feature in this game.10
  
  replayability-many stars to collect and the ability to play as luigi is a great feature.9.5
  
 
  the good-great graphics, gameplay, controls, sound, and replayability
  
  the bad-lack of difficulty in some levels, but the game does have some challange, and the game 
 is a bit too short.
  
  final score:10. get the game now! dont rent! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcleism01
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 20, 2008 3:11 am PT
Review:  When I walked into the game shop in Leeds city centre looking to buy a new game for my nintendo 
 wii I decided to choose either Super Paper Mario or Super Mario Galaxy and I decided to choose 
 Super Mario Galaxy, I am beggining to think I made the wrong choice. 
  You can't deny that there is a lot of gameplay and different settings to go through, well you would 
 expect there to be on a game where you can travel the whole universe. The gameplay is brilliant, 
 very simple, and it definitely makes good use of the wii remote without using it too much. But 
 there is something about the game that I don't like. Maybe it's the story of Mario rescuing Princess 
 Peach getting to repetitive. Maybe it's too hard. Maybe it's too easy. I don't know, the game is 
 perfect but for some reason I just don't like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaBrownie
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  No other game in existance can keep up with Mario, especially in this generation.
  
  You know the reason Nintendo waits years until they release their next game? It's because they 
 need to perfect everything in every way. This is one Wii game everyone should own who owns a Wii. No 
 other platformer can match the gameplay in this gem that's sure to be an instant classic. The physics 
 are great, the storyline as wacky as ever, the level designs are stunning for a Wii game, and the 
 controls are easy to learn and use.
  
  The feeling of flying from one planet to the next in anti-gravity is something amazing, and percise 
 controls make this game feel un-naturally synchronized with the player. Characters are cute and 
 lovable, and Mario never looked so great in 3D. This game is worthy enough to be called one of 
 the best games ever and the best game Nintendo ever made since Super Mario 64.
  
  The only problem with this game is the use of multiplayer. What's the use of adding it if all they 
 can do is shoot and stun enimies? Still, for that to be its only flaw is wonderfully amazing. The 
 story line is like every other Mario game: Bowser captured the Princess so it's up to you to restore 
 peace and rescue her from his evil hands. But since Mario games are some of the best games ever, 
 no one really cares about repetitive storylines.
  
  If you haven't played this game yet, then hop to it! No one should miss out in this heaven of a 
 game. Mario did for Nintendo as Master Chief did for Microsoft, and that's make one helluva great 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: helium_flash
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 20, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy has been the Wii game all old-school fans have been waiting for since Super 
 Mario 64 on the N64 over 10 years ago. After Super Mario Sunshine, Nintendo fans were left wanting 
 a true sequel to the game, and here it is! The game starts out with Mario receiving a letter from 
 Princess Peach to attend the Star Festival, which celebrates a comet flying by the planet once 
 every one-hundred years. However, Bowser has other plans, and invades the festival. He calls upon 
 a giant ship, which tears the Mushroom Kingdom Castle off the ground and into space, taking Princess 
 Peach with him. Mario then takes after Bowser, and catapults after his nemesis into space. He awakens 
 on a strange planet, and must begin his adventure.
  
  Like all other Super Mario games, the gameplay revolves around collecting stars. After awakening 
 on the planet, Mario meets a strange woman named Rosalina, who takes him to her Observatory, which 
 serves as your access point to other galaxies. Rosalina is constantly surrounded by Luma, which 
 are little star shaped objects that revolve around the observatory. As more Power Stars are collected, 
 more Luma appear in the observatory. Mario must travel to these galaxies and collect the Grand 
 Star in them, which powers the Observatory. Once Mario has collected enough power for Rosalina's 
 ship, he is able to travel to the center of the universe and battle Bowser to save Princess Peach 
 and the universe itself.
  
  Just like Nintendo did for Super Mario 64, Nintendo managed to create an innovative way to use 
 the Wiimote and Nunchuck to play Super Mario Galaxy. This is probably where Super Mario Galaxy 
 fails the most. Unfortunately, many quests can seem very similar or repetitive. There is little 
 variance between the boss battles in the entire game. Many boss battles are lackluster, and can 
 be over within a few minutes. The "been there, done that" mantra applies directly to this game. 
 Some galaxies are simply cliche in their tasks, and make you wish that you could skip the galaxy 
 entirely.
  
  In terms of controlling Mario, the Nunchuck controls the movement of Mario while the Wiimote controls 
 what Mario does. There are multiple ways to attack enemies, each with varying degrees of success 
 depending on each monster you face. For some enemies, like a Goomba, jumping on them by pressing 
 the A button works perfectly. Another way is to Ground Pound them by pressing the Nunchuck's trigger 
 button. An entirely new way is to use a Spin technique by simply flicking the Wiimote. This causes 
 Mario to spin around shortly, usually stunning or repelling the enemy (or object) you attacked. 
 Mario also returns with most of his other abilities, most notably his acrobatic jumping. He is 
 still able to do wall jumps and other such somersaults. Another new feature unique to Galaxy is 
 the Pointer that appears on the screen, simply by pointing the Wiimote at the television. This 
 is usually used simply to collect Star Bits, which are small, round objects. These Star Bits can 
 be used to stun enemies by aiming at them and pressing the B button to fire one unit at them. They 
 can also be used to feed Hungry Luma, or affect objects. The controls in Galaxy work smoothly, 
 although sometimes there is some lag when performing Spin Techniques by Mario. This is mostly due 
 to the Wiimote not being pointed at the screen, and therefore not being picked up by the sensor 
 bars.
  
  The graphics in Super Mario Galaxy are the best on the Wii. Period. This is the game that has set 
 the bar for all others games for challenge on the Wii. All levels are very colorful and look beautiful. 
 Everything looks smooth and fits in with its respective environment. Each environment is unique 
 too. Some levels will be larger than others. Some levels will simply be a conglomerate of many 
 little planets, while others will be a few large sized planets. The level design is really innovative 
 and is very fun to explore. Special galaxies, which are found in mysterious boxes, are very unique, 
 and sometimes use the Wiimote in special and creative ways. In one such galaxy, the Wiimote served 
 as a joystick. The direction that the Wiimote pointed towards is the direction that Mario would 
 walk. The galaxy provided an new and innovative way to play the game. Unfortunately, one wishes 
 that there were more of these special galaxies.
  
  Each planet comes with its own level of gravity, which pulls Mario to its surface. The gravity 
 adds another layers of gameplay to itself, and creates new challenges to overcome. Because of the 
 spheroid shape of the planets, the camera angle can become inconvenient, and is oftentimes in a 
 fixed position, forcing the player to deal with the angle. The controls can become inversed when 
 you are on the underside of a celestial body, which can cause short periods of confusion. Fortunately, 
 the camera is generally in a good position and won't have to be bothered with usually. The controls 
 can become inversed when you are on the underside of a celestial body, which can cause short periods 
 of confusion. 
  
  In terms of what you hear, Super Mario Galaxy has a wonderful soundtrack. There are many new soundtracks, 
 each composed by an orchestra. The audio is one of the best parts of the game, and fits each component, 
 from Mario's attacks to the background to each level. The music is very enjoyable and can be trumpeted 
 as some of the best audio on any Wii game.
  
  A totally new feature to a Super Mario game is a multiplayer mode. It is very simple to access. 
 All the second player has to do is turn on the Wiimote and they are ready. It is very simple to 
 do. The second player use the pointer to collect Star Bits, shoot Star Bits, or freeze certain 
 enemies bye pressing the A button on them, allowing the first player to destroy it. It can provide 
 great help in certain situations, but doesn't add much depth to the game.
  
  There are some other new features to the game. One new feature is the addition to comets, which 
 provide different challenges on some stages. These challenges range from beating the stage with 
 a time limit, to racing a dark copy of yourself to a Power Star. Another new addition is Luigi. 
 Some stages will task you in rescuing your helpless brother, who in turn will provide you with 
 another Power Star. The new additions are gladly accepted, and one wishes there were more.
  
  At the end of the day, Super Mario Galaxy is another amazing platformer that will become an 
 instant cIassic. Unfortunately, the game is knocked down a few pegs due to the repetitiveness of 
 the missions, and the lack of new additions. Galaxy, however, sports some amazing visuals and music, 
 and will leave you satisfied at the end. Super Mario Galaxy fulfills its promise as Super Mario 
 64's sequel and sets the standards for all future Wii games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atom1cPunk
Rating: 9
Date: May 18, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  m here to rate a game i got a couple of weeks ago super Mario galaxy. Now this game is pretty good 
 for a Mario game i mean i am a shooter but this really interested me. It has very good 3-d graphics 
 even though people always put down wii graphics this is none the less a great game. You are Mario 
 who has to save princess peach again... from the clutches of bowser but this time its in space. 
 In my eyes this is a space remake of super Mario 64 but you can decide that yourself. This game 
 has complex level designs where you are on planets most of the time. And you have to collect 120 
 stars in order to beat the whole game that should keep me going for a while. The only bad thing 
 i can say about this game is that you have to go back to every galaxy finding secret stars and 
 playing comet challenges. Right now i beat bowser for the last time and it was worth it but its 
 not over yet. All in all i give this game a 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilarchie232
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 19, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Mario has been an icon in the video game industry since his debut back on the arcade machines in 
 Donkey Kong, and over the years he has made great strides in the platforming genre to add new and 
 innovative experiences to each of his games. This still holds true for Super Mario Galaxy as it 
 offers one of the most refreshing experiences in gaming, and brings alot of new interesting ideas 
 to the table. 
  
  First off Mario has a new polished looked to him, and the environments you explore really are a 
 graphical showcase for what the wii is capable of.
  
  The same basic story exists in Mario galaxy, Princess Peach is kidnapped by Bowser, go save her. 
 However when you hit the Atmosphere in chase of Bowser you are blasted away from Bowser's clutches 
 and land in an interesting place, where you meet someone new. I hope that didn't give away to much 
 of the story.
  
  In terms of Control everything feels natural. Galaxy controls just as tight as previous endeavors 
 and in no way are there any forced waggle motions. There is also use of the pointer functionality 
 where you can point at objects and then interact with them. 
  
  Game play wise there alot of new and interesting ideas. One of the new ideas Galaxy adds to its 
 formula is gravity. You will come across different levels of gravity and they will flip you according 
 the arrow that indicates the direction of how the force flows. Also a new concept that is introduced 
 is that if your jump from the object that you are positioned close enough to another object its 
 gravitational force will suck you onto that objects surface. 
  
  Also, there are new three new stars introduced throughout the game. First are Grand Stars which 
 you acquire at the end of each Galaxy that you complete, these stars help to power the vessel that 
 you travel on. Second there are Pull Stars that act as a sling shot in the game, in the fact that 
 they shoot you from Pull Star to Pull Star. Finally there are Launch Stars that upon shake of the 
 wiimote will blast you into different ares of the level. While you still collect coins in Galaxy 
 like in all other games before it, you now also collect Starbits which are used as a kind of currency 
 and food in the game. What i mean by this is that in the game you feed your Starbits to little 
 Luma's which are the inhabitants of the game, and they will often form new galaxy's after a said 
 amount is given to them.
  
  Also there are a handful of new suits introduced into Galaxy this time around. Old favorites like 
 the fire flower, and wing cap are back along with a bunch of new ones. The Bee suit transforms 
 you temporarily into a bee that lets you fly around levels and stick to surfaces. However be aware 
 of water because it will cancel the suit out. Another new suit is the Boo suit which lets you turn 
 into a mustachioed boo and hover around and pass through walls. Rounding out the new suits is the 
 ice suit, that for a limited time allows you to freeze water and skate and icy surfaces.
  
  Galaxy's music is absolutely phenomenal, it is all fully orchestrated and offers some of the most 
 memorable tracks in the series, and some neat remixes of old favorites.
  
  There is also a very limited Co-op mode integrated in the game where player two offers help to 
 player one by collecting Starbits and shooting them back at enemies. The above actions are acted 
 by player one in single player anyway but offers some fun up to maybe a more casual player. 
  
  The complaints i have about Galaxy are few and far between. I guess the biggest one is that 
 the camera isn't very reliable, but all things considered it still does a good job of following 
 you around. 
  
  All in all Super Mario Galaxy is an amazing new experience that is a must play for all Wii owners 
 or fans of the series in general. Really my little review shouldn't have swayed you to purchase 
 galaxy, it is a great game that everyone should play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicBalla
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely outstanding. It definitely deserves it's title of GOTY 2007. If you are 
 a Wii owner this is the one and only must have game for the Wii. As good as SSBB, MKW, MOH2, and 
 all the other high rated games this is the one game you have to have or get. The gameplay in this 
 is incredible. You'll find yourself playing this game at 3 in the morning just because its so fun 
 and smooth. The game doesn't over-use or under-use the Wii-mote, well at least to me. The sound 
 is one of the many things that makes this game amazing. The music is so....... lovable. I mean your 
 going to want to play every stage over and over again because the music just feels so soothing 
 or just fun to listen to. The one which I think stands out from the rest is Spacejunk from Spacejunk 
 galaxy is has beauty on every note. The graphics are Wii's best. Some people might actually feel 
 like if they're in space while playing this. The galaxies look so beautiful you'd want to adventure 
 in them over again just like how you'll want to play them over because of the music. I don't know 
 how long the game would last you I mean for me it lasted 2 months but that's just me I take my 
 time. So in conclusion I'd say buy it, you'll love it and you'll treasure it so if you don't have 
 it what are you waiting for GET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amesomeness
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 17, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is an amazing gam. It has the best graphics on the wii. The game is also revolutionary. 
 Galaxy has great boss fights. The only complaints i have about this game is that it is wayyyyyyyy 
 too easy and coop is not what i wanted it to be but it is still fun. Galaxy is a game you have 
 to play to see how it is. This is the best mario game like this since Mario 64. It is way better 
 than sunshine. After you beat it theres ot much more that will keep you from coming back. You could 
 win the game when you get 60 stars but if yu get 120 stars you unlock Luigi. If you get 120 stars 
 with Luigi you get an extra level so in total there is 121 stars. A must get for the  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryBomber5
Rating: 10
Date: May 12, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Super mario galaxy may be one of the best adventure games out there. It's just that amazing... 
 And if you haven't played it yet, you really should! 
  
  Gameplay 9.8/10 - The gameplay is similar to super mario 64. With the wii remote & numchuck, it's 
 a lot different. You use the wii remote to jump with A, and you use B to shoot out star-bits. You 
 use the arrows to change the view of the camera and ect. Also, there is a new spin move, which 
 can be performed by simply shaking the wii remote and numchuck. The numchuck lets you move mario 
 with the analog stick. While your running, you can use Z to make marios jump long. The C button 
 is just to move the camera so it faces mario's back. Thats about it for the controls, it's simple, 
 and it's awesome!
  
  Sound 10/10 - The sound is just amazing, some of the music in the different galaxies are just amazing. 
 My favorite music is from the beach bowl galaxy! They did a great job making the music, you'll 
 never get tired of it.
  
  Graphics 10/10 - The graphics are hands down, AMAZING. This game probably has the best graphics, 
 simply because it's that good. Sometimes I actually stopped playing just to look at the graphics. 
 The graphics are a huge part of the game, simply because there THAT good. 
  
  Overall 10/10 - This game is definitely a must have, it's one of the best adventure games you'll 
 ever encounter! With over 40 different, unique galaxies, amazing graphics and sound, super mario 
 galaxy is simply a must have game. It's that GOOD! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HumanIce2
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 12, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  I wish I could give this game a better score. but playing this game is just annoying. bheehoo! 
 It's a me mario!! wohhoooyayaya!
  it's best to play this game by turning the volume all the way down, and listen to Ipod while playing 
 it.
  the orchestra soundtrack doesn't fit this gameplay and it makes the game rushy and annoying. and 
 yeh, the best word for this game is "rushy"
  you're never just chilling around in this game. you're always moving and a lot of action.
  and 
 if you're not into kiddy games or believes the word "kiddy" exists, don't even bother picking this 
 game up because it's 0% manly, just gay and kiddy.
  and this game was kinda meant to be fun. but from where I'm playing it, in the creepiest place 
 on earth in my room as a teenager. it just makes you look bad playing this game, lol.
  but anyway, you're jumping around galaxies, playing this game is like this, you want to fight bowser 
 SO BAD that you continue playing it more and more. only to find out the boss battles are always 
 NOT bowser, and usually just disappointing. the little star things in this game look like some 
 sweet candy, but I hate sweet candy. and this game just isn't hardcore enough. if you look at Mario 
 64, it was hardcore in some way, and that final bowser fight in 64 was pretty cool.
  but if you look at the trailer, you're pretty much seeing the whole game. 1 trailer, 1 little footage 
 is all you need. NO not a fire Mario footage because you barely even get to play as fire Mario! 
 just for about 2 seconds and you get to do that about 2 times in the game.
  but when I think of some good Mario experience, I think about the endings, bowser, and lava everywhere. 
 this game doesn't have much of that.. well, actually it does. but IN A GAY WAY.
  this game gets a 6.5 from me. you play this game once, and never plays it again. might play it 
 again if you haven't got all the stars, but when you're done with that you'll never play it again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giga-man
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 11, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  At first glance I thought: "ah well. Here comes another attempt to revive the Super Mario 64 era. 
 Lemme see what Nintendo shells out this time..."
  
  The moment I saw that little fat man run around those planetoids... I was speechless.
  
  Needless 
 to say, you can basically see that I'm very impressed. Nintendo has finnaly struck gold (again) 
 with good old 'fatty Mario. Mainly, the biggest and juiciest part of the game is level design. 
 The intricate loops and jumps and the view of the universe is just breath taking.
  
  I am truly amazed at the graphics Galaxy displayed. Not just "good for the Wii" graphics, but beautiful 
 and artisic. The almost trippy amount of bright colors and the lighting make the world seem to 
 come alive, the mysterious "glow" emanating from every single object adds to the "epic factor" 
 of the game.
  
  The controls are very easy to learn, but difficult to master. Jumping at the right moment takes 
 time and practice (and lot'sa controller bashing) ; but the game is pieced together very well and 
 it's one of the greatest video games I have ever played. ever.
  
  But why not a perfect score, if it's such a great game?
  
  - (SPOILER ALERT) -
  
  Because 
 if anyone tries to bother finishing the entire game with Mario AND Luigi AND all of 121 stars, 
 you will find that Nintendo politely gives you a "congrats for gettin' all the stuff, now go get 
 a life" message. So, in short, there is no reward. So don't bother finishing the entire game.
 
  
  Other than that, it's a beautiful and extraordinary game and was a pleasure to play. 
  
  Message to people who aren't sure if they want to buy it:
  
  BUY THE GAME!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: betsyfay
Rating: 10
Date: May 11, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  In 1996 Nintendo revolutionized gaming with super Mario 64. The game naild 3D gameplay and ose 
 one of the most revolutionary, if not the most revolutionary game (S) of all time, the only other 
 game that might have been more revolutionary was Zelda OoT. It became a classic. Now, Nintendo 
 has recaptured that feeling and perfected it with Super Mario Galaxy.
  
  
  Gameplay: Like almost all mario games Bowser has kidnapped peach and this time he has taken the 
 castle into space and mario goes after her. He meets a charecter named Rosalina who helps him out 
 on his journy. mario travels to many different planetoids and fights many familiar and new enemys. 
 You simply shake the wii remote to make mario spin which can let him take out enemys or break objects 
 or even launch into stars. You can also point the wii mote at the screen to pick up star shards. 
 The game feels like mario but also has a very inovative feel to it. Gravity plays a huge roll in 
 the game as you go upside down, rite side up, inside out, and all over the place. It also features 
 many fun bosses which might not be the most chalenging but are alot of fun. You also get different 
 abilitys like turning into bee mario, boo mario, and other transformations. Somebody else can also 
 join in and pick up a wiimote to help you on the adventure. You can collect 120 stars in the game 
 but you can beat it with only 60, however you will definetly be motivated to collect all 120 since 
 it can unlock another secret and because the game is just amazingly fun to play and come back to. 
 There is alot of variety in the levils also. You have the galaxys where you hop from one planetoid 
 to another, and you also have the more traditional mario levils that are big. You go under water, 
 over lava, through astroids, and a bunch of other crazy fun locations. There are many great things 
 to mention about the gameplay but the most important thing is that it is just very fun and will 
 keep you coming back.
  
  presentation: The game has nice menus, nice cutscenes, and a great musical score, it also has co 
 op.
  
  Graphics: The best graphics currently on the wii. Beutifall texturwork combined with huge particle 
 effects and big draw distances. It also features advanced lighting effects, nice explosions, and 
 alot of other stuff. Mario is more detaild and well animated than ever, as well as all the other 
 charecters, like bowser whos hair moves in the wind. It all runs at 60 frames per second and in 
 480p widescreen. The art desighn is Georgus. The levils and enemys are all uniqe and different 
 looking. The boss desighns are creative, and much more. It is simply georgus.
  
  Sound: It features a brilliant musical score, much of it is orchestrated. The galaxys all have 
 their different sounds to them and some of the new musical peices are very catchy and some are 
 even epic, like bowsers battle theme, the melty molten galaxy, the space jump galaxy, and many 
 others.
  
  Replay value: There are 120 stars you can get and then unlock another secret. It is also such a 
 great game that you will definetly want to play it more than once.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is one of the Greatest games ever created and is the best 3D maio game to date. 
 It does nearly everthing right and there are not many games in this generation that will give you 
 this lasting fresh feeling. It is a true must buy. Get It if you have a wii, and if you do not 
 have a wii, get one and get this Game. It is one of the best games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gasuni
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 10, 2008 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Once upon a time...
  
  Mario does it again...
  
  I'm a Nintendo player since the beginning: Mario Bros. and the only thing i can say is that the 
 geniuses at Nintendo not only revolutionized console gaming since the original "Nintendo" they 
 have change the way we play for generations, they brought 2D and then 3D, they gave us touch with 
 DS and now full motion with Wii..
  
  Mario Galaxy brings a new aspect to console gaming, as always it's not only the graphics or the 
 power of Nintendo consoles is always the new way of playing that they bring with them every 10 
 years or so. I'm a 34yrs old gamer or should i say 34yrs old "kid" gamer lol and I felt now the 
 same way i felt +20 years or so when i played Mario Bros. for the first time, now the joy is even 
 greater because I bought the Wii for my Daughter she's 3 1/2 yrs. old and she's mastered the DS 
 and Mario in the Gamecube, but when she saw Galaxy she got very very exited.. as i am.. Still she 
 needs more time to learn how to use the new Wii controllers but i have no doubt that she'll master 
 them in a very short time.
  
  Nintendo Wii revolutionary way of playing, not only makes it's games more fun and exiting but also 
 brings a new way of spending time with family and friends and even strangers with it. 
  
  Nintendo was and still is a Family console.
  
  Thank you Mario !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Live_Master_S
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Super Mario Galaxy has a special power. It's a game that balances old with new with such confidence 
 that in one moment, the nostalgic themes and musical score convince you that you're a five year 
 old who is fascinated by pressing a single button and watching Mario jump, and in the next moment, 
 when Mario zooms through the lush atmosphere of space, you are reminded that you're actually a 
 nineteen year old who is having as much fun as you did when you first played Super Mario Bros. 
 on the NES. 
  
  Story-9.0
  
  The story is your standard Mario fare. It begins in the Mushroom Kingdom as Mario whimsically prances 
 around the castle and heads toward the main gate after receiving a cordial invitation from none 
 other than Princess Peach. As the celebration gets warmed up by fireworks (that are reflected by 
 the water in stunning detail might I add) , the celebration is abruptly interrupted by a plethora 
 of flying ships commanded by the treacherous Bowser and his son, Bowser jr., who are both intent 
 on stealing the Princess. Mario heroically gallops toward the castle as Peach waits atop the balcony 
 and helplessly cries for help. 
  
  For the two or three people who haven't been keeping up with Super Mario Galaxy, or for the English-speaking 
 individual who doesn't know what the word Galaxy means, you're in for a real treat in the form 
 of a plot-twist. If you're one of the few people who haven't been keeping up, don't read ahead 
 unless you want to me spoil an essential part of the game's story
  
  Mario ventures into space for the first time! Okay, okay, perhaps it's not the most shocking twist 
 we've ever seen in a story, but for what the game lacks in its story it more than makes up for 
 in its gameplay (which will be discussed further below) . 
  
  Aside from the main plot (man saves princess) , there is an additional "story time" segment in the 
 game that very dramatically tells the story of how the Lumas and Rosalina (a Princess Peach lookalike 
 you meet and befriend) got to where they are in space. Thankfully, story time is optional, which 
 is great, because it is somewhat of a chore to sit through and had it been forced, it would have 
 ruined Super Mario Galaxy's otherwise flawless presentation. 
  
  
  Controls-10
  
  The adventure kicks off after Mario lands on a tiny spherical planet in space, and the player takes 
 full control of him. You'll immediately notice when beginning to play the game the ease at which 
 Mario can be maneuvered. The controls are on point and very responsive. Moving Mario is as easy 
 as pointing the nunchuk's analog stick in the direction you want Mario to move, while jumping is 
 as easy as pressing the A button on the wiimote. Mario's special somersaults and long jumps can 
 easily be performed by using a combination of the analog stick and Z button on the nunchuk and 
 the A button on the wiimote. 
  
  This all sounds self-explanatory and that's because it is. However, there are also some unique 
 elements that Nintendo added to the game in order to take full advantage of Nintendo Wii's motion 
 sensing technology. For example, to jump from star to star, the player only needs to gently shake 
 the wiimote when Mario is near a star so that he flies from one planet to another. When Mario is 
 not near a star, shaking the wiimote will initiate his new spin move which is useful for stunning 
 enemies, breaking glass, turning switches, among other special moves. Additionally, the wiimote's 
 pointer allows the player to control a star on-screen known as the star pointer that is used to 
 collect star bits. These star bits can be used to shoot and stun enemies by pointing the star pointer 
 at them and pressing the B button on the wiimote.
  
  Gameplay-10
  
  Take Mario 64's superb gameplay, change the setting to space, add innovative and groundbreaking 
 controls, and you have the essence of Super Mario Galaxy's gameplay. Because the game is set in 
 space, Nintendo has created an ingenious physics system featuring every planet having its very 
 own gravitational pull that affects Mario's position on each planet. Thus, Mario can walk on surfaces 
 sideways, backwards, forwards, upside down, etc. The game is primarily three dimensional, but there 
 are moments where Mario is confined to a two dimensional space that oftentimes adds interesting 
 dynamics to the gameplay. 
  
  You would think that walking sideways and backwards would be a chore, but thankfully, the physics 
 never get in the way of the gameplay thanks in large part to the groundbreaking camera system. 
 About eighty percent of the time, the camera will be fixed on the best possible position so that 
 Mario is always visible and the player can control him without having to worry about positioning 
 the camera his or herself. The other twenty percent of the time, the player has the option of controlling 
 the camera by using the C button on the nunchuk, but its use is seldom necessary. 
  
  Going back to Mario's original roots, he can now collect power ups that allow him to proceed further 
 into his mission. Some of the power ups are classics, like the fire flower that changes the color 
 of Mario's suit to white and gives him the ability to shoot fireballs from his fists. There are 
 also some new and welcome additions to Mario's arsenal like the ghost and spring power ups. The 
 ghost power up, like the names implies, transforms Mario into a Ghost, allowing him to float and 
 go through walls. The spring power up allows Mario to jump higher so that he can reach the hard 
 to reach platforms in the game. In all, there are eight power ups that each add to the game's charm 
 and fun factor. 
  
  The game's objective, like in Mario 64, is to collect power stars in order to power the Comet Observatory 
 and use it as a ship to reach Princess Peach and rescue her. The Comet Observatory serves as the 
 game's main hub from where Mario can access the different galaxies, typically through what are 
 known as domes. These domes grant access to the different worlds in which Mario can explore and 
 collect more Power Stars. Other means of collecting Power Stars include feeding the Hungry Lumas 
 with the star bits you collect. The Lumas will then transform into their own planets that house 
 a fun and exciting mini-game/mission.
  
  The game also supports cooperative play. If you have an extra wiimote lying around, a second player 
 can join you as he helps you collect star bits by pointing his star pointer on the screen. The 
 second player can also help you impede enemy movement so that it is easier to jump on top of their 
 heads. Finally, the second player can also help Mario jump higher by initiating a double jump while 
 he's in the air. Overall, the cooperative play is a welcome addition, but doesn't add too much 
 to the gameplay, and sometimes can be annoying if the second player constantly makes Mario jump 
 when you don't want him to.
  
  Graphics-9.5
  
  Super Mario Galaxy proves that the Nintendo Wii's hardware shortcomings don't necessarily mean 
 that it can't have beautifully crafted games. Super Mario Galaxy, although by no means a technical 
 showcase (to the degree that Gears of War, Crysis, Uncharted, etc. on more powerful platforms are) , 
 still boasts a unique and visually stimulating world thanks in large part to its art direction 
 and style. The gorgeous and grandiose spatial backdrops, shimmering stars, and foreboding black 
 holes render an atmosphere that is unlike anything we've ever seen. 
  
  What makes Super Mario Galaxy such an impressive sight to behold is the sheer volume of things 
 to see. One of my major complaints with Super Mario Sunshine was the lack of variation in the environments 
 as each world seldom strayed away from the tropical beach setting. In Super Mario Galaxy, each 
 galaxy exudes its own personality and its own style. Some galaxies are filled with devastatingly 
 hot lava, while others are filled with chillingly cold ice. It doesn't just stop there. There are 
 deserts, beaches, planets floating in the sky, underwater levels, and much more. The variation 
 in the environments is astounding and brings back the much needed flavor of Mario 64 and all of 
 its predecessors that Super Mario Sunshine lacked. 
  
  The variations in enemies, on the other hand, are unfortunately uninspired and uninteresting. Most 
 of the enemies in the game are either goombas or some variation thereof and pose no challenge. 
 The bosses are typically some animal or plant that takes about three hits to the weak spot to kill. 
 The animations are quite solid, but nothing spectacular. Mario runs and jumps as we have come to 
 expect and love, the enemies move fluidly, albeit a bit too simply. I was hoping that with the 
 dramatic shift in the environment, Nintendo could have come up with some more interesting space 
 enemies. Still, I am nitpicking here because the enemies are not the main obstacle that Mario is 
 faced with, but rather, the platforms are, and considering that the platforms are part of what 
 make the environment great, the experience is not negatively affected too much by the tried and 
 true enemies. 
  
  Sound-10
  
  The sound effects in the game are simple but very appropriate. Every "Hoo" and "Ha" that Mario 
 chants after every jump is pleasing to the ear as is every "pop" or "boop" after jumping on top 
 of enemies' heads. But the sound effects by themselves don't contribute too heavily to my score 
 of 10. The reason why the sound is so unbelievable is because in Super Mario Galaxy, Nintendo has 
 finally embraced live orchestrated music, and with stunning results. The truth of the matter is, 
 had Nintendo even used the MiDi format (which is the old-fashioned, digitized format) , the scores 
 written for Super Mario Galaxy are so fantastic that I still would have given the sound a 9.9 with 
 my only complaint being that the music wasn't orchestrated. 
  
  I'd like the music to do the talking for me, so here's a clip of Nintendo's orchestra playing one 
 of my all time favorite songs ever written from the Gusty Garden Galaxy in the game. 
  
  http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=pqBfsdGrn8s
  
  
  Lasting Appeal-10
  
  With so much to 
 see and hear, and with 120 stars to collect, Super Mario Galaxy should bring you more hours of 
 fun than most other games on the market. Overall, the game should take approximately fifteen hours 
 on your first run-through; however, that's only after collecting the first sixty stars (which are 
 quite easy to obtain and are all that are necessary to complete the story) . The remaining stars 
 prove to be more challenging to collect and will add at least fifteen to twenty hours more to the 
 gameplay. Achieving all 120 stars is a goal to strive for as the reward is much better than Super 
 Mario 64's 100 additional lives. 
  
  Final deliberation- 10
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is by far one of the best experiences of this generation so far. The game was 
 full of moments where I was jumping with excitement (and with Mario) , awing at every spectacle, 
 gasping for air after every close call, humming after every tune, and feeling like I was a five 
 year old again. If a game has the power to bring back good memories of your childhood without feeling 
 ashamed of it, then you know you know you're playing a gem of a game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiwillstand
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 10, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  A long long time ago, in a galaxy not so far away, the great princess of the Mushroom Kingdom, 
 Peach Toadstool, was kidnapped by the evil Koopa king, Bowser . . . What a familar situation this 
 is, right? Wrong! This time, you grab hold of the Wiimote and Nunchuk, and with Mario at your command, 
 you blast off into outer space to fight the Koopa army, and find Peach!
  
  The game starts off with the Star Festival of the Mushroom Kingdom, the great event that celebrates 
 a comet that passes the planet every hundred years. Raining down from the comet, are shiny rock-like 
 formations called Star Bits. Princess Peach invites Mario to the celebration, but just as he arrives, 
 Bowser and his Airships arrive to crash the party. They destroy Toad Town, and then abduct Peach, 
 along with her castle. The next minute, Mario finds himself stranded on a lone planet, being greeted 
 by baby star called Lumas. You are then told by a mysterious princess named Rosalina, that Bowser 
 has taken Peach to the center of the universe, and the only way to reach them is to collect 120 
 Power Stars.
  
  From this moment, you are thrown into an amazing Mario game. The story advances, and you get hooked, 
 and are determined to collect every star. What makes this game so amazing is its replay value. 
 You can go back and play any level you desire, and still get the same fun out of it.
  
  Now into the technical details. The graphics for this game (though uncomparible to many games) 
 are amazing for a Mario game. They maintain the cartoon-like designs we've seen in a Mario game 
 before, but add more shape and detail. In some situations, the edges are jagged, but they are still 
 acceptable. All in all, the graphics are great, and don't ruin the enjoyment of the game itself.
 
  
  Perhaps one of the most memorable things about this game is its soundtrack. It is quite possibly 
 the greatest soundtrack to ever be used in a Mario game. From the adventurous space themes, to 
 the epic battle tracks, this album has so much variety, and feeling, it will make you wonder why 
 all video games don't have a soundtrack like this. Some of the best moments are nostalgic ones; 
 when you get reprises of old Mario tunes. If you enjoy like video game music, you'll love this 
 soundtrack.
  
  A nice little addition to the game is co-op. Though it doesn't offer much to the gameplay itself, 
 it makes it more fun for anyone in the room that's just sitting there doing nothing. The firstp 
 layer will control Mario as they usually would, meanwhile, the second player will controller a 
 cursor on the screen, in which they can add a boost to Mario's jumps, paralyze enemies, and more. 
 It's good fun, and can get people into the game.
  
  The controls for this game are very intuitive. You can use the Wiimote as a cursor to grab hold 
 of star-paths, and to shoot star bits at foes. Also, you can easily shake it, and Mario will perform 
 a spin attack. They're controls that have been seen in previous games, but really feel fluent, 
 and fun.
  
  The overall gameplay is great. As said, the replay value is amazing, but this game has redefined 
 platforming as we know it. One minute, you'll be walking on a flat surface, you'll jump over an 
 edge, and expect to fall to your demise, but you'l simply keep going, and land on the underside. 
 This doesn't apply in all levels, but in most it will. It adds an out-of-this-world feeling to 
 the gameplay.
  
  Now, the camera movements. can be a bit strange. There'll be many situations where you'll be upright 
 one moment, but then upside down the next. At first, your head will naturally want to turn upside 
 down to get a upright view, but over time you'll get used to it, and it'll become part of the game. 
 It's very different, but very enjoyable.
  
  There are so many things that I have yet to say about this game, but sadly, reviews can't last 
 forever. Super Mario Galaxy is an incredible game. It has amazing visuals, an incredible soundtrack, 
 a wonderful story/plot, and much more! From the beautiful opening, to the epic climax, this game 
 is perhaps one of the greatest Mario games of all, and should be experienced by gamers across the 
 universe! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilZOoLu
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Intro 
  
  Mario galaxy is 3-D, first party game that is outstandingly one of the best games on the wii. You 
 go through space search for the stars but this time there is a twist.... Your in space. Wel actually 
 i think this is a clever apporoch because star are in space. I always wanted this to happend and 
 now it did. I mario 64 it made no senes that the stars just fell out of the sky.
  Graphics 
  
  graphicly the game look likes a 360 game compares to the 480ip and 1080ip i dont know how nintendo 
 pulled it off running at 60fps. You can see bumping teaxures, shaine and reflect which really makes 
 this game a pure beautiful game. Its the best looking game on the wii
  Gameplay
  
  The game has so many interactive things you can do; it feels like your a super small mario in a 
 big world. Like in one of the galaxays you are in a little train and jumping aroung in blocks its 
 just so fun. The are apporimately 128 stars and over 50 galaxays. which puts about 20 hours of gaming. Your 
 still fighting bowser for princess peach, which sucks because dasiy is better
  Rating 
  
  Gamer type: harcore/casual
  
  graphics :10
  creativty :10
  sound :10 total: 10 perfect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerair
Rating: 9
Date: May 8, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is a great game, but I don't think it was the best game released in 2007. While 
 imaginative and creative, this game really didn't do anything groundbreaking. Sure, the gravity 
 system and concept is really unique, but not knock-your-socks-off amazing. The game doesn't deviate 
 far from the typical Mario platformer genre started in Mario 64. Get the stars, save the princess, 
 and once you beat Bowser, you can go back and collect the rest of the stars. This type of gameplay 
 is tried and true, but it's nothing new. Super Mario Galaxy takes this formula and puts several 
 new and exciting twists on to it, but it remains essentially the same. There's technically a multiplayer 
 mode, albeit very limited. I would have liked to see something like the Super Mario 64 DS multiplayer, 
 with both 4-player and WFC support. 
  Super Mario Galaxy is a classic, and easily one of the best games of 2007. However, its shortcomings 
 have led me to believe that it was not the best game of 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jirca87
Rating: 7
Date: May 6, 2008 12:03 am PT
Review:  I bought this expecting a game much like Super Mario 64, where each star and level were very different 
 and some were rather challenging to get. If you want to just get the bare minimum number of stars 
 to beat the final boss, then the game is fun, albeit just a touch too repetitive at times. 
  
  However, if you want to get every star, the game just becomes a tedious effort. Many of the 
 later stars are essentially gotten the same way as other ones. The comet stars (stars you must 
 get under extra conditions, such as low health, 100 coins, time limit, etc.) are fun at first, 
 but after the first few they all seem the same and don't offer anything to the game. 
  
  The vast majority of the stars are quite easy to obtain - some won't even take 3 minutes to get. 
 Some, though, are extremely frustrating to get, as one slip-up in a rather long level can cause 
 you to have to repeat the entire level, as is the case in the comet mission on each major galaxy 
 where you must find 100 purple coins.
  
  Overall, Super Mario Galaxy is a rather fun game for the first half, but once you beat Bowser, 
 the game becomes too tedious to be really enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariofan2008
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  I think that Super Mario Galaxy is a unique game that requires skills and fast fingers. Explore 
 the wonders of space while traveling with a plumber. Launch into galaxys and investigate the planets 
 one by one as you discover many secrets. Fly with the queen bee, race with cosmic Mario, walk upside 
 down with Luigi! If you don't have this game, you are missing a HUGE adventure! This game is 100% 
 fun, and challenges players with extreme bosses and unforgettable opsticles. Get ready for adventure, 
 'cause this game has loads of ACTION!!! Super Mario Galaxy has pipes, rabbits, coins, galaxys, 
 and more! The main adventure in this game is defeating bowser and rescuing Princess Toadstool. 
 What I'm trying to say is get dressed, get off that couch, and buy yourself a Super Mario Galaxy! 
 Hope you like my review! Bye! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: humantnt
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 4, 2008 2:46 am PT
Review:  This Weird And Wacky Game Really Goes Far, its Extremely Fun, Long, sometimes challenging and u 
 just gotta love the gravity 
  
  On this mario game u are usually in space going upside down, killing enemies, getting cool suits 
 just too get a star 
  
  i love all the suit upgrades, ice suit, fire suit, bee mario, Flying Mario + More
  This Game is 
 probably the best graphic'd game on the wii it is truly stunning..
  
  its level system is really well done and so is its storyline, bringing new characters and new ideas 
 to the mario world.
  
  Mario Games Have Always been a blast but this one is easily one of the greatest marios
  
  The 
 only bad thing i could find in this game is sometimes the gravity is hard to get used to when u 
 are new to that level, as there is so many levels.
  
  The boss fights are simple but really fun, the weird levels really make good use of the wii controls, and 
 the gravity.
  
  the camera angle is always moved perfect for u making it nice and smooth to move around without 
 being to hard to see
  
  their is a new system for galaxy, where u collect star bits which u use to buy health or a life 
 before boss fights, or u spend to unlock new galaxys
  
  once u finish galaxy u unlock luigi which doubles the game length making it double the fun
  
 
  everytime i play this game i get immediatley hooked
  super mario galaxy is definitly one of the best nintendo makes to date, A Must Buy For any wii 
 owner
  
  Real Score 9.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SfGiants11
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 3, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Bear with my everybody, because this review is going to seem unfairly negative to most of you. 
 I love Mario Galaxy, to clarify, but I feel like I have to say a few things to refute the general 
 consensus on what is, regardless, an incredible creation on the part of Nintendo. So here we go...
 
  
  It appears to me that some of the highest praise is directed at the incredible variety of areas 
 (planets?) in Mario Galaxy. Like Super Mario 64, SMG is built around a huge number of worlds, and 
 each of these worlds is unique and fun in their own way. It'll undoubtedly be obvious to all who 
 play this game that Nintendo put an unbelievable amount of effort and care into designing and crafting 
 each and every area in Super Mario Galaxy... However, there is a big "but" here. The difference 
 between the level design in Mario 64 and Mario Galaxy is that many of the areas in Mario 64 presented 
 a much tougher challenge, and therefore there was a much higher level of satisfaction in the completion 
 of those worlds. The variety of the planets in Mario Galaxy is astounding, no doubt, but I breezed 
 through every single area so darn quickly that I really don't remember any of the planets very 
 well at all... There was a really cool floating garden-ish world that was really beautiful, and 
 a cool floating toy thing, but that is pretty much it. I will never deny that I had a lot of fun 
 making my way through these areas, though. This does, however, bring me to my next qualm...
  
  ... The worlds are more linear than a Tom Clancy novel. There really isn't much exploration 
 to be had here, and exploration is an important aspect in a game for me. Just about every task 
 that Mario had to complete was really cool, and many times even awe-inspiring, but I never found 
 myself stopping to ask myself where I had to go next or how to get there. To a certain extent this 
 is really an extension of my disappointment with the lack of challenge, but it needs to be noted. 
 In the overall scheme of things, the whole package is so astoundingly original and downright amazing 
 that one can easily overlook these issues... I just feel like they need to be thrown out there.
 
  
  The gameplay in Galaxy is fantastic and well-polished in typical Nintendo fashion. Everything from 
 running and jumping to spinning by flicking the wii remote back and forth was pleasantly responsive 
 and well integrated into the level design. Super Mario Galaxy is a tough game to review because 
 it is so different (perhaps revolutionary) from all other platformers out there, and therefore 
 it just has to be experienced. It just feels so nice and fluid floating around the planetoids and 
 leaping from planet to planet... So many 3D platformers out there suffer from a sense of disconnect 
 and mis-timing in the way that players feel like they're traipsing from one dull location to the 
 next to collect a bunch of cliched items and whatnot. None of that here. Nintendo really nailed 
 the intangibles with Galaxy as well as the fundamentals of gameplay and graphics.
  
  And music, too. The tunes in Galaxy are truly fantastic and definitely fit the mold of an outerspace-themed 
 game. They aren't necessarily catchy like past Mario jingles, but they certainly add to the atmosphere 
 and engulfing aura of the game.
  
  For some reason I didn't have quite as much fun with Galaxy as I did with Sunshine, but I can understand 
 how almost everyone else is. My only issue with the game is the fact that it can be completed (as 
 in, defeating Bowser and collecting every star) without many hiccups. There is quite noticeably 
 a trend with the Wii and its affinity for easier games to attract wider and more casual audiences 
 (Twilight Princess, anyone?) , and this does take away from some of the enjoyment but nonetheless, 
 all Wii owners, and females too, need to pick up this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somadude
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  graphics 10/10
  The graphics in super mario galaxy blow away any other games on the wii with it's stellar lighting, color 
 and technical beauty. The game takes you through some of the most entertaining platform levels ever 
 created and it all looks amazing from giant boss battles to the little lumas galaxy is the wiis 
 game to beat.
  
  gameplay 10/10
  As far as gameplay goes galaxy definately shows the skill and experience that nintendo has with 
 platformers. Levels are huge and a bit daunting at times but once you get the feel for anti gravity 
 then these become second nature. Also you're gonna have to get used to it because you'll do things 
 like jumping from the bottom of somthing and ending up on the top of another platform it's things 
 ike these that make galaxy such a thrill to play. Simply put galaxy gets the platforming genre perfectly.
 
  
  sound 10/10
  Throughout galaxy you'll hear old and new tunes and there all beautilful and cheery and will bring 
 back memories of the early days of playing the first super mario. Sound effects are also nastalgic 
 and really sharp hearing marios signature woohoos will bring a smile to your face.
  
  value 10/10
  Another suprise is how many hours you can put in to galaxy with a straight play 
 trough lasting 20 hours or so and that being only a fration of all the things to get in the game 
 you could easily put 40+ hours into the game before fully completing it.
  
  the good
  The mario formula is still as great as ever, stellar graphics that show the power of the wii, mind 
 bending stages that will take your breath away, tons of value and unending charm
  
  the bad
  story could have been stronger. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamingtrooper44
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 3, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  Lets start off with the story on super Mario galaxy. The story in this game is among the best. 
 I love all the stories in Mario when browser steels peach but this one is the best. The whole space 
 idea I thought was great. It had a good story behind it. The story when you had to get enough was 
 great when you had to go into different places and blast off into different levels, which I thought, 
 was interesting.
  
  The levels in Super Mario Galaxy are great they put allot of thought into them and they all work 
 out great. There were a lot of obstacles just like plan old Mario and it was great. The suits that 
 Mario wares in this game I thought were interesting some were hard to play with but they were all 
 cool and fit into the levels. The graphics in this game are one of the greatest on the Wii so far.
 
  
  Mario in his new game has some improved moves like he can spin the new double jump back flip and 
 some others. In this game you can collect little gems that lay around all the levels. You can get 
 it by jumping or you can point the Wii remote at the stars and you automatically get them witch 
 was an easier way. I liked how they added the stars I thought it was a great addition. This game 
 really hit the spot when I saw that it was going to be held in space. It was a great idea and a 
 good addition to the series.
  
  I liked how in this game every base you go to has its own name and inside it looks like they called 
 it like the kitchen. In this game you have a little star that comes from this base in space that 
 helps you on your journey. He helps you do all your moves like spin and other thing I thought that 
 this idea that it follows you around was cool and I liked it. I like that you can go to the library 
 that when you go in Rosalina is there and tells you a story on how she became to come in space 
 and what here live story was I thought this was interesting and cool to know. Super Mario Galaxy 
 keeps on pulling you in for more action because you always want to see what is going to happen 
 when you collect all the stars even now that you are in space.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  Thanks goodness I rented this game with a free rental from Blockbuster as it took me about 5 days 
 of playtime to beat ti entirely (maybe 12-15 hours or so to beat) . This was an amazing game with 
 excellent graphics and awesome levels like nothing you have ever seen from a Mario game!
  
  You can tell a lot of time was spent on development of the levels, some will piss you off and be 
 tough and annoying when you duie a lot but in the end the game ia very gratifying to play and a 
 great experience! What keeps the game sweet is that there are so many levels out there to play 
 that nothing gets boring, its a new level each time and that makes things fun when you are not 
 doing the same repetitive crap like most crappy games, this one was layed out very well.
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone with a Wii as it by far one of the top games for the system 
 and is not to be missed. Unfortunately the game is on the Wii so you will not get 360 or ps3 graphics 
 but they are supurb from most of the Wii games out there. This would have to be the second best 
 game I have played on the Wii (behind RE4 of course) and it will stand up there for a while with 
 many games at the top for those who own and play the Wii.
  
  However for $50, I would recommend a simple rental of the game as you can beat it in under a week 
 if you cam play for 2-3 hours a day on it you should have it done in no time., because after that, 
 having a $50 paperweight doesn't appeal to me. Rent it, beat it and enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Story/Gameplay: 9/10
  - Interesting story that loosely ties itself with the game, story definitely does push the game 
 along. Gameplay is some of the best and most interactive that I've experienced in a long time. 
 Certainly never left me bored and never did get stuck at any point for too terribly long. Lots 
 of fun!
  
  Environment & Immersion: 10/10
  - Some of the best levels and environment that I've seen, at first I thought the whole space and 
 galaxy thing would be just odd, but it really impressed me how they managed to work it all together 
 so well. 
  
  Graphics/Physics: 9.5/10
  - Stunningly colorful and vibrant graphics, shading and lighting was almost flawless throughout 
 the entire game. The shooting stars and the ability to have the all around gravity on objects was 
 cool.
  
  Sound: 9.5/10
  - Music and sound effects were fantastic.
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 9/10
  - Other than occasional bad camera angles or awkward controls, 
 everything was tip-top.
  
  Replay value: 10/10
  - I could play this game through and through many times, very simular replay value to Super Mario 
 64.
  
  Value/Originality: 9.5/10
  - Style is simular to Super Mario 64 but still beats that game by a long shot. This game is worth 
 every penny that I paid.
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - Definately, 
 expecially to those classic Mario fans.
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - Anyone who owns a Wii.
  
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 
 9.5 - Stunningly colorfull and vibrant graphics, gameplay is entertaining and interactive for days 
 if not weeks. Great replay value. If you haven't played this game yet, go get it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vertiglug
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  I love this game, I haven't even gotten close to beating it and its already been a good 20 hours. 
 THe game leaves you wanting alot more. From the amazing levels to the near perfect game play, nothing 
 about this game is subpar. An Excellent story, the best mario game to come out since MArio 64. 
 I completly enjoy this game. It starts of with Bowser taking the princess from the mushroom kigdoms 
 anual star watching parade. It uses the wii remote perfectly, and leaves you wondering why more 
 games can't be as great as this one. Writing this review is making me go out and explore the vast 
 universe of this game even more. This game also uses an interesting gravity force that I have never 
 seen before on a system. I hope that more games will use this and I look forward to playing this 
 game even more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lild1425
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  In Super Mario Galaxy, there are only a few buttons that make the game simple and this simplicity 
 is where the game achieves its fun. The levels are more linear than they were in the 64 and GC 
 versions, but the this linearity actually makes Galaxy better than its other counterparts. The 
 worlds aren't too complex, but extremely creative. I am not a fan of platformers at all but the 
 quick but fun levels kept me engaged and actually enjoying the game quite a bit. The controlling 
 with the wiimote and nunchuk is top notch as one can scroll over "star bits" with the wiimote to 
 obtain them or shake the wiimote for Mario to spin and hit enemies. The variety of galaxies are 
 stunning and the boss battles are actually fun. 
  
  Story:
  The story is told through a storybook by progressing through the galaxies and unlocking chapters 
 in the book. Rosalina and the other stars are good additions to the Mario franchise. The story 
 is a f"eel good "story that we come to expect. As one might expect, the story is based on Bowser 
 capturing Princess Peach. Unlike the other Mario games, Bowser makes a grand entrance and exit 
 in stealing Princess Peach during the beginning video. 
  
  Graphics:
  The best part of Galaxy is the graphics. There is nothing much to say other than they are extremely 
 good looking.
  
  Value: 
  There are tons of galaxies to explore. Only 80 stars are necessary to fight the last bowser battle, 
 but one can try to obtain all 120 stars if they wish. The worlds are so beautiful and well made, 
 one will most likely play throught it again like I did.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevo_360
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 4:42 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy was the Wii game people had been yearning for and the expectation was huge. 
 Has it lived up to that hype? Yes, it certainly has. Super Mario Galaxy returns the series to it's 
 best after a short relapse with disappointing Super Mario Sunshine. Basically if you own a Wii 
 you should get this game and if you don't have a Wii you should consider getting yourself one.
 
  
  Super Mario Galaxy's premise won't be unfamiliar territory for most people as it has the same basic 
 set-up as every other Super Mario game. You start the game heading towards the castle of Princess 
 Peach, but unfortunately Bowser and his son arrive with an armada of air ships and take the castle 
 out of the ground, Princess Peach along with it. This leaves Mario with the astronomical task of 
 getting the Princess back. To do this, Mario teams up with the Lumas and their leader Rosalina 
 on their comet observatory. Rosalina offers to take you to Bowser to get the princess back if you 
 can restore the power to the observatory. Guess how you do this? That's right, you'll be collecting 
 power stars. There are 121 of these to collect and they make the game a lengthy adventure. The 
 collection of these should be familiar to anyone who played Super Mario 64. This game has a lot 
 more to it that a remake though.
  
  The main difference is that you travel to different galaxies to get these stars. The different 
 galaxies usually have distinctive features that set them apart from other ones. Such as the Toy 
 Town galaxy, which you can probably guess, is made up of toys, or the Dreadnought galaxy, which 
 is like a massive weapon that you need to make your way through.
  
  Different uses of physics and gravity really make the games galaxies interesting to travel around. 
 There are spheres that you can travel all the way around, this can be disorientating at first but 
 soon you will get used to it. Other similar situations are when you in a side-scrolling section 
 of the game and can manipulate the pull of gravity to allow you to pass different sections; sometimes 
 you have no control over this and have to react accordingly. These moments are really when the 
 game is at its best.
  
  Another important feature of the game is its fantastic level design. All of the games galaxies 
 are of the highest quality and there are none that stand out as quickly thrown in and not quite 
 as detailed or well thought out. The levels are full of devious traps to catch you out and ramp 
 up the difficulty gradually as you become better at the game. The only time the game feels perhaps 
 too easy is during the boss battles, which often feel to simple and unrewarding.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy re-introduces the use of different suits, which are required to complete puzzles 
 and such. The main standouts are the spring suit which wraps a spring around Mario and allows him 
 to jump much higher, the ice suit which allows Mario to freeze what as he skates across it and 
 the boos suit which turns Mario into a ghost and allows him to drift through walls. Most of the 
 suits are very fun to use with only the flying suit being fairly awkward, and frustrating.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy makes good use of the Wii remote without ever forcing anything in that feels 
 unnecessary. For instance to jump, you just use the A button on the remote but you shake it to 
 double jump. You also shake the remote to attack or to activate large stars that send you flying 
 across the environments. But perhaps the most interesting use of the Wii remote is the collection 
 of star bits that can be used as ammunition against your enemies, or as a currency, to encourage 
 Lumas to help you out. There is also a small co-op mode to the game, where player two will use 
 only a Wii remote to aid player one. To do this they have the ability to fire off star bits, make 
 Mario do a super jump or shield him for a short time. Although this mode is very limited, it is 
 a good way to introduce people to the game.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy's visual's are second to none on the Wii and really show that the system is 
 more that a slightly upgraded Gamecube. The game doesn't show a heavy amount of detail when it 
 comes to textures but it is incredibly colourful and a joy to look at, a credit to the work of 
 the games artists. The game's frame rate also stays smooth throughout and lets you enjoy the graphics 
 even more. Super Mario Galaxy's camera also does a good job of giving you a clear view of the game. 
 You have a little control over it, in that you can sometimes move it left and right, but most of 
 the time you won't need to.
  
  The audio in the game is just as good and features re-orchestrated versions of the old Mario soundtrack. 
 Minimalist voice work is the name of the game with super Mario Galaxy and this is a good thing 
 because it keeps the game moving at a good pace, but when characters do shout something it is usually 
 well done.
  
  In the end Mario is an almost flawless game, and ranks right up there with some of the best Mario 
 games of all time. Anyone who owns a Nintendo Wii, owes it to themselves to play this game, and 
 if you don't have a Wii, this is a good reason to go out and get one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SHACKR
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 26, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is one of the highest rated games throughout many sources, whether it'd be here 
 at Gamespot or even Nintendo Power. Here is why it is so good.
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics are outstanding, with amazing effects and environments. 9/10
  
  AUDIO: 
 The audio is fantastic. The music is very pleasant, and the sound effects and voice acting is marvelous. 
 9.5/10
  
  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay is some of the best on any Wii adventure game. Good controls and amazing 
 puzzles to beat. The camera angles are good, and rarely get into akward positions. 9/10
  
  STORY: The story is what you can expect in a Mario game. Bowser kidnaps Peach, for the hundredth 
 time, and you have to go through levels to be able to battle Bowser and save the Princess. The 
 story is aging quite a bit. 8/10
  
  VALUE: For $50, it is a good deal because even though it's the higher price compared to some other 
 games, the quality is higher. 9/10
  
  I give Super Mario Galaxy for the Nintendo Wii a 9/10, because it's difficulty is just right, it 
 is very immersive and game itself is just amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conver
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is one of the titles that come along after so much hype and says, "What now?" 
 With 120 stars to collect, 2 different characters to play as, and a 2-player mode, the only thing 
 missing in this game is being able to have 1 player as mario and the other as luigi.
  
  In the 2-player mode, the 2nd player simply controls another star cursor which allows you to collect 
 Star Bits and to help move/stop enemies on the screen. Also if both players press A at the same 
 time Mario will do a Super Jump.
  
  But even though 2-player can be fun, 1-player is just as much fun. With 120 stars on the list to 
 get, there's tons of gameplay and fun ahead of you. The controls are smooth, music can be nostalgic 
 at times but always awesome and fitting to the levels.
  
  In the beginning of the game there is quite a bit of dialogue, but after that there is only a few 
 tutorials left until the game sets you free into the galaxy. If you have not purchased Super Mario 
 Galaxy yet, all I can really ask of you is "Why not?" Seriously, pick it up and enjoy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swixer-Swaxer
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 24, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome! The graphics, The gameplay, the soundtrack, the new, more useful Peach. This 
 game has it all! This game is possibly one of the greatest, scratch that, THE greatest game for 
 the Wii ever! it sees Mario leaving the world of 2-D side scrollers to the new born world of 3-D 
 platforming. Whether its squashing a Goomba, torching Petey, saving the Toads or delivering another, 
 well-deserved smackdown on Bowser this game has done the impossible: improve upon perfection! 
 
  
  Plus with new features like jetting through space at the speed of light, going Bee Mario, making 
 a Luma obese and old classics like turning into good ol' Fire Mario, going down a pipe and squashing 
 someone this game will satisfy a whole range of gamers from fanboys to your pet worm!
  
  SO GO AND JOIN THE AWESOMENESS!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HammersUK
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 24, 2008 6:45 am PT
Review:  so Mario is back for his first proper console outing for 5 years, sunshine was a good game but 
 didn't really do anything special to stand out. Galaxy on the other hand is simply out of this 
 world!
  
  PRESENTATION
  
  Production values have been taken more intone this time round, you get a nice looking title screen, 
 and easy menu and you can have up to around 7 save files. There actually aren't any other modes 
 in the game but who cares.
  As for cut scenes they are very well done and very dramatic (a clip for the games beginning will 
 be in the story section) . Now to the games music, it really is some of the best video game music 
 i have ever heard, as well as new music there are also many well done remixes of classic Mario 
 tunes, even a couple from super Mario bros 3 :D .
  
  STORY
  
  Its the mushroom kingdom festival to celebrate that comet that can be seen every 100 years, everyones 
 happy, Mario receives a letter from princess peach to come to the castle (hmm thats familiar) because 
 she would like to give him something (hmm i wonder what) . While the town are off guard, bowser 
 and his crew come along and wreck everything and then takes princess peach, Mario tries to save 
 her but a wizard koopa blasts mario away.
  
  Mario wakes up on this planet and then meets princess Rosilena who will help Mario find peach but 
 first he will need to recover the power stars to light up the observatory again. There is also 
 a side story about Rosilena but its kinda pointless, the story isn't exactly great but when has 
 story ever been important in a mario game.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Mario galaxy is easily the best looking on wii hands down, Nintendo have really pushed the wii 
 with this game, they have simply did their best with what they got, some may say yeah but its no 
 uncharted, but this is on wii not ps3, there game looks really colorful, toy galaxy is a good example 
 of the colorful visuals. Galaxy's great graphics is simply down to good art, you don't need blu 
 ray for mario to look great, you just need good art, this game also runs in 480p. The framerate 
 is also excellent, it simply never drops, for example in some boss fights, when they are on their 
 last hit they will trow everything at you, fireballs enemies you name it, and i find it very impressive 
 for a console that is much inferior than its competition to pull something off like that.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  well what can i say? the controls are pretty much perfect, this game has clearly 
 been play tested to perfection, i feel that this game was made for the wii, it isn't overdone or 
 underdone and feels just spot on, for the main controls, a is to jump, but now you can spin attack 
 by shaking the wiimote
  and feels very good to do. The wii controls for other things have been put to good use for example, 
 there a some stages where Mario can get caught in a web and what you can do is hold hte a button 
 and pull the wiimote back and then let go of the button, it will help Mario fly off to what ever 
 direction you want him to go, other good uses are moving Mario in a bubble and controlling the 
 Italian while walking on a ball.
  
  There is something in the game called starbits, these are scattered around the galaxy's. To get 
 them all you need to do is point at the screen and thats it, they can also be fount by killing 
 enemies, 50 starbits will get you 1-up. Starbits can also be used as currency, for example a luma 
 will want you to give em 50 starbits, if you do so it can open up a new galaxy. Another thing is 
 by pressing the b button, you can shoot out star bits to for example stun a enemy, your friend 
 can help you too by co-op mode, while your doing all the jumping, the other guy can shoot stuff 
 or collect starbits, its pretty fun, but it could make the game a bit easier. 
  
  Now to level design witch really is amazing, the games theme is galaxies witch means gravity will 
 be involved. The gravitational stuff in the game can be jaw dropping! thanks to all this it really 
 wants you to be more daring, like jump off a platform and go underneath, try this if you want to 
 find more stuff in some areas. There are sections in the game like the bowser stages will have 
 some old school Mario platforming, these are even better because of the gravitational push witch 
 will see you running upside down and sidewards, theres a bit that uses this where the direction 
 keeps changing and you will have to move in the direction that isn't facing the blackhole otherwise 
 you will get sucked in to it.
  
  Some of the galaxy's aren't quite as open as Mario 64 or Mario sunshine , but i think this is even 
 better because it feels like what it would be like if a 2d Mario game was directly transformed 
 into 3d, some may say its brang back the the classic feel of Mario 64 witch is true but i also 
 think its brang back the super Mario bros 3 feel plus all the new stuff i mentioned.
  
  now to the costumes witch reminds me of smb3 because that had so many too. You have bee Mario that 
 can temporarily fly, climb and walk on flowers, you have boo (ghost) Mario who can go threw walls 
 by shaking the wiimote, ice Mario will temporarily allow you to walk on water, fire Mario has finally 
 been brought back and needs no description though it will only last a minute or 2, rainbow Mario 
 will make you invincible for a while and probably least favorite is spring Mario witch can help 
 you jump higher, its alright but can some times be frustrating to use.
  
  does the game have any problems? yes. There is a surfing stage witch you will have to tilt the 
 remote like a key, its too sensitive and i kept falling off the edge and dieing, i did do it however, 
 to be honest it was really minor and was only one stage. These are mainly just searching for problems 
 and they are a pointless side story, the life system is pointless as you get too many lives and 
 the camera while excellent for the most part can be an ass sometimes but never bad, these issues 
 are so minor they don't even make a difference to the game.
  
  OVERALL
  
  Its just amazing, from the great level design to music, if you have a wii, BUY IT, if you don't 
 then go and get a wii, forget about assassins creed and haze, buy this. It gets my vote for game 
 of the year. Not only its the best mario game, the best platformer, or the best game in this generation 
 of consoles, its easily one of the best games ever made!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smchacko
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy, hailed by many as one of the greatest in the Mario series.
  
  === What does Galaxy do well? ===
  
  GOOD: Innovative Level Design - This is where Galaxy shines. 
 I've never played levels like this before. From running around floating rocky formations, diving 
 and swimming in any direction under a deep-sea cavern, scaling up the body of a huge toy robot, 
 jumping on a giant set of tiles forming an 8-bit Mario, to surfing on a Manta in a floating water 
 racetrack, this time Mario is all over the place. The gravity allows Mario to be standing anywhere, 
 and in any direction; there's no strict sense of "up/down" anymore.
  
  GOOD: Solid Control - The wireless motion controls work great. Mario doesn't feel "floaty" or too 
 sensitive, the designers got this right. Mario is mainly moved using the nun-chuck stick but the 
 motion controls are also used in cool ways from flinging Mario like a slingshot using space-goo, 
 aiming + firing him out of a cannon, steering him on track while he rides a water manta to directing 
 him on a huge marble while he rolls over enemies and obstacles.
  
  GOOD: Wonderful visuals - All the levels and rich, colorful and filled with great cartoon textures 
 and structures. They are also quite varied, from the cool blue/white icy levels to red/orange fiery 
 depths to dark starry outer-space and lush green grassy hills. The animations are all smooth and 
 frame-rate doesn't drop. Despite Wii's maximum 480p output, Galaxy pushes the console's capabilities.
 
  
  GOOD: Amazing Music - Awesome soundtrack that fits perfectly with Mario running, spinning and flipping 
 through the environments. Really builds a sense of adventure.
  
  GOOD: Great Camera programming - No matter where or how Mario is standing the camera never fails 
 to function.
  
  === What does Galaxy do Poorly? ===
  
  BAD: Poor Story - virtually non-existent story. Galaxy is another captured princess rescue mission 
 but this time Nintendo tacked on some story about a stranded little girl living with some star-like 
 creatures. This side story is explained in some cut-scenes unlocked as the game progresses, but 
 does not affect play at all.
  
  BAD: Too easy - For the most part, the game is way to easy. However as the game progresses there 
 are a few unlocked levels that are INSANELY difficult and/or annoying (Luigi's Coins ???) . For 
 young kids the difficulty would be perfect, but for gamers with average skill, no level or boss 
 will be much of a challenge. Even the final level was a letdown, it was similar to another fight 
 in the game and not difficult at all
  
  BAD: Tacked on multi-player - A second play can join in on the action by picking up another Wii-remote 
 (no nun-chuck) . Another star pointer appears and that player can shoot star bits and keep enemies 
 away. Quite lame, but it doesn't hurt the game.
  
  === Overall ===
  
  Mario Galaxy rocks and its worth playing to see its innovation but it won't be the greatest thing 
 that will ever be on the Wii. If you can get it for a couple of weeks you'll have NO problem collecting 
 all the stars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonbert
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 22, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is totally over rated
  
  1st of all the game has basically no storyline to it at all
  
  Its pretty frustrating that 
 the camera angle is always sideways upside down etc
  
  Its way harder than every past mario game 
  
  The only replay value it has is getting all 120 
 stars to be able to play as luigi only to get all of them again which isnt that interesting
  
  Its also actually pretty hard to get all 120 stars in the 1st place , some of the stars are 
 basically impossible to get and you have to sit there trying them over and over again like some 
 of the purple coin collecting stars where you get on a platform that only goes foward and if you 
 miss a single coin along the way (Which includes being upside down , sideways , electrocuted , 
 bombs shooting at mario , etc) then you fail.
  
  So yeah... getting all 120 stars is REALLY hard and the above mentioned star is just 1 of the freakishly 
 hard ones that youll be wanting to buy a mario punching bag because of
  
  Super mario galaxy is more of a "Hey its something to do" game than an "OMG I GOTTA GO PLAY IT 
 NOW ITS SO GREAT" type of game
  
  Just because marios in a game doesnt mean its gonna be an amazing game every time but it does usually 
 mean its at least playable and something to do without extreme dissapointment
  
  If you buy super mario galaxy you won't be insanely dissapointed but you won't be super impressed 
 either
  
  Like I said before this game is more of a "Hey its something to do" game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kramzy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is without a doubt the best game on the wii and the best looking one. It's basically 
 super Mario 64 with improved graphics, new suits more levels and new moves. The sound & music in 
 the game is incredible all of the music is orchestrated and just sounds awesome. The game play 
 is spot on the controls are responsive and mario moves excellent. The bad thing about this game 
 is that if you want to play as Luigi you must collect 120 stars and to get that is not so easy 
 and also all the swimming levels are bad, no game has made swimming perfect but at least in Mario 
 galaxy it's better that on N64. So overall Mario galaxy is awesome its the best game on the wii 
 in my opinion it's one of the best platformers of all time and go and play it.
  
  Game play 9/10
  Graphics 10/10
  Sound 10/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thimitry
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 3:27 am PT
Review:  SUPERRR MARIO GALAXY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  This game was very enjoyable for the whole time i played it. Great for the whole family but I found 
 that I was spending most of the time getting most of the stars. Super Mario Galaxy is full of never 
 ending fun and a long amount of game play.
  
  Unlike most great wii games this one does not finish after about 20 hours but to finish the game 
 properly it takes about 70. Even though you have to repeat some galaxies the fun never stops. 
 
  
  If you think about jumping on little animals heads and collecting stars seems pretty stupid but 
 when you do it in Super Mario Galaxy the great game play, fantastic graphics and the different 
 uses of the wii mote make it all worth the while.
  
  For any new wii owner this game is must have, in other words buy it!!!! 
  
  The only con I 
 found was when i kept dying and i had to restart the whole level because of it. But this is also 
 good because it means the game is not just all simple and not too user-friendly. All together, 
 a wonderful game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thewiirocks1
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  This game has to be one of the most lengthily, action-packed, and creative games on the market. 
 Super Mario Galaxy is a great game for families, kids, teens, and adults. Its great graphics really 
 sucks you into the game. Also all the galaxies, planets, and observatories really keep you playing 
 for a while. What also keeps you playing for a while is playing the whole game over again (after 
 you beat it with Mario) with Luigi. The difficulty is also just right that it will be challenging 
 at parts and sort of easy at others. This game also has a great mix of classic music and new music 
 to enjoy. The co-op mode is ok but not great but still it will feel fun to have someone else playing 
 with you. This game is great in every way possible (graphics, music, game play, length, and just 
 plain fun) . This is defiantly a game to check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jzayas40
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  An amazing adventure game! One of the best adventure games ever. It's like a sequel for Mario sixty 
 four. it's the second best game. The first is brawl. it's graphics are amazing. they have a lot 
 of contrast. The music in the game is amazing. the best part about it, is that it's in space. Flying 
 around from galaxy to galaxy is awesome. It has new abilities. Bee mario, Boo mario, and ice Mario. 
 Including invincible Mario, and Fire mario. Some levels in this game are almost impossible. It 
 was the first game i got for wii. i coudn't stop playing it! If you have a wii buy this game. iT 
 grows on you. This game is an amazing Mario adventure game. The final boss, Bowser is an epic battle. 
 It is dificult, because you have to fight him in three different planets. This game is amazing. 
 The controls are easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hudsy_05
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2008 4:58 am PT
Review:  Throughout its life, each console has a title which makes you sit up (after fainting dead away) 
 and say WOW! A title which straddles the divides of casual/hardcore and young/old gamers with consummate 
 ease. Super Mario Galaxy is the only title on Wii to accomplish that thus far. The term "system 
 seller" is used slightly loosely nowadays, but here it's entirely plausible. Here's why:
  
  Galaxy avoids every potential pitfall facing it. Obviously two of the biggest threats to its success 
 were gimmicky abuse of the Wii Remote and falling into the colossal shadow of Mario 64. This is 
 a Wii title, you're probably eager to know just how it uses the unique motion sensing abilities 
 of the controllers to enhance the experience.
  
  Firstly, it's a good thing that the controls do actually simply "enhance" the experience. Remote 
 waggling at no point becomes the central focus of the play. From a gamers point of view, it's difficult 
 to see why other developers can't see from the titles Nintendo have put out (excluding Wii Sports, 
 which was intended to demo the abilities of the Remote) , that the Japanese console giants only 
 ever intended the motion sensing to be a background feature.
  
  The Remote is used for a few different things. Firstly to execute Mario's primary attack, the spin. 
 A simple shake of the Wii Remote makes Mario execute a short spin attack which damages anything 
 it hits. There is a short period after the attack where Mario is unable to spin again, then you're 
 good to go. The pointer is used to collect star bits which are scattered throughout the levels 
 and can be used to feed strange star creatures called Lumas, causing them to transform into launch 
 pads or even new planets.
  
  Galaxy is a better game than Mario 64 because it knows its limits. At times the 64 classic turned 
 the difficulty up just a tad too high for the genre and audience it was aiming for. Galaxy's missions 
 aren't overly challenging, just enough to keep things interesting, but every inch of every level 
 is an outrageous amount of fun. You could get a heart attack from the sheer adrenaline surge that 
 is Galaxy at its best and die happy.
  
  Another point where Galaxy's Wii peers have fallen short is the visual standards. Galaxy is a rare 
 showcase of the power many lazy, porting developers have impressed upon the gaming public the Wii 
 doesn't possess. No, it's not HD, the stats behind the rainbows no doubt tremble in comparison 
 to a 360/PS3 effort, but the vibrant colors, effects and superb art design are so incredible it 
 hardly matters.
  
  The audio is also everything you would expect from a Mario game and more. For the first time Nintendo 
 have stepped away from MIDI, computer generated music and tested the music with an actual orchestra. 
 Oh dear lord, praise be that they did. The soaring melodies pumping through the speakers are guaranteed 
 to set your heart racing; if not, you're clearly already dead.
  
  Galaxy is a title which strips away the pretentious graphics and technical features prevalent in 
 the modern market and takes gaming back to its roots, delivering an intensely fun experience sure 
 to delight any living human being. Oh, and that Mario 64 shadow? Let's just say the statue of Mario 
 64 has finally been laid to rest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Platinum_Pikmin
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 18, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Hello again this is Platinum Pikmin. Super Mario Galaxy is the best 3D platformer to come in centuries 
 so I find it my duty to provide you with the best info on this truly revolutionary game.
  
  Graphics: Let's get this out of the way first, Galaxy is the best looking Wii game ever. Nintendo 
 just seems to get more out of their little white rectangle than anybody else. It's not because 
 it's pumping out 120 polygons per second either, the superb art direction is what makes it such 
 a marvel to look at.
  
  Sound: The hits keep coming with sound as well. This game has absolutely the best in orchestrated 
 music with songs that will stay in your head even when you shelf the game for Super Smash Bros. 
 Brawl.
  
  Gameplay: When you buy a game where it is just fun to run around, it is truly well done. Of course 
 it always helps when your running around on the walls, ceiling and more. I will admit, the 2P co-star 
 mode seems tacked on but it can be a Godsend in certain missions. cough*bubble breeze*cough.
  
  Camera: Ahh the bane of 3D games, that annoying camera that you have to control more than your 
 character. Luckily, the camera in Galaxy works with you, not against you. I'm not saying that it 
 wont go rouge on you from time to time, and the control pad feature doesn't help much, but it is 
 pretty good overall.
  
  Control: Nintendo made a smart move choosing the remote and nunchuk control scheme and for the 
 most part it is pulled of brilliantly. Within about 5 minutes you'll be triple jumping, butt stomping 
 and backflipping like nobodies buisness. The shake-to-spin mechanic handles very well unlike motion 
 controls in Nintendo character's debut Wii game. 
  
  Overall this is the recommended game for all Wii gamers to pick up and play, it has everything 
 except a decent 2P mode, but when the single player is this good, who cares! And finally, time 
 flys like an arrow, fruit flys like bananas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dan2002sk8er
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 2:24 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is a Fun and Entertaining game with mind boggling levels. The Graphics are as 
 good as they get on the Wii. The controls are simple The Story is Really good for a Mario game. 
 But I think this game falls short in one category that is longevity. It is easy to forget about 
 this game, it is simple and Repetitive. 
  
  Unlike Mario 64 that had a new feeling with each level Super Mario Galaxy feels like the same thing 
 over and over. Though some new features are an improvement like the Graphics and sleek controller 
 scheme it falls short f the Greatness that was Mario 64.
  
  The Two player mode is a mess. One player is Mario and the other is a star that can collect star 
 bits for Mario and make his do a spin attack. This mode is just to Boring to play and you will 
 end up playing Super Smash Bros. or Rock band. Now a cool alternative for Multi player would be 
 one person is Mario the Other is Luigi, now that is a unique Idea.
  
  with all the Great Games out there like CoD4 Super Smash Bros. Brawl and Rock Band it is easy to 
 over look this Game and have it just sitting on the shelf unbeaten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dotXtreme
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 12:55 am PT
Review:  This is a masterpiece. This is just so awesome on so many levels. Let's break down the subject 
 shall we?
  
  
  Story: Same basic principal really. Bowser kidnaps peach, Mario goes on big adventure to hand bowser's 
 tush to him and save peach. But this Perspective is taken to a whole new level as Mario's adventure 
 takes place in the vastness of space.
  
  Music: The soundtrack is just pure bliss. The Comet observatory's music alone is just music to 
 one's ears.
  
  Graphics: Now this is what the wii is meant for. All you lazy developers out there beware: I'm 
 watching the whole lot of you.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is rather intuitive, you have half the amount of Hit points in Super Mario 
 64 but you can find life shrooms to easily get over that hurdle.
  
  Value: Where do I begin... The comet mishes add a neat amount of RV, especially the purple comet 
 mishes. Playing as Luigi, getting all 241 stars, all those will want you screaming back for more.
 
  
  Overall rating: It's these kinds of games that make baby jesus smile. Truly amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: despa1r_fact0r
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Story --- The game begins with Mario being invited to the Star Festival at Princess Peach's Castle. 
 Just as Mario approaches the castle, Bowser and a fleet of air ship invade the kingdom. One of 
 Bowser's minions summon a Large space ship that pulls the castle from the ground, and the space 
 ship take the castle to outer space. Mario tries to stop Bowser but instead he is shot across space, 
 and land on a small planet. Soon after Mario meet up with Rosalina and the Lumas. Rosalina is the 
 watcher of the star who lives on a mobile observatory. In order to get to Princess Peach, Mario 
 must jump galaxy to galaxy to collect stars that powers the mobile observatory. After enough stars 
 have been collected Rosalina can travel to the center of the galaxy, so Mario can go and rescue 
 Princess Peach.
  
  Graphics --- Plain amazing! Nintendo takes their time with the Mario series and the graphics shows. 
 When you climbing on the queen bee with Bee Mario, you can actually see her hair move as if the 
 wind was blowing across it. Each of Mario's powers up look fantastic, the best looking would have 
 to be Spring Mario whose bottom half actually looks like metal. The cut scenes were beautiful!!!
 
  
  Sound --- This game has an awesome soundtrack, and it has to be one of the best soundtrack in all 
 of the Mario series. The one thing that was disappointing was the lack of a voice acting. With 
 all many and long cut scenes this game could have used a voice acting.
  
  Controls --- Mario Galaxy used very little motion controls, and this was a little surprising. The 
 motion controls consisted of a pointer on the screen that's used to collect the star bits, and 
 to do a spin attack you simply shake the Wii Mote. Even with the lack of motion, the controls was 
 are target!
  
  Game Play --- This has to be the best 3D Mario game. Mario Galaxy will test any good platform gamer 
 with is complex level design. Mario Galaxy also offers "co-op" play. The second play only controls 
 the pointer and they just collect the star bits.
  
  Overall --- It's kinda disappointing how the Fire Mario is timed. The cut scenes were long and 
 there is no way to skip them. There's just not much to complain about, this game is just plain 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvilLemon45
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 took the world by storm, providing the first 3D Mario experience. The second has 
 done the same thing! The game has incredible graphics, a horribly, yet satisfyingly addictive story 
 line and great controls which set this game off to be one of the best 07 winter titles for the 
 Wii.
  
  Galaxy sees you once again trying to save Princess Peach from Bowser, but this time Bowser's gone 
 a step up and got aliens to help him. Once capturing Peach's castle, Bowser's aliens take it to 
 the centre of the universe, where they plan to create their own planet by taking places from other 
 planets so Bowser can rule. Mario tries to rescue Peach, but Kamek the Magikoopa shoots him off 
 into space. Saved by a mysterious woman called Rosalina, Mario starts his quest to collect the 
 Grand Stars (giant Power Stars the power Rosalina's rocket house, the Comet Observatory) to gain 
 enough power to restore the Comet Observatory to its former glory and then fly it to the centre 
 of the universe to beat Bowser and save Peach.
  
  Moving around with the Nunchuk is smooth and works well and Z to Ground Pound, using the Wii Remote 
 to point and collect Star Bits (for buying special galaxies and shooting at enemies-of which there 
 are a great deal) , A to jump and double-jump, B to shoot Star Bits and + D-Pad to adjust the camera, 
 although the camera follows you smoothly on it's own.
  
  There are a ton of Galaxies that are unlocked with more Power Stars, and a few special galaxies 
 that are unlocked by feeding "Hungry Lumas" with Star Bits that you find in the different levels. 
 There is no major Multi-Player but a second player can jump in and use their pointer to collect 
 Star Bits in the level and make Mario jump by pressing A whilst pointing at him. There is no Wi-Fi 
 but, with a game like this, I can't think of a good idea that Nintendo could have added as a Wi-Fi 
 game.
  
  +LEMON LOVES+
  +CONTROLS
  +STORY LINE
  +ADDICTIVENESS DURING MAIN STORY
  +GRAPHICS
  +THE LEVEL DESIGN & LAYOUT
  +AN UNLOCKABLE THAT ALLOWS YOU TO PLAY AS LUIGI
  +THE 
 WORLD-ALTERING COMETS
  
  -LEMON LOATHES-
  -IT BECOMES BORING ONCE YOU HAVE COMPLETED MOST LEVELS
  -THE COMET OBSERVATORY HAS LITTLE TO 
 DO
  -NO SIDE QUESTS
  -NOT MANY DIFFERENT MONSTERS
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PikaPikaboo
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  The plump mascot of Nintendo has been around for what most would label forever. It's a true difficulty 
 to think about video games and not recall pictures, memories and so on of this cheery plumber. 
 He is responsible for an entire generation of gamers with his numerous adventures and antics. Nintendo 
 truly deserves credit for this: they've managed to keep Mario -- lets not forget their other main 
 franchises like Zelda and Metroid -- relevant across several different platforms and titles, helping 
 to shape the entire industry as a whole along the way.
  
  The Mario series has definitely proven influential: the first Super Mario Bros. game has acquired 
 mainstream status amongst gamers and non-gamers, and deservedly so. Super Mario Bros. 3 was, at 
 the time, a revolutionary title that gave the NES a huge boost late in its life cycle, while Super 
 Mario World helped usher in the 16-bit era and gave the Super Nintendo system a strong push.
  
  Then came Mario 64, which greatly assisted in opening our eyes to the possibilities of a 3-D 
 world. And we haven't even touched upon related franchises like Mario Kart, Super Smash Bros. and 
 Mario's foray into the RPG realm.
  
  Now onto Galaxy: Super Mario Galaxy starts off with our hero Mario receiving a letter from Princess 
 Peach inviting him to the castle for the Star Festival. When Mario arrives, Peach, The Toads, and 
 everyone else in the Mushroom Kingdom are celebrating something that occurs once every 100 years: 
 the arrival of a giant comet that flies over the Kingdom. Pieces of this comet will break loose 
 and turn into multicolored shooting stars called Star Bits which light the night the sky and crash 
 into the ground.
  
  The festival is running smoothly and everyone is enjoying themselves until Mario's arch enemy intrudes. 
 Bowser and his sinister-looking fleet of airships block out the view of the sky and begin a full 
 scale attack on the kingdom. But this time around, Bowser does more then just snatch the princess, 
 he takes the entire castle using a UFO. No, you read that right: Bowser has a UFO, which means 
 Mario must travel to different galaxies in order to save the princess.
  
  Galaxy's gameplay is split into two main level types: there are levels where Mario is actually 
 in space, jumping from planet to planet and then there are more common platformer levels similar 
 to Mario 64. But in both level types, the player finds good use of the analog stick on the Nunchuk 
 to move around and the Wii Remote to execute Mario's Crash Bandicoot-esque spin attack. The Wii 
 Remote is also capable of collecting Star Bits spread throughout levels which can be fired at enemies 
 and objects on command, which is a key aspect of the game.
  
  The levels where Mario is actually in space definitely provide some of the more interesting moments 
 in the game and offer up a number of new experiences unlike anything we've experienced before in 
 a Mario title. There are a number of miniature planets, each having its own gravitational pull, 
 allowing Mario to run all the way around them literally in simply seconds without floating off 
 into space. The gravity varies depending on what planet Mario is on which may or may not effect 
 the gameplay. The only problem with this new feature is that it can take a few seconds for the 
 camera to adjust.
  
  Another great feature for this game is the various power-ups throughout the levels. Each will assist 
 in progressing through the game in some way along with providing a change of appearance. Most of 
 these power-ups are new and fresh but there are also some that are classic to the series such as 
 Fire Mario. Other forms include Bee Mario, allowing Mario to fly for periods of time, Boo Mario 
 which can go through solid objects and Ice Mario which allows the player to walk on water and skate. 
 However there are many other forms. It's quite obvious that the game-developers put a large amount 
 of thought and effort into their design due to how well the power-up are implemented into game-play.
 
  
  One thing I noticed in the game which I was not too fond of is the so-called two-player mode which 
 seemed gimmicky and tacked on. The only thing the second player is capable of is the ability to 
 collect Star Bits with their Wii Remote, which is pretty much useless. Although the Mario franchise 
 never had a strong, true multiplayer component, so this isn't a huge concern but it is a little 
 perplexing that they'd even bother to have it in the first place.
  
  But this small minor issue aside, it's quite obvious that Super Mario Galaxy raises the bar in 
 terms of what can be achieved on the Wii. There is always so much going on around you as you play 
 through this game, making players want to go back and play again.
  
  Sum Up:
  It's everything you loved about Mario 64 and nothing you hated about Super Mario Sunshine
  
 
  Good:
  -The level design is superb and the new gameplay mechanics reinvigorate the Mario franchise.
 
  -Wonderful visual style really takes full advantage of the Wii's capabilities.
  -Definitely lives up to the high standard of previous Mario games. Best title in the franchise 
 since Mario 64.
  
  Bad:
  -It may take some players a while to adjust to the game's unique gameplay.
  -The camera moves 
 in strange ways during the space levels.
  -The multiplayer mode is weak and feels tacked on.
  --------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Graphics: 9.5
  Sound: 8.5
  Gameplay: 9.0
  Controls: 9.5
  Replay Value: 10
  Overall: 9.3
  
  -Average_Joe
  
  For more Reviews like this, check: http://Wiiniis-United. co. nr 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaxxyGamer18
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Uses the Wii remote to (gasp!) great effect; incredible visual splendor; stunning soundtrack; 
 brilliant, innovative level designs; nostalgia around nearly every corner; doesn't just shoehorn 
 the Mario license in; reasonable extras.
  
  The Bad: Some of the power-ups and genius design choices aren't used as much as they could be.
 
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is an amalgamation of everything right with Nintendo and all its shady Wii schemes. 
 It looks absolutely beautiful, it knows the limitations of the control scheme and uses it to its 
 advantage, and it provides comfort that, indeed, Nintendo knows what it's doing. If the entire 
 Wii generation ends up comparable to SMG, we're in good hands.
  
  While playing Galaxy, it is impossible not to realize that a lifetime of talent and practiced polish 
 have led to the creation of perhaps the tightest gaming package ever. The game is an absolute marvel 
 to play for Mario newcomers and veterans alike. It is chock-full of interesting new ideas and gameplay 
 mechanics, and all of them work marvelously.
  
  For example, the very first thing introduced to players is the new gravity mechanic. Often, Mario 
 will find himself on a round planetoid, and will be expected to navigate around it. The ability 
 to move around and not fall off anything gets rid of that age-old fear of accidentally dying through 
 a navigation mishap.
  
  In fact, the greatest strength of the game is that it fixes all of the problems with the previous 
 games in the series. The camera is a work of art, the difficulty is perfectly suited to all players, 
 there are loads of objectives at any given time, few (if any) of the stars are dull to obtain, 
 and there is so much variety that you'll never get bored playing it. The amount of levels is staggering, 
 and you'll never find yourself doing some of the mundane activities found in Super Mario Sunshine.
 
  
  The only problem with Super Mario Galaxy (a fixable one, at that) , is that you're going to see 
 things in there that you wish were expanded upon. At one point, you will gain a power-up that allows 
 you to fly. It is very fun and intuitive, but it is only used for one star. If Nintendo offered 
 a download pack at some point with some new levels that centered around this great power-up, it 
 would be solved.
  
  The point still remains that Super Mario Galaxy blows all of its predecessors out of the water 
 and sets expectations for coming Wii games sky high. It is a truly out-of-this-world experience 
 that deserves to be listed among Nintendo's best games, including Ocarina of Time. Go play it now, 
 if you haven't already.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sailor1sun
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  This is a masterpiece. This is just so awesome on so many levels. Let's break down the subject 
 shall we?
  
  
  Story: 10/10: Same basic principal really. Bowser kidnaps peach, Mario goes on big adventure to 
 hand bowser's tush to him and save peach. But this Perspective is taken to a whole new level as 
 Mario's adventure takes place in the vastness of space.
  
  Music: 10/10: The soundtrack is just pure bliss. The Comet observatory's music alone is just music 
 to one's ears.
  
  Graphics: 10/10: Now this is what the wii is meant for. All you lazy developers out there beware: 
 I'm watching the whole lot of you.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10: The gameplay is rather intuitive, you have half the amount of Hit points in Super 
 Mario 64 but you can find life shrooms to easily get over that hurdle.
  
  Value: 10/10: Where do I begin... The comet mishes add a neat amount of RV, especially the purple 
 comet mishes. Playing as Luigi, getting all 241 stars, all those will want you screaming back for 
 more.
  
  Overall rating: 50/50: It's these kinds of games that make baby jesus smile. Truly amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5nake3yes
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  Ill admit ive always been a bit of a mario fan, the mario franchise has been ported all over the 
 shop in recent years so it was interesting to see Mario back on the Nintendo platform scene again. 
 Quite frankly the quality of this game is just stunning, the level design is intriuging, the moves 
 are great fun to perform, the use of the wiimote and nunchuck is superb. Yes its all very cutsey, 
 happy, bouncy, lovelyness but even at 31 this game is just plain good fun, you start playing and 
 you can't put it down until your wrist starts to drop off. My 6 month old son loves watching it 
 and gurgles and smiles away as Mario backflips, flys, and runs his way around the colourful dynamic 
 planets that inhabit the galaxies.
  
  Perhaps the only complaint so far is that the boss fights have all been a bit easy, but then I 
 am 31, I have been gaming since I was 5 and its not really aimed at me!
  
  Truly a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rubiks_Warrior
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2008 11:06 pm PT
Review:  There are very few games that one could call perfect, and this would be one of the games that would 
 receive this comment from me.
  The difficulty level is just right, there is a good storyline to the game (however it seems to 
 be a little hard to follow at times,) the graphics are great, the boss fights are original and 
 fun, and overall, the entire game is a brand new experience and I have seen nothing like it before.
 
  
  One of my favourite parts about this game is how the gravity works. I remember getting so annoyed 
 with my Crash Bandicoot game on the PS1, when I would always fall off all the platforms. Now, this 
 isn't a problem, you just jump straight underneath it! There are in fact a lot of areas to explore 
 with this new manouverability, and there are plenty of unlockables, secrets and minigames to earn 
 extra Power Stars.
  
  The game has a great soundtrack, and the original tunes help to suck you into the game even more. 
 It is a shame there is no voice acting in the Mario games, apart from a few "Yes!" and "Aaaaah!" 
 sounds made by the characters.
  
  But one of the best things about it is that like some games, it is not so difficult that it makes 
 the game seem totally unfair, yet it is not so easy that you feel ripped off and that the game 
 was a total waste of time and money. It does start off a little bit easy, but the difficulty gradually 
 increases at a steady rate so it doesn't make you feel overwhelmed by sudden changes in the way 
 the game plays.
  
  
  I think this game is a work of art - a complete masterpiece.
  10 out of 10 from me.
  
  ~ Rubiks_Warrior 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Billy2by4
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2008 5:17 am PT
Review:  This game is probably one of the best games you can get. The graphics are not realistic but great 
 for the fact that it is supposed to be cartoonic. The detail however, of everything in this game 
 is remarkable. You are even able to see every individual scale on Bowser! Another thing about this 
 game that makes it just a little difficult is the gravity, but this makes the game so much more 
 fun! You can run around upside down on the side and almost anywhere on planets! Luckily, its not 
 just planet to planet to planet and so on, but has very detailed galaxies with each of them having 
 a unique property to each of them. Some you can go swimming, some have a great view, there are 
 individual enemies for each galaxy, and some galaxies have astounding mario powers in them! Some 
 of the powers are as such... Fire Mario has returned in which you use the new spin ability by shaking 
 the Wii Remote to fire a fire ball which is good for fighting enemies and required to solve certain 
 puzzles. There is also a new one called Bee Mario which allows you to fly for a certain amount 
 of time. There are also many others left to discover. Even if you get all the power stars for a 
 galaxy you will need to head back to sometimes get more. The reasons are secret stars in which 
 you need to find them and figure out how to get it, and COMETS!!! Comets allow you to get stars 
 by giving you a challenge in that world. One comet is the Daredevil comet where you can only have 
 one health. Another is the Doopleganger Comet where you have to race your doopleganger to the power 
 star. Everything about this game is entertaining and exciting. There is so much to do and so many 
 Galaxies to explore that you can't let the opportunity of having this game escape you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Polo136
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 4:18 am PT
Review:  I do not own this game, but I have rented it enough times to know that it is an awesome game.
 
  Who would have thought Mario travelling into space could be such a revolutionary adventure?
  Graphics: Really beautiful to look at, best graphics I've played with on Wii.
  Controls: They 
 are good, but not as immersive as I would have hoped, still good though!
  Gameplay: Marvellous! The bosses are fun to play against, sometimes slightly amusing too. For example, 
 the first boss (the pirahna plant dinosaur dude) is easy, but enjoyable. I knew I had to hit it's 
 tail, but I didn't know it was going to bounce back and hit the thing!
  The costumes are very enjoyable too, I have to say, my favourite one is Boo Mario, really cool!!!!! 
 I like the Bee, the ice one, the spring, I like all of them!!!!
  
  I usually enjoy adventure and action games, so this is quite difference, but this game has rocked 
 my world!!!! No matter what game you like, you will enjoy this one! And if for some reason you 
 don't enjoy it, you need to loosen up and enjoy life!!!
  The stunning visual design, great in-game mechanics and slick gameplay should have you playing 
 Super Mario Galaxy for hours and hours and hours...
  
  ZE END OF ZE REVIEW!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hemadre
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  I'll be blunt; I am, by no means whatsoever, a Mario fan. It's been whored out beyond belief, but 
 I'm not here to talk about Party and the hundreds of sports games. New Super Mario Bros. was far 
 too short (not to mention horrible music) , and the 3D games have pailed in comparison to the 2D 
 games. Ask any true gamer, and they will say that the golden age of Mario was the end of NES through 
 SNES. Mario Bros. 3, World, and Yoshi's Island (despite not being a "Mario" game persay) are the 
 top contenders when talking about not only the greatest Mario games, but also some of the greatest 
 platformers of all time. 64, despite being relatively good, just didn't stand up to the 2D games. 
 Luigi's Mansion and Sunshine were a little too off to be put in the same limelight as the other 
 Marios. Then comes Galaxy: a gorgeous game with an epic soundtrack, filled to the brim with nostalgia, 
 and soaking in greatness that gamers of the 80's have wanted to see in Mario for so, so long. 
 
  
  Story: Mario? Story? This is blasphemy! Mario's gotta save the princess! That's all there is to 
 it! Or at least, that's all there really ever was there to it. We never expected any more from 
 Mario; maybe a few extra twists, but as long as we have Mario, the Princess, Bowser, and hopefully 
 Luigi or Yoshi, we've got ourselves a Mario game. Galaxy doesn't skew too off from this formula, 
 yet has a fairly enjoyable story. Basically, Bowser captures the princess (o rly?) , but this time, 
 instead of just kooping (lol pun) her in a castle and sitting around, waiting for Mario to show 
 up, he's creating a galaxy from which he may rule the universe. Now ruling the universe... you can't 
 get much bigger than that. Along the way to help you is Rosalina, a woman who, despite looking 
 similar to Peach, doesn't want to get it on with Mario. She lives on an observatory (Brawl stage, 
 anyone?) with all of the little Lumas (who look like fat pudgy power stars) . Speaking of power 
 stars, they actually have a purpose in this game (gasp!) . You see, they power up the observatory, 
 which is really a giant ship, so that you may go save Peach. A bit more impressive than New Super 
 Mario Bros., to say the least (in which you're walking along and Bowser Jr. randomly nabs the Princess) .
 
  
  Control: If you've played 64 or Sunshine, then you'll be well at home. All of the little tricks 
 such as backflips and triple jumps and super jumps have been left in, so if it weren't for the 
 enhanced graphics and the beautiful soundtrack, you'd think you were playing an older game. But 
 that's not to say that the controls are exactly the same as before. For instance, you can point 
 at the screen and shoot starbits (the coins of this game, as they appear pretty much everywhere) 
 with B. You can also shake the remote to spin, which is used very often. It has some restraint, 
 though there are points where it's just plain stupid (such as shaking the remote to shoot fire) . 
 But I digress; the controls, though reminescent of the smooth controls of the N64 and Gamecube, 
 feel very refreshed and new while not screwing too much up.
  
  Graphics: I hate to dis my more preferable series such as Fire Emblem and Zelda... even Brawl might 
 be beat by Galaxy's graphics. Some might argue that Brawl looks better, but the difference is that, 
 while Brawl looks more realistic (Brawl? Realistic? WTF?) , Galaxy has a very bright charm to it, 
 as each of the character shine radiantly. It's kinda like playing a very awesome cartoon; childish 
 yet advanced. Graphics are good. Next subject...
  
  Audio: I'll get to the music in a sec, since I'll spend much more time on it. There are a select 
 few voice clips in Galaxy (mostly Rosalina and Peach, and a little Luigi) , but mostly "YAHOO!"s 
 and whatnot. We don't want Bowser or Mario talking. Ever. Same goes for most Nintendo characters. 
 This game gives us a warning as to what will happen if they start giving Link and Mario their own 
 lines. How? Just hit the disc channel with Mario in it, and you'll know what I mean. "SUPAH MARIO 
 GALAXEEEEE!!!". Yeah, stick to the "It's-a me, Mario", Mario. Now that I've gotten that out of 
 the way, let's move on to the music, shall we? Now I enjoy games for how epic they are, and... well, 
 let's face it, with their overly cheery and MIDI-filled soundtracks, 64 and Sunshine were lacking 
 on the epic side. Galaxy is a completely different story; that first level alone is beautiful enough 
 to make you almost cry for joy. The soundtrack has pretty much two sides: there's the epic side, 
 which you'll find on most of the worlds and on the observatory, and the nostalgic side, which you'll 
 find on mini game worlds (Mario 3/World music) , and Bowser music from 64. The soundtrack strikes 
 a perfect balance of nostalgically old and awesomely new. Other than a select few games (namely 
 Fire Emblem and Kingdom Hearts) , I'm not sure if there's ever been a soundtrack as amazing as this.
 
  
  Length: ... damn. If anyone's played 64 or Sunshine, then you know what I'm talking about. So many 
 power stars...120 in this game (technically 121) . Each one is its own difficult mission, which 
 means that this is a hell of a long game. The main quest can end at 60 if you so choose, as that's 
 all you need to go fight Bowser. But just think about it; at the end of the entire game, you're 
 really only halfway through. That means that this game could bridge on into 30, 40, maybe even 
 50 hours. The good thing about this game is that it CAN be long, but it doesn't HAVE to be long.
 
  
  Replay Value: The cool thing about the game is that you can replay all of the missions as many 
 times as you want, even the Bowser fights and whatnot. Each mission is relatively short, so on 
 a mission to mission basis, you could play it over and over. However, as a whole, there really 
 is no reason to start ALL over again. I mean, it's just stupid. Play the missions again, fewls, 
 not the whole game.
  
  Multiplayer: There is a wee bit of multiplayer here, albait very limited. A second player can point 
 at the screen and shoot starbits, and they can also increase the jump height of Mario to some extent. 
 Your friend would have to be pretty damn patient, but multiplayer is indeed possible.
  
  Boss Fights: Just like pretty much any Mario game, the boss fights here are challenging, but not 
 to the point where you wanna smash the TV (well, to be fair, there are a few of those as well) . 
 They are all unique, creative, and fun. There's a giant flaming octopus, a fish made of bones, 
 and not to mention all of the Bowser/Bowser Jr. fights. Which brings us now to...
  
  Final Boss: Bowser is the eternal video game villian. Despite being in a more childish game like 
 Mario, Bowser is still one of the most recognizably badass villians of video game fame. The Bowser 
 fights in this game, although by no means identical, are similar enough to the ones from 64 so 
 that you feel like you're at home when fighting him. The final fight with Bowser has an incredible 
 music score, and in general... it's amazing.
  
  Extras: I probably should've mentioned this back at controls, but I think I'll do so now. There 
 are lots and lots of different suits. There's the Bumblebee suit, Boo suit, Fire suit, Ice suit, 
 and many more. Although some can get annoying (bee suit cough) , they are all entertaining, and 
 a nice flashback to the days of Mario 3, when we could fly as a racoon or hop around in a giant 
 boot.
  
  Final Statement: Like I said before, I do NOT like Mario games. In my eyes, every Mario game past 
 Yoshi's Island has just been Nintendo milking the series for all it's worth. The games weren't 
 bad; they were just no where near as good. But then came Galaxy; Galaxy literally blew me away 
 in a way that I could never imagine Mario doing. If you're a Mario fan, then please, PLEASE, get 
 this game. If you're not a Mario fan, then you should become one. If you are a Wii owner, then 
 you should own three games: FE10, Brawl, and this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hagge15
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2008 6:06 am PT
Review:  Super Mario galaxy starts a bit like Super Mario 64, Mario recessives a letter from princess peach:
 
  
  Dear Mario
  Please come to my castle, I have a surprise for you!
  peach.
  
  Or something like that. But when Mario arrives. Bowsers doom ships attacks mushroom kingdom and 
 Bowsers no longer plans to kidnap peach; He pulls her whole castle up in the space!
  
  This is how one of the greatest adventures of Mario history starts, and like super Mario 64, you 
 have 120 stars to collect (and surprise thing to discover) . The Advanture is epic. But its not 
 just the great gameplay who makes the game good, Its the flawless level design and humour. Its 
 Nintendo at its best!
  
  There are hundreds of planets to discover and around 30 galaxies to travel. There are ghost galaxies, 
 desert galaxies, toy galaxies, food galaxies and the classic grass galaxies. The music are also 
 remaked classic Mario songs, but also many new exciting ones. There's the perfect mix of new and 
 old who builds up a whole galaxy of fun!
  
  I recommend you to buy this game even if you have played Mario since super Mario bros. or if you 
 already started, I know you will love whatever kind of human you are. Jus start the game and say 
 it to yourself:
  
  - Welcome, welcome new galaxy!! (Mario voice lol)
  
  
  
  
  Sound: 9/10
  There's the perfect mix of old and new Mario tunes, you will not be disappointed!
 
  
  Graphic: 10/10
  The graphics are colourful and the design is the best I have ever seen guaranteed 10/10.
  
 
  Gameplay: 9/10
  There are challenge for everyone, its a perfect balance. But you know an Advanture game become 
 kind of boring after the first boss, but it is still very, very good.
  
  Controls: 8/10
  The controls are sweet but you feel pretty stiff while your playing for more than 2 hours, and 
 it doesn't us the wiimotes movement sensibility very much.
  
  
  Final score: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikos21982
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2008 12:36 am PT
Review:  What can i say for this game? The perfect scores that the game critics have awarded it, say it 
 all. I've been playing games for 20 years now, all kinds of titles, and this one beats them all! 
 I never thought i would have the same feeling again, as those days when i was playing super mario 
 bros 3 and super mario world. It's kinda hard when you are 26 to feel like when you were 12. But 
 Nintendo has it's way with the Super Mario games, to make you feel like you are dreaming, seeing 
 all those wonderful worlds and doing new things in every stage of the game. Believe me, if you 
 play Super Mario Galaxy, you'll understand what i'm talking about.
  When people say that Wii's graphics suck, they should see this game to understand what a bunch 
 of people with big brains can do for a console. Remember Donkey Kong Country's graphics back on 
 those days? 16 bit SNES was beating 32 and 64 bit consoles, with the best graphics and animations 
 the world had seen. If Mario wasn't Nintendo-only hero, someone would think that he is watching 
 a PS 3 game! Words can't describe what pictures can show, so have a look at some screenshots, and 
 imagine them twice better in a television. The movement is perfect, with no slowdowns , and this 
 game is lovely both to play and watch.
  The audio couldn't have been less peftect, with those classic super mario effects and songs. The 
 game introduces some new songs, but the best part is the old themes from super mario bros, which 
 are now played by an orchestra.
  I need to write about 10 pages to explain the gameplay, because each stage is different, you always 
 do new things, and there are 40 stages in the game, with 120 stars total. Many stages contain 5-6 
 stars, and even if you play the same stage to get a different star, you visit different areas and 
 do different things. The game NEVER feels repeatable, and you'll play until you get every star 
 within it.
  I spent 2 weeks to complete the game with both Mario and Luigi, playing about 3 hours per day. 
 I have big experience with the Mario titles and the game didn't seem difficult. A new gamer will 
 find it very challenging though.
  So, if you have a Wii, you must ABSOLUTELY have this title, even if you don't like platform games! 
 If you don't have a Wii, you should buy one just for this masterpiece! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quadlazor
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Through the ages there have been many mario games. Some better then the rest. "Super Mario Bros 
 3" stands high above the rest on my list intraducing the racoon and different a different style (towards 
 levels and level seletion and warp worlds) . Mario Galaxy is very much like Mario 64 but brings 
 the art and game design to a different level. There is full 3d flying like 64 but with a different 
 controll style. You can get shells to swim fast you can turn into ice and run ontop, you can skate 
 on ice. There are lots of levels with side missions and comets that change the level or make you 
 race a EVIL cosmic mario (he scares me) . The game is not based in the mushroom kingdom which disappointed 
 me because the mushroom kingdom is like the second best place (following the green hill zone from 
 sonic) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Story: Your mario. Your in space. Get some stars!
  
  Missions: Get the starts on the planets
  
  Controls: Wiimote
  
  Features: Motion 
 
  
  A. I.: Not Horrible. Loading Times: short, usually around 15 seconds when loading into diffrent 
 areas.
  
  Graphics: The best graphics so far on the wii. Everything is detaled down to the very last atom.
 
  
  Audio: Amazing. Audio is superb. Everything is good about the Audio.
  
  Multiplayer: None at all
  
  Requirements: Wii, Wiimote, hands, Love For Italian Plumbers
  
 
  The Good: Everything. This game is So good.
  
  The Bad: Nothing Really that i can think of. This game is almost perfect.
  
  The Ugly: As i 
 said before nothing. This game is almost perfect
  
  Replay Ability: High
  
  The Bottom Line: A good mario game. Probaly the best ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anime_gamer007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  This is probably the game that a lot of Wii owners have been waiting for. And I have to say it 
 is absolutely astounding. From the graphics to sound, Super Mario Galaxy is one hell of a game.
 
  
  Graphics - They could easily compete with some of the PS3 or 360 games out there. They are very 
 colorful, rich and has a "fantasy realism" to it. Mario looks the best he ever has.
  
  Sound- OMG !! The musical score for this game is incredible. The music is some of the best I ever 
 heard in a video game EVER!! The sound effects just feel so right and spot on its nothing less 
 of perfection.
  
  Gameplay- Not much has change. While what buttons you press to do a certain thing have change, 
 what you do and can do hasn't. Basically it plays like Super Mario 64 with a Wiimote and nunchuk 
 control scheme and that's a good thing. The new features are your "star shooter" which is pretty 
 self-explanatory and the spin attack which is done by shaking the wiimote or nunchuk. 
  
  Replay - Will there's absolutely replay value in Galaxy. Mostly collecting stars or by redoing 
 a level in a Galaxy because a comet has come to open a new level. Now while I haven't played Galaxy 
 a lot because I had to send my Wii away to get repaired, I'm getting back into it.
  
  Overall Super Mario Galaxy is probably the best Mario game so far and is by far one of the greatest 
 games Nintendo has ever released. Go out and buy this one right now, it'd be a waste of money to 
 rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mntnbkr
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is definitely one of the best games on the Wii right now. There is no denying 
 that the formula that Nintendo has been using for the Super Mario Brothers games works and it works 
 very well. Whether it is a 2D Mario game or a 3D Mario game the basic formula is the same and the 
 enhancements are what updates the game and makes it different from one game to another. This time 
 around Mario is off to space to, once again, save Princess Peach from the dastardly Bowser. Along 
 the way Mario must battle through Bowser's minions and a very challenging landscape in order to 
 battle Bowser and save the Princess once and for all. Well, until the next time. The controls of 
 Super Mario Galaxy are what stand it out from the previous Mario games. Run, jump, super jump and 
 stomp are all here but this time there is a new twist. With a flick of the wrist while holding 
 the Wii-mote Mario does a spin-attack. He can do it in the middle of running, standing still or 
 while in the air. The new Wii-mote controls don't stop there. Whether it is ice skating, racing 
 on a manta ray or collecting crystals with the star icon on the screen there are a bunch of new 
 things to do with the Wii-mote. The replayability factor with this game depends on how much you 
 want to collect all the stars. I'm not sure how many stars there are in the game but I think it 
 is around 100 but I don't think you need a hundred to finish the game so that's where the replayability 
 comes in. In my opinion this game is a definite buy and a must have for all fans of Nintendo and 
 Super Mario. Super Mario Bros. is the reason I asked my Mom to buy the original NES back in the 
 day and Super Mario Galaxy is a great reason for anyone to buy the Wii now. Well, if you can find 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaifrecap
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 8, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Im not only disapointed about the game, but also the gamers. This game could have been so much 
 more. First of all its way to easy. I didnt struggle to obtain any of the stars, its designed so 
 a 9 year old can finish the game.
  So, i wonder, or this game was reviewed by kids or everybody now likes easy and short video games. 
 Dont get me wrong, some levels are awesome and the gameplay is quite interesting but not perfect. 
 The only thing you can do is jump and spin around, instead of having a more skillful Mario punching 
 and kicking like on the old Mario 64. All upgrades on this game are pretty much the same and I 
 didnt find any of the to be very impresive; the bee Mario allows Mario to hover, hhmmmm sound familiar, 
 its just like F. L. U. D. D, where the water suspended Mario for a few secons.
  Boo Mario has the same funtion as Bee Mario, fly. It only allows you to fly and walk through 3 
 walls on the entire game. Spring Mario was quite ingenious but not great, and both flowers were 
 timed which makes them boring.
  I didnt feel comfortable playing the game although i finished it. I found it to be very repetitive, 
 racing the Galaxy Mario on every level, picking up starchips to feed the Lumas, and picking up 
 coins which have no use whatsoever.
  I dont think the game deserves less than a 7, because it can be quite entretaining, however in 
 my opinion it could and should have been much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninja_Rebel
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Well, first off the Wii just won't stop getting awesome games! Zelda, Mario, Super Smash Bros., 
 and soon to come Mario Kart. This is basically the best platformer ever, with it's amazing detail 
 on every stage, nice new character controls, and a (semi) new gravity feature on every level, this 
 game series has never been better! Why I do admit that the game does lack a deep story mode, it 
 does make for a nice challenge here and there. There are a total of 120 stars to collect, but you 
 need only about 60 to finish the game. The new mushrooms can sometimes be fun, the only one that 
 I have real problems with is the spring mushroom, you can easily overshoot your moves and jumps 
 sending you straight into that tiny little vortex of joy, the black hole. This though be all means 
 is one serious Mario game since now on most places you don't have to worry about running off the 
 edge of the screen that you usually had to. This is the greatest platformer out there, if not ever. 
 Now, the real only major problem and confused thing I found was the ending, while I will not give 
 out any spoliers, I can say that it just left me saying "huh?" as at the end it really made no 
 sense at all to me. This though is a must for any Mario fan or Wii owner. You star-cataplut to 
 your nearest video game store and pick it up today. (if you haven't already) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RagdollMan98
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo has always been the Pixar of gaming. With every major game they put out, they exceed with 
 rich innovated gameplay. And they have done this very well for the past decade, and Super Mario 
 Galaxy is no exception.
  
  [GRAPHICS] 9 out of 10
  
  Graphically, this game looks amazing! Some would complain that this doesn't look any different 
 from the graphics of Super Mario Sunshine. In some cases (such as the character models) I would 
 have to agree. But this game has the most artistically beautiful level designs I have ever seen 
 in a video game (or at least one of the most) . The graphics have a very cartoony look to them that 
 works and looks great doing it. The levels are varied, every level will be different, you'll be 
 jumping around a haunted house level one minute and you'll be flying through a galactic junkyard 
 the next. While it's true that they try to trick your eyes with things like motion blur and shading 
 effects (like used on the Queen Bee, to make it look like there are individual hairs on her) and 
 some of the levels look similar, that doesn't take away from the fact that this game looks amazing!
 
  
  [AUDIO] 10 out of 10
  
  There isn't much to say about the voices considering the voices are restricted to things like mumblings 
 and yells. Which isn't a bad thing, considering they sound good and it could've been like Sunshine's 
 voice-acting (*shudders*) . The sound effects are very cartoony and they work well, a lot of them 
 are from the old 2-D Mario games. The music IS FREAKING AWESOME! It sounds kinda like a Star Fox 
 game at times (which isn't bad, since they are in space) . Just listening to the music make you 
 want to rush out and buy the soundtrack. It really gets you in the mood in the type of situation 
 you are in (if you're just swimming on a tropical style galaxy, you'll hear this soothing tropical 
 island music. If you're fighting a boss, the music gets epic and makes you feel like you're fighting 
 Bowser) . A personal favorite of mine is the underground theme remix when you go down the pipes 
 into these secret areas to get 1-UPs and other stuff. The music is just the icing on the epic cake.
 
  
  [GAMEPLAY] 10 out of 10
  
  This game is fun! I could just end it right there, but I'll go into detail. The story is Bowser 
 kidnaps the princess (again) , and you must fly to the center of the galaxy to find them. But the 
 only way to do this is to get stars to power the Comet Observatory (you need 60 stars to do this) . 
 It follows the same formula as the past 3-D Mario games, you have a hub world, you go into the 
 levels through "portals", you pick the mission, and you collect the star. But they added some cool 
 features, i. e. the prankster comets. The Speedy comet, where you have to complete the level under 
 a certain time limit. The Daredevil comet, where you fight a boss with only one unit in your life 
 meter. The Cosmic comet, where you race a copy of Mario. The Fast Foe comet, where all the enemies 
 move faster. And the Purple comet, where you collect 100 purple coins (this is in later in the 
 game though) . Each level has different ways to complete it, and the power-ups you get to use just 
 add to that fun. And it is just plain cool to just hang upside down dodging Bullet Bills. And it 
 doesn't stop after you beat the game. There are a total of 120 stars in game. And after you collect 
 all of them, you can play as Luigi. And after you get all the stars and complete the game with 
 him, you can go to the Grand Finale Galaxy (which is the castle) , and collect the final, 121st 
 star.
  
  However, not to say this game isn't without problems. Sometimes the camera will get stuck behind 
 an object and that will ultimately be your death. Some of the power-ups are hard to use at first. 
 The story is still the simple "save the princess" plot. And why can't I defeat Bowser the way I 
 beat him in Super Mario 64!?
  
  [Bottom line]
  
  Despite it's minor issues, it is a classic game that everyone who has a Wii (or has a friend who 
 has a Wii) should play. Instant buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simpsons2102
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy for nintendo wii is marios latest adventure. It just like most mario games except 
 its in space. It's easily one of the best games for the wii or if not one the best games ever. 
 It is a must have for every single mario fan or wii owner. I'll break the game down according to 
 my opinion.
  
  Gameplay: Absolutely perfect! By spinning or jumping on enimies heads make this game a whole lotta 
 fun. (10)
  
  Graphics: They are the best graphics on the wii so far and are incredible (10)
  
  Controls: 
 Mostly normal except for shaking the wii remote to make mario spin, are fantastic! (10)
  
  Sound: It is mostly tracks from original mario game and some new ones (10)
  
  Price: Was about 
 $50 when it came out and still is probably the same. This game is easily worth the money (10)
 
  
  Difficulty: Everyone says it is too easy but to me i think it is just right (10)
  
  Total Score: A 10. For everything in this game to be absolutely perfect. It is a completely flawless 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beepyou34
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 23, 2008 5:25 am PT
Review:  Mario has a very rich history of providing gamers with platforming greatness, and his Wii installment 
 doesn't skip a beat. With some of the greatest level designs in the history of gaming, Mario Galaxy 
 is drop-dead gorgeous. But there is also an excellent soundtrack with classic Mario tunes and some 
 new music. And the game rarely requires you to move the camera around, but when it does, you often 
 can't get the right angle on the action. The game also has an incredible amount of variety. There 
 are a few new suits such as a bee costume, an ice suit, and a ghost suit. There are also a great 
 deal of challenges, including quite a few boss fights. And if you try to get all 120 stars, be 
 prepared for a long ride. Although some of these stars are challenging, you can get through any 
 challenge in the game with persistence. At the end of the day, Mario Galaxy is a great game that 
 is great fun throughout, begging you to come back for more. It's that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eyeronik5000
Rating: 9
Date: May 14, 2008 3:37 pm PT
Review:  I cant even bring myself to keep playing it, its that uncomfortable to play, theres no way to rest 
 your arm so its nice and it feels like mario 64 with the remote stuck on. The crystal firing is 
 completely pointless and annoying and the balancing on ball and manray racing is awful, compare 
 that to the penguin racing in the old mario and its just not as good.
  
  *Update several goes later
  
  I have now reached the first good level, staking on ice, then 
 another good level with sand. It is a shame in the blinded reviews it does not mention the terrible 
 initial levels and it takes a long time to get to the good levels, a very long time, especially 
 if you play a galaxy until its nearly done (i guess the reviewers didnt do this)
  
  I now enjoy it and I didnt think I would, although the quality of graphics and finish is not good 
 for a game of this fame. One level in the sky where you chase the rabbit the bushes look so stuck 
 on, even the textures arent the right way round and theres a small but blatent gap in the floor 
 where you can see the sky. Other touches let it down too like the horrible gold decor on the galaxy 
 doors and things like that. The attention to detail should have been far better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soenderup32
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is the greatest game of all, to Nintendo Wii! I have tried extremely many games, 
 but none as good as this!
  
  The story of the game is like the old fairytales, from the pas Mario games and the game introduction 
 is a great story, about the princess getting kidnapped!
  Also the music in Galaxy is great! It's a taste of the old classic melodies mixed with new fairytale-likely 
 melodies and the result are outstanding!
  
  They managed to make the controls perfect! They couldn't be better on a Nintendo Wii. One of the 
 special things about Galaxy, is that it takes place on little planets in space, and the way you 
 run around the planet, while the camera follows you perfectly around. It takes some time to get 
 used to running upside down, but when you have done it some times, it's really nice!
  
  The game graphics are also very nice! One of the games, with the best graphic, made for Nintendo 
 Wii! It's smooth and beautiful, all the way! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kagesasuke1128
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is a 3D Platformer that brings you the classic- or basic story of a mario game. 
 Bowser kidnapped his girlfriend (Peach) now mario has to save her. But wait- this isnt in mushroom 
 kingdom anymore its in outerspace! If you were mario, you wouldn't want to be peachs girlfriend 
 anymore after you play this game. Mario struggles through alot of galaxies to save her.
  
  This game is also tricky, it makes you really use your brain. Its long too so this game will keep 
 you up for maybe a week or more. Its one of the best games for wii. I urge you to get it.
  
  
   
 //
  //
   
  |
 
  - PeAcE
 
   
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic7777777
Rating: 9
Date: May 14, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Its definetely a great game. Its graphics are second to brawls but the gameplay is sooo good. Its 
 awesomely fun and you'll only get bored if your stuck. It has really good sound affects but Marios 
 continuous wahoos get annoying. But it has really well made characters and the levels are just 
 amazing. Thats whats the best part of it. The levels are so creatively desighned and so well made. 
 Its just an awesome game to play and just look at. I played it cooperatively with my bro and we 
 had a lot of fun, but after a while it kinda gets boring because its always another planet to walk 
 around on and get the star. Not that its not fun to walk around the planet but its always the same 
 goal, to get the star. Its still awesome though and its definetely a must get. The story line is 
 also the same with Peach getting kidnapped by Bowser but its still fun to go get her and for me 
 the main plot isn't as important as the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SagmasterX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Mario has always been my favorite character in all of gaming, and Super Mario Galaxy just adds 
 on to his greatness.
  
  The gameplay was incredible, in every almost every aspect. It was very innovative, very fun, and 
 challenging enough.
  
  Gameplay- 10/10
  
  The graphics were beautiful, and making it gravity-based was an idea that struck gold. 
  
  
 Graphics- 10/10
  
  The controls were great, with not many problems. The use of the wii remote could have been better, 
 even though I really like pointing at the screen to get star bits.
  
  Control- 9/10
  
  The sound was definitely up-to-par, although Nintendo didn't throw themselves out there to create 
 awesome music and really good voice acting. But if they did, It just would have made the game that 
 much closer to perfect.
  
  Sound- 8/10
  
  The game had a great tilt to the gameplay, and like I said, it was very innovative, definitely 
 brought some new things to the table.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt- 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Droco3
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy offers an incredible gaming journey that I encourage all gamers to take. A much 
 better entry in the series when compared to Super Mario Sunshine, Super Mario Galaxy exceeded my 
 expectations. The visuals are incredibly stunning, specifically the level design. Each planet has 
 a unique, jaw-dropping look that captures the gamer's attention and amazement. The gravitational 
 effects are mind blowing and prove to be incredibly amusing as "falling off the edge" becomes a 
 thing of the past on some levels. The game play is solid and using the variety of forms Mario is 
 able to transform into is very enjoyable. The soundtrack is absolutely incredible with memorable 
 orchestrated scores that are even worth downloading. The story is entertaining and typical considering 
 this is an entry in the Super Mario series. The Wii Remote adds excellent value to the adventure 
 and allows for accurate and enjoyable controls in any situation throughout the game. The only problem 
 I could imagine gamers' having is a slight repetition of game play, however with the varying and 
 incredible level design, unique transformations, and different mission objectives I personally 
 believe this problem is nonexistent. Super Mario Galaxy is a game of high caliber that belongs 
 with other legendary Nintendo games such as Ocarina of Time and Metroid Prime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fableguy1256
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 6:44 am PT
Review:  The first thing i did when i saw this game, was how cool it looked on the menu screen. The Mii's 
 were cool as profile icons. Then, i got into the first level and was blown away. I was finally 
 in a 3D Mushroom Kingdom styled town. Other Mario games had these aspects, but not in such a large 
 scale. This was pure genius, i thought, and it kept getting better. Soon after the ciniematics 
 I was on my way across the galaxy. The levels are rich with color, and the graphics are the best 
 on Wii. My preferred level was the Honeycomb Galaxy. Full of color, the water shimmered so amazingly 
 it was like going on a trip with mario for the first time. Some levels with a swimming aspect to 
 it ( Bubble Bowl ) were so much fun. My only complaint was that some levels got too repetitive. 
 
  
  As I ventured farther into the game, I realized that i was going too fast. The game is a little 
 too easy for my tastes. Within a few days I was done. Back in The mushroom Kingdom, for the cinematic, 
 I was excited. I was going to have time to explore the map! But, after all that I was back in the 
 galaxy. If they had something to shoot me from the galaxy to the Mushroom Kingdom that would have 
 been fun. I also wish that Mario could have had more power-ups. Some costumes were not needed as 
 much as others. The Audio was astounding, as if the orchestra was next to you, playing at the right 
 time in the right places. 
  
  The game is deeply immersive. I recommend this game for anyone, just be warned. The lasting appeal 
 of this game is not that great. I don't think that anyone would be playing this after they unlocked 
 everything for more than a few hours. Overall, One of the best, if not the best, game on Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyeyescarr
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  Wow I originally bought this game for my wife. After watching her play it for about a week I couldn't 
 take it anymore. So i picked up the controller and it was unbelievable!!! The game play rocks!!!! 
 Running around on the planets upside down is very wierd at first but once you get the hang of it 
 its awesome. Believe it or not i didn't find any noticeable glitches in this game it was just down 
 right fun as heck. The graphics are amazing the story was somewhat broken though. The little suits 
 you can use were fun but some were very frustrating to use. The water world was awesome never had 
 some much fun on a world level before. There were tons of stars to find everywhere. The bosses 
 i guess you can call them were all fun to fight some were pretty hard though. Overall this was 
 a awesome game that is very very addicting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IBLEEDBLUE33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 10:34 am PT
Review:  Wow I have actually never been a huge fan of Mario. I have always found them fun but never felt 
 compelled to finish them like I would a Zelda game. Well I must say that SMG changed my mind on 
 that because once I started I couldn't put this game down. That was one thing that is disappointing 
 about this game is that it will only take around 15 hours to finish. That is if you get as few 
 stars as possible. You can finish the game with 60 but there are a 120 possible. Lets go ahead 
 and get the other negative points out of the way. The camera while good does frustrate a little 
 at times because you don't always have total control over it. Also the main two bosses get recycled 
 about three times. There are other bosses though. But after those few slightly negative points 
 the rest of SMG is just absolutely brillant.
  
  The level design is amazing in SMG. Each level is on different planets and none feel alike for 
 the most part. The graphics are beautiful. You might question why we had to go to high def when 
 you play this game. Actually what makes the graphics so good is the art work. The amount of thought 
 that went into each level is astounding. Also a player will not become bored because every level 
 can be finished rather quickly. I found this to be very enjoyable because I always felt like I 
 was making progress. The story is very Mario esque. Bowser is trying to control the galaxy and 
 has kidnapped the princess. So you must resue Peach and save the galaxy. Also the Wii controls 
 are implemented nicely. Nintendo didn't overdo it and what they did added to the gameplay.
  
  Overall I think SMG ranks as one of the best games of 2007 and for the first time I actually 
 enjoyed a Mario game as much as a Zelda. If you own a Wii then this game needs to be part of your 
 collection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: galaxybrawler
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 3:15 am PT
Review:  mario galaxy is a game with no flaws. it looks amazing it sounds excellent and its just plain FUN. 
 in the game u play as mario in an attampt to rescue peach from the evil bowser. bowser in his typical 
 way and is trying to take over the universe and im not kidding really the whole universe. he drags 
 u into the depths of space where u travel from galaxy to galaxy retrieving the stars in order to 
 power the observatory in which u are rescued. the controls for this game is pefect with the wii 
 remote and the numchuk. it is made for any1 to play as the controls are extremely simple. also 
 it has a co-op part of the game although the second player can only retrieve star bits and help 
 the 1st player jump. this game is almost perfect but the gtame can become boring after a while. 
 after u have retrieved a couple of stars its time for another game. but those 2 stars are full 
 of fun and exciting adventures with our favourite classic friend MARIO. The boss battle when you 
 battle bowser is way too easy and should have been very hard. and once you finish mario galaxy 
 you get to play as luigi and then finish it all over again yay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benboz
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2008 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is on the Wii and it is the best Mario game I have ever played since Super Mario 
 64. The levels are awesome and the graphics are so good compare to the other Wii games. The controls 
 are really easy to use in every situation of the game. Also there are some new moves for Mario 
 like a spinning attack where you move the Wii remote side to side. The Soundtrack is still the 
 same Mario stuff which is cool because it fits the game. 
  
  In the game, you have to jump from galaxy to galaxy to get Power Stars. When you get enough, you 
 will verus Bowser. See, it is like Super Mario 64 but heaps better. Also you can change into different 
 suits like you can be a Bee and fly and climb honeycomb walls. But there is other suits as well.
 
  
  The game is like Super Mario 64 but more crazy and fun and that is why this game makes a great 
 game because it is similar to Super Mario 64.
  
  So if your a Mario fan or a Wii owner, you will probably love this game. This game is da best Mario 
 game like Super Mario 64. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stephano_Chelio
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Well i was super prepared for super mario galaxy to be amazing from the start and my prayers were 
 answered. walking out on that first galaxy hearing the great orchestrated music and such and first 
 experiencing the whole gravity stuff was inspirational. i played through the first 60 starts in 
 about 8 hours and then finished all 120 in about 20 and then found out about the second time through 
 with luigi and was all phyched. buuuut unfortunately it wasnt too hot. not only did the already 
 pretty lame story not change but it was super lame talking to luigi AS luigi. its been 3 months 
 and it just ran out of steam for me and i cant bring myself to beat it a second time. Otherwise 
 the game is great. possibly the best gameplay on a game ever, as well as some awesome graphics 
 for the wii. It was surprisingly dissapointing but that might be just me cuz this is like the most 
 amazing platformer everrr 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rester
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Graphics
  Visuals are great. Colorful, rich, fantastic. Everything is tight, smooth, supports gameplay perfectly 
 
  
  
  Sounds
  Classic tunes, perfect sound effects. Spot on
  
  Gameplay
  Level design is the sickest I have ever seen in a game. Every level is different, exciting, surprises 
 you at every corner. There is not one bit of repetition, every inch is a work of art in terms of 
 creativity and game design. And when you thought the game has played all its cards, it comes up 
 with a new twist that will have you play more. Game is not hard, but not easy either, bot most 
 importantly, never frustrating. Any obstacle can be overcome with the right tactics
  
  Longevity
  The game adopt a similar structure to Mario64 - you can finish the game in 10 hours 
 or so by playing around 50 levels, but if you want to complete everything it will take you way 
 more (120 levels and some of them are HARD) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xsplitsolo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  super mario sunshine was an ok game. it wasent as good as mario 64 though. i was sad. but super 
 mario galaxy fixes everything. this is the reall deal. like the name you play as mario and collect 
 power stars in diffrent galaxies. theres tons of galaxies and some are so good you will play them 
 a lot more than once. the graphics look awesome and the music is cool too. but the gameplay is 
 the best. gravity is your best friend, you will get pulled by a peice of planet almost always so 
 you can preform these awesome tricks. the controls make running on planets a lot of fun. i found 
 some levels to be rather challenging, but others to be easy. it feels weird when yuou waste 4 lives 
 to get a star and then take 1 minute or sometin to get the next one. but still most levels are 
 just right. i think super mario galaxy is the best reason to get the wii right now, so if you are 
 a mario fan without a wii get one with this game, you will get all you want and more, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mack2D2
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 II: Mario in Space
  That's how I feel about this game. It's really fun, don't get me wrong, but I don't feel like Nintendo 
 took to the HNL (hole nutha level) that they are capable of doing. Running around on little tiny 
 planets, battling bosses that are as big as the planet itself is incredibly fun at times but I 
 find myself becoming disoriented quite often and I'm no rookie to games that try to do that to 
 you. As for the storyline, it's the same old thing, and that's more than welcome... I'm not complaining 
 here, it's been the same since '82 so no need to try to fix it if it aint broken. There is the 
 inclusion of a depressing side story that I think should have been left out though, so if you get 
 the chance, avoid the library unless you like an extreme change of pace for the worse.
  
  Controls are awesome, and the game does an amazing job at not over-using all of the wiimote capabilities. 
 It mixes them in from time to time in a small enough quantity that it's really fun but not over 
 bearing... for the majority of the game you'll find yourself playing the exact same manner as you 
 did with Mario 64, with the addition of a pointer to shoot stars. This is a control system that 
 is immediately tough for some beginners not familiar with analog controllers (trust me, they're 
 out there...) but proves to be perfect for a 3rd person adventure game such as this once you become 
 accustomed to them.
  
  Graphics are beautiful for a Wii game so far, and the glossy finish to mario was annoying at first 
 but I found myself appreciating his shiny coating after a little while.
  
  All in all this is an incredibly fun game, but I found myself being a bigger fan of Mario 64 than 
 this one. I remember in 64 I was hungry to get every single star in the game, but with this one 
 I couldn't get into it as much for some reason, and found that I simply wanted to beat Bowser and 
 finish rather than collect every single star.... this does however add to the lasting appeal for 
 me, because from time to time I go back to this game and get one or two stars that I passed up 
 the first time through. There isn't another game out there right now that feels like Mario Galaxy, 
 so you'll find yourself coming back for more when you're hungry for a dose of originality.
  
  So while I wouldn't call this the most original of the Mario games, I wouldn't say it's a bad 
 game. Mario 64 was quite possibly my favorite Mario game ever, 2nd only to Mario World... so more 
 of the same with a few minute added features is a good thing in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  If you are one of the 5 people in the world that haven't purchased this game yet, GO BUY THIS GAME.
 
  
  good: fantastic visuals. Perfect controls. pure fun. long single-player. muli-player (kinda) . 121 
 stars to collect.
  
  bad: multi-player is a joke. not enough "normal" levels. to meny "fragment" levels.
  
  When 
 I say that there arn't enough "normal" levels, I mean there arn't enough levels that your on ONE 
 big level, not like there are alot of very tiny levels in one level. Like you land on a star do a 
 tiny puzzle then you go on a warp star that launches you to a different star and repeat. I would 
 have liked to of had more levels with just one massive piece of land to explore not tiny little 
 planets. All in all this is a near perfect title that everyone with a wii should own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stupid_Alien
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is truly a great game, but there have been a few mistakes that should have been 
 fixed along the way. For those who don't know about this game, you play as Mario (and later Luigi, 
 Mario's brother) as he goes save Princess Peach from the evil King Bowser, again (honestly, Peach 
 needs to get better security than two plumbers and a bunch of Toads) . Anyways, Mario is now in 
 space, with the help of Lumas, star creatures, and a new person in the Mario history, Rosalina. 
 Galaxy isn't a departure to the series, not like Sunshine anyways. You get the classice three jumps, 
 the goombas, the koopas, the classic enemies, some new enemies, original music, new powers, old 
 powers, and the big guy himself, Bowser. The boss battles are varied and fun, and you fight Bowser 
 like you did in 64. You can see that this game is getting back on track. You can even play as Luigi, 
 once you beat the game with all 120 stars (yes, you have to go through that, again.) Now, here's 
 the downside. The feel of the game does feel familiar, but it lost some of its touch. Mario seems 
 slower, he lost some of his height in jumping, and his voice is now terrible, compared to his previous 
 games. Sure, a lot is familar, but lets face it, this certainly not the 64 title we worshipped. 
 Also, the difficultly is now even higher, but some how you won't get a game over. There are so 
 many of those stinking 1-up's that you could die 20 times, but you'll end up with 40 lifes remaining. 
 You die all you want, but looks like you won't a game over that easily. Also, the 1-up's never 
 disappear. They stay there, even if you die. You could play forever, and still not get a game-over. 
 What was Nintendo thinking? Next there's the extremely annoying side missions to get all 120 stars. 
 They are hard. Real hard. Be prepared to die, a lot. Especially for the Toy Box level for the purple 
 coins. The two-player option isn't very necessary; all it does is kill the first player easier 
 if you're not ready. The last is Luigi. He isn't worth all those 120 stars to play as. His voice 
 is even more annoying than Mario's, and his controlls stink more than Mario's. Well, I have said 
 a lot of bad things for this game, but these really don't hamper the fact that this is still a 
 great, overall game for all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer6464
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario galaxy was my most hyped wii game. It didn't quite live up to the hype for me, but 
 I still really enjoyed it. The main problem with it was its difficulty. It has about 75% too easy, 
 15% just right, and 10% too hard. Another problem was that it started to seem repetitive about 
 80% of the way through. Enough with the bad though, this game plays great and looks fantastic. 
 The best graphics on the wii by far. The controls work great, and its got plenty of innovative 
 ideas. Their is a ton of variety. There are over 40 galaxies that are mostly unique. The sound 
 is the best part. This game has such amazing music it will keep you replaying some of the levels, 
 such as gusty garden galaxy and buoy base galaxy, just to hear it. Overall its a must buy game 
 for wii, and you probably know that, but its definately not a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wild_Card
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  This is how legends are born. Just plain greatness. The graphics are great "for a wii game" This 
 game screams polished. You can tell with in the first our that the devs put alot of time and love 
 into this game. The levels are great and extremly fresh. Deffently not a rehash. truly a master 
 piece and a must by unless you just REALY hate platformers, mario or nintendo lol. While some levels/stars 
 are very easy and takes little effort to get there are some that do give you a challenge. And there 
 are alot of them. If there was one weak point to this game it would be that the starbits as well 
 as a few levels are just to colorfull and makes you feel like your in a game of candy land. just 
 kinda makes my teeth hurt lol. I think Ninty got a little to cute and light hearted for its own 
 good in a few of the levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErikWaters
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  The guy has done it all. He's mastered Mushroom Kingdom, explored every nook and cranny of the 
 Princess' Castle, played janitor to an entire world, and is apart of so many extracurricular activities 
 that it's a wonder he has time to clean his iconic blue overalls. Yep, Mario is a busy guy, but 
 his latest adventure on the Nintendo Wii will have him packing an overnight bag to somewhere he's 
 never visited before: outer space.
  
  While exploring outer space automatically makes Super Mario Galaxy seem like a breath of fresh 
 air, the game is collection of familiar characters and themes that continue to make Mario games 
 great.
  
  As far as familiar goes, Bowser is one again up to his annual (or is he on monthly now?) kidnapping 
 trip to Mushroom Kingdom with a certain blond princess in mind. Completing his mission as usual, 
 Bowser rips the Princess' Castle from the ground and travels into space with it, and Mario, in 
 tow.
  
  Familiar characters and plot devices aside, Super Mario Galaxy really takes off with its brand 
 new way to play. Using the Wii's unique controller, players are able to control Mario's movements 
 with the nunchuck controller's joystick. Opposite of the nunchuck, the Wiimote allows players to 
 aim at the screen and collect colorful items called star bits. These items in turn can be shot 
 back at enemies to stun them from afar, allowing Mario to finish them off up close. 
  
  Even though the game's main objective remains collecting stars throughout the various levels, this 
 new way of controlling Mario makes the familiarity of item collecting seem fresh again.
  
  Also new to the way Mario is played is the introduction of spherical worlds. These round planet-like 
 levels allow Mario to run completely around the sphere while being held to it by its gravitation 
 pull. If near a larger spherical object, Mario can jump in the air and become pulled into the larger 
 object's pull. For planets or objects too far away, star launch pads are found or uncovered for 
 the sole purpose of launching Mario into deeper space so he can reach his next destination.
  
  Once players get accustomed to the slightly disorienting controls, the game really takes off 
 into the stratosphere of fun. By collecting stars from each of the numerous galaxies, more galaxies 
 are then opened to explore. These galaxies all contain a central theme, such as a haunted house 
 galaxy with the timid Boo ghosts or an aquatic galaxy with race-happy penguins. Any and every galaxy 
 is wonderfully realized with tons of challenges.
  
  With a game this perfected and fun, it really is hard to pick out negative aspects to point out, 
 but Super Mario Galaxy isn't without a few. While incredibly fun, boss fights are too easy and 
 can usually be beaten with one life. Even the final boss, who requires hours upon hours to get 
 to through star collecting, is embarrassingly easy and requires no skills gained throughout the 
 game.
  
  Also, the star bits seem sort of a gimmick rather than a necessity. Rarely is it necessary to use 
 a star bit to battle an enemy, but good news is that they can be used as a sort of currency to 
 reach new levels, which is always appreciated.
  
  These things aside, Super Mario Galaxy truly is a return to true Mario perfection, especially after 
 the disappointing Super Mario Sunshine on GameCube. With 120 stars to collect, numerous secrets 
 to discover, and even a simple two-player mode that allows a second player to help collect star 
 bits and shoot them back, Super Mario Galaxy is the biggest reason to continue to hunt through 
 stores and eBay for the still ever elusive Nintendo Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverick_41
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 7:47 am PT
Review:  Story
  
  Shortly after Mario is invited to the centennial Star Festival that celebrates the comet that passes 
 overhead, Bowser invades the Mushroom Kingdom with a surprise attack in a fleet of airships. Summoning 
 a giant saucer, he rips Princess Peach's entire castle from its foundations and lifts it into outer 
 space. After an unsuccessful rescue attempt, Mario is catapulted across the cosmos by a Magikoopa 
 and awakens on a small planet. On the planet he meets a mysterious woman called Rosalina and her 
 companion stars, the Lumas. Rosalina is a watcher of the stars, who uses her mobile Observatory 
 to travel across the universe. However, the Power Stars that act as the Observatory's power source 
 have all been stolen by Bowser, rendering it immobile. Bestowed with the power to travel through 
 space, Mario sets off on an intergalactic adventure across the universe to reclaim the Power Stars 
 and restore power to Rosalina's observatory.
  
  Upon collecting enough Power Stars, Rosalina's Observatory has enough power to transform into a 
 comet and fly to the center of the universe, where Peach is held captive. Confronting Bowser, Mario 
 learns that Bowser's plan is to rule the entire universe with Peach at his side, using a newly 
 constructed sun of his own via the power of the Grand Stars. Mario manages to defeat Bowser and 
 free Peach, but Bowser's sun collapses onto itself, becoming a supermassive black hole and consuming 
 the universe. All of Rosalina's Lumas jump into the black hole to destroy it, but sacrifice themselves 
 in the process. Rosalina appears to Mario, stating that stars never die, but are later reborn as 
 new stars. Mario awakens in the restored Mushroom Kingdom filled with partying characters and enemies, 
 alongside Peach and Bowser, welcoming the new galaxy that has emerged in the skies. At the end 
 of the credits Mario will thank you for playing his game.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  Oh man, the gameplay in this game is amazing! The level design is supurb. It has some great boss 
 fights. Gravity is a cool new feature although it can take a bit to get used to. The only problem 
 with it is that some of the suits that help you along the way are quite a bother. All in all this 
 game's gameplay is supurb!
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Graphics
  
  Great lighting along with some amazing cutscenes. Planets look amazing, and Mario looks his best. 
 Simply one of the best looking games on the Wii
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Control
  
  Control is great, but sometimes it can be a hassle. 3D platforming games will never be perfect 
 as far as platforming goes, but Super Mario Galaxy takes the gerne to new heights!
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Sound
  
  One of the best soundtracks in all of video games. It simply sounds enchanting!
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Overall
  
  Simply amazing! My favorite Mario game to date! A must have for a Wii owner. This game is a system 
 seller!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RTRGRZA
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 11:25 pm PT
Review:  If you are like me, you have set plenty of time aside to play Super Mario Galaxy, my pick for Game 
 of the Year. The game starts out like many Mario games do. You get an invitation from Princess 
 Peach to meet her at the castle the night of the Star Festival, a once every hindred year celebration 
 when a comet passes over the Mushroom Kingdom. Unfortunately, Bowser and his thugs crash the party 
 kidnap the princess (with the entire castle too) , and send you into outer space. You are rescued 
 by a Peach lookalike called Rossalina, who protects chubby looking stars called Lumas. She gladly 
 wants to help you rescue Peach and stop Bowser's evil plans, but for that, you need to find enough 
 Stars to power her spaceship\observatory. What leads is one of Mario's greatest games ever. Unlike 
 your trip to Delfino Island in Super Mario Sunshine, this is truly a spiritual successor to Mario 
 64. It sustains all the way through as a true Mario platforming experience. The galaxies you'll 
 explore are all very varied and each feature their own challenges. The sheer variety of things 
 to do will guarantee you won't get bored. The game also features lots of fan service, from classic 
 music cues, to the return of fan-fave Magikoopa, to big Boss Fights with Bowser. Uses of the wii 
 remote are truly minimal. You control Mario's basic movements with the control stick and you jump 
 with the A button. You ground pound by jumping and pressing the Z button. Your basic attack is 
 a spin executed by shaking the remote. Besides some other areas that require motion sensitivity, 
 you don't feel that the motion sensitivity is being forced into the game. That doesn't mean the 
 ganeplay is bad. This is advanced platforming built on the foundations of every platform and run-and-gun 
 game before it... and takes it to an entire new level. This game is to platforming what Portal is 
 to shooters. There are only a few problems with the game: Underwater swimming could still use some 
 work and the challenges can get a little repetitive later on in the game. But those are really 
 small complaints. Every challege has been looked into until it's perfect. This perfect platforming 
 just keeps inventing and never falls flat. Overall, you'll never recreate the feeling we had when 
 we first played Super Mario 64. Seeing Mario in 3D for the first time was a revelation and is a 
 feeling you can never recreate. Super Mario Galaxy comes as close as humanely possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guyguyguy1234
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  A fun long adventure. Its a great platformer. What else could you want. However there were a few 
 things that I hated. Like after about a week it lost m y i n t r e s t. . . . . . . . . . . . It 
 hurt my head when the gravity t u r n s . . . . However its fun and its mario.
  
  I love the graphics and the controls. Its a fun game! Fun characters and a t t t t t t o o o o 
 o n n n n n n of levels , objectives , stars , planets , galaxies , and things to do!
  
  This game made me scream a few times, Sometimes I threw the contols. Sometimes the gravity hurt 
 my head or made me nauseous. But if you like platformers. You gotta pick this up!
  
  Im not saying its bad. It is a master piece, But it was fun for a little bit. Then it was fun again 
 3 days later. Then it wasnt. Its fun and if you like mario and platformers. Buy this game! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlbertoML
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  There's just too much to say about this game but to keep it short, if you partially like videogames, 
 or any kind of entertainment, for sure will you have fun with this game, it's meant to be a fun 
 game, regardless of your age or gender.
  
  At first I didn't like the game because it felt more kiddy than usual, and well, I love my gruesome 
 games, but once you start playing and get the hang of this game, it will enchant you because it 
 really is very darn fun to play!
  
  The game is the ultimate evolution of Mario 64, marrying it with the enchantment and artistry of 
 the 2D Mario games. Mario is able to do almost everything he could do in SM64, but with some little 
 tweaks and using the Wiimote accordingly, and it really feels very natural.
  
  Besides using some motion controls (such as to glide through vines or to punch enemies by performing 
 a spin attack) , the whole perspective of the game is what makes it different from the rest, because 
 of the excentric camera angles, because instead of exploring large 3D worlds like in SM64, you'll 
 explore now small planetoids, being able to walk all around them, and jumping from planetoid to 
 planetoid and even navigating through space. Also, the inclusion of some Mario-classic elements 
 such as old characters, themes and items that will really make old fans smile for the fan service, 
 which isn't forced at all, it's a perfect blend of old and new. The only thing I have some complaints 
 of is that sometimes performing moves isn't as accurate as you'd like to, but it's not that much 
 of a deal breaker.
  
  Now, regarding technical aspects, this game is EXCELLENT, in almost every conceivable way. The 
 graphics, besides of being beautiful artistically speaking, just defy the boundaries of the Wii 
 horsepower, as all worlds look great, like nothing on Wii yet, and all running at 60 fps, a number 
 which rarely drops but not that much, it must drop to fifty-something. But for me, even greater 
 than its graphics was the game's sound, it's just... flawless; the game features a fully-orchestrated 
 soundtrack that will encourage you to play the levels again and again just to hear those tracks 
 once more; also, the execution of Dolby Pro Logic II is excellent, it's the icying on the cake.
 
  
  The game is somewhat long, and you'll have a second quest once you finish it that will hook you 
 up to keep on playing, and it features a co-op mode but I haven't tried it, because it seems a 
 little-bit forced, as the second player only works as a cursor on screen.
  
  Do you want to play a really fun game? Try this one out, if you're young you'll have something 
 to remember later when you grow older, and if you're already grown up, you'll feel like a kid again. 
 This game accomplishes something very difficult to do, especially for such an old franchise that 
 has accomplished this many times before, and it is to reinvent the way games are played. It is 
 a true masterpiece and will be long remembered as THE GREAT INSTALLMENT that perfectioned the Mario 
 formula.
  
  Presentation: 10/10
  Graphics: 10/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Lasting Value: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wael_rajab
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  this game is really fun it is just like Mario 64 but diffrent levels and more. The levels in this 
 game are incredebly made they are full of suprises and well made..
  
  When i started playing this game i played for so long non stop it is really addictive you can never 
 put your remote down. Also the levels will never bore you, you can play them daily and still wanna 
 play it.
  Also you can play 2 players on Mario Galaxy the second player helps you out threw the game and 
 gets star bits and makes you jump higher and shoots people with the star it really helps if you 
 are stuck. ( I wasnt stuck)
  
  This game is pretty long you go throught all the glaxyas and try to save your brother Luigi and 
 others. To beat the whole game you need 121 stars and you have completed it but you still are allowed 
 to play levels ove rand over.
  
  I hope you take the game in consideration and buy it. Have fun with the game and i hope you enjoy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mapler2006
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2008 2:28 am PT
Review:  i can't belive how amzing this game is. it has to be the most greatest and easist game ever made 
 for nintendo its two times as better the the first super mario game. im not kidding it is amazing. 
 so you control mario on a quest to save the princess peach yet agian but this time hes got zero 
 gravity on his side. as you fly across the far galaxys you will fight many bosses that all have 
 a way to die but the creaters said that they wanted a game that any one can play and they did its 
 super mario galaxy. as for the music there is some new and some classic. some galaxys may have 
 music from past super mario games. the graphics are just as amazing as the gameplay and sound combined. 
 the planets and galaxys and backgrounds will amaze you every time you play. if anyone does not 
 agree with me. must have never played this game before and they should play it now. please look 
 at for my other reviews who knows mabye i won't like you fave game. but we will have to see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlucardsFate
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Whether you know it or not, I was a big fan of Mario way back. (Super Mario Bros 3 is still one 
 of my 5 favorites of all time) But then again, who wasn't? Which is why I was so disheartened the 
 past two generations with Super Mario 64 and Super Mario Sunshine, while good games, they never 
 really clicked with me and I ended up not finishing either of them. There was something missing 
 from them, something unexplainable. A feeling that just wasn't there. New Super Mario Bros tried 
 to return it, but the game was simply way too easy. (I should never have 60+lives on my first run 
 through!)
  
  Then came the Wii, and Super Mario Galaxy. While I expected another good 3-D Mario outing that 
 I wouldn't move my way to the finish of, I got something entirely different. The feeling that I 
 had almost completely forgotten about... had returned. The head stomping, twitch jumping Mario with 
 an incredibly creative sense of adventure that I knew and loved so well in the past was back!
 
  
  For the first time in over a decade, my girl Peach was kidnapped and I absolutely couldn't wait 
 to take to Bowser's castle to rescue her. But to do that, I would need to learn to control my re-found 
 friend. And boy does he control like dream. This is the first Wii game I've played that finds fun, 
 creative and practical ways to use the Wii-Mote. You'll be an expert inside of 10 minutes and forget 
 your even using the remote just as quickly. You'll be spin attacking Goomba's in no time.
  
  Needless to say, the game is beautiful. I've heard some people say it looks exactly like Super 
 Mario Sunshine. Only to the untrained eye. Eagle eyed players will notice little details on Mario's 
 overalls but more importantly in the lush planets he'll explore. Everything is bright and colorful 
 and flying through space at high speed is a visual treat.
  
  Speaking of which, the stages themselves are designed exceptionally well. I never felt lost or 
 confused as to what needed to be accomplished. The game was a little easier then say, the Mario 
 games of old but thats not to say its too easy. It always had a way of keeping me on my toes. Tricky 
 jumps, sometimes many in a row from a freaky new perspective is a great deal of fun to tackle. 
 A few new powerups and the triumphant return of the fire-flower add to the fun.
  
  I played this game like a drug for two weeks until I finished it, neglecting all else for it. Its 
 not very often that any game does that to me, and a Mario game hasn't done that since I was still 
 in Elementary school. This one is a masterpiece, plain and simple. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mytsco
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is so far the best Mario game Nintendo ever made. The new scenery and galaxies 
 are encouraging better graphics for the Wii. Top notch gamers were impressed, and still are, with 
 the overview of the game. Even Mario has gained more details! With his bee suit, he is now able 
 to fly. Even if it is limited, being a bee is way more fun than having a hat with wings. With every 
 new power comes more fun! Boo Mario makes us know our enemy (boos) better. If you can't beat them 
 join them! The new story book helps us understand how everything happened. Once again, Mario the 
 plumber must save Peach from Bowser. Now, there's different enemies to learn how to handle. Instead 
 of jumping through pictures, you fly through galaxies! The picture thing was awesome at first, 
 but after a few years it does tend to get old. The galaxies are different, and require different 
 skill to complete. Sometime's you'll need to make all the platforms a new color, or just complete 
 the level by following a path and defeating a boss. Nintendo is doing a great job in producing 
 improved games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ST3-3YA
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game I didn't really know what to expect. Would it be good, bad. I thought it would 
 be good and when I first played it it changed my mind. It wasn't good, it was great. By far the 
 best Mario game i've played before.
  Better graphics, in 3D!, more levels, different and better enemies, Zero gravity. So many improvements 
 it's just feels like a new game, first of a series. If you've got a wii then I recommend you get 
 this game. My second favourite on the wii followed by RE4. I think this is a must get game for 
 Mario fans and even people who havn't played any Mario games in the past. It will blow your mind 
 away. Theres soo much more to do. 
  Is it out on game cube? If it is and you have both wii and gamecube then definetly choose the wii 
 version. If any one can find a better Mario game then please tell me because I don't believe there 
 is on :) .
  You can spend hours on this game and still not get bored. You really should get this game or at 
 least try it out and see what you think. I know you'll love it. If any one doesn't like this game 
 then I don't like you. Simple as that. xD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BEYOND-CREATION
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is an amazing game . after a while , you can notice the great graphics in the 
 game , with all the amazing colors and effects you also notice the great soundtrack that will hypnotize 
 you
  you notice the great story and the flow that it has on you you notice the fun and excitment that 
 which this game brings AND FINALLY YOU NOTICE THAT YOUR gameplay MEANT NOTHING BEFORE super mario 
 galaxy :P it is seriously one of the best games on the wii so far such a great sequel for the mario 
 series .... in space .... :D THE RESCUE FOR THE PRINCESS NEVER GETS OLD !!!!
  
  
  there is alot of simple gameplay hours like surfing , coloring planets and stuff .... very entertaining 
 !!! 
  
  also , there is alot of really cool suits like the ghost suit or the bee suit that excite and better 
 the gameplay of this game !!! 
  
  personally , i ended up regretting finshing the game .... gladly , there is SUPER SMASH BROS brawl 
 !!! 
  great game overall ... long live MARIO :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erebyssial
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 3:57 am PT
Review:  The Good: Fantastic level designs || Great use and mix of controls || Beautifully orchestrated 
 music ||
  
  The Bad: Camera angles can get awkward || Storyline isn't anything new ||
  
  ________________________
  
  The storyline in the game is like most other Mario games - 
 Peach has been kidnapped by Bowser, and once again Mario has to save her. You'll have to go through 
 numerous worlds to collect power stars which gradually gain back power to the observatory, eventually 
 being able to go and give Bowser a nice visit.
  
  If you've played previous 3D Mario platformers, the way the game is played will seem quite familiar 
 - namely having to collect 120 power stars for completion. These stars are scattered around a variety 
 of galaxys, which are all very well designed, ranging from fire, ice and water worlds to deserts, 
 space and toy lands. Each one has a different way to find, whether it be solving puzzles, fighting 
 monsters or going through a range of challenges. As your star count increases, you'll be able to 
 access new worlds, increasing in difficulty and the process continues with boss battles through 
 the way, with until you're at the end of the game. Unlike previous Mario games where there are 
 minimal worlds each with lots of stars, Galaxy contains many more, and it feels really good to 
 be constantly traveling to different levels rather than the same ones over and over.
  
  The Wii controls work pretty much flawlessly. The new spin technique is done by giving the Wii 
 remote a small shake, and is used to great effect such as being able to throw shells, attack enemies 
 and fly through fling stars - which take you from place to place in levels. Then theres the pointer 
 which also works very well, and even better mixed with the spinning move. While moving around with 
 the control stock on the nunchuck, the pointer on the remote is aimed at the screen and displays 
 as a little blue star, with its main use being simply pointing at starbits to collect them, rather 
 than having to physically touch them. Starbits are a great addition and add interesting gameplay 
 elements, including shooting them at enemies to stun them, and feeding a certain amount to Luma's 
 to open up new worlds. These worlds are usually smaller levels with one puzzle or challenge, such 
 as tilting your remote in races to control a manta ray. The bottom line about the game's use of 
 controls is the fact that nothing is forced on you, mainly excessive waggle. The last addition 
 worth mentioning are the new suits Mario can transform into. Bee Mario lets you fly around for 
 a limited time, Fire Mario lets you throw fireballs obviously, any a few others. The only complaint 
 I have is Spring Mario, which can be unusual to control.
  
  The true successor to the revolutionary Mario 64, Galaxy shows that the platforming genre can still 
 produce some of the best games in existance. Every star you get gives you a feel of satisfaction, 
 especially the more challenging ones, and it's safe to say the game maintains that pretty much 
 through to the end. The beautifully orchestrated music and amazing art direction comes together 
 with fantastic gameplay and value, making it the best Wii game, and one of the best games this 
 gen, to date. A must have experience for any type of gamer, and one of the best reasons to buy 
 a Wii.
  
  Overall Score: 95 / 100 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benwest96
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  I've got to say that I had been looking forward to this game since it was first announced. All 
 in all, it is a very good game.
  
  My only letdown was the fact that I had anticipated so much, and over-hyped it too much that I 
 was a little disappointed at first. I kind of feel like they could have done more with it... I 
 would have preferred less Galaxies with more Stars in each. I personally felt that having only 
 3 Stars per Galaxy (excluding comets) was too little. I didn't really have enough time to get the 
 feel of the area.
  
  I also think that the main hub, the Observatory, could have been a lot better; it just didn't compare 
 to the inspiring Delfino Plaza.
  
  I really don't think I could call this an 'instant classic' like Super Mario 64, though.
  
 
  Overall, if you're looking for a challenge, and you don't have too high expectations, you going 
 to enjoy this game, a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schoolsucks2005
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  I've played a lot of the Mario games, and I really enjoyed most of them. I was really looking forward 
 to this game before it came out, and when I played it... I was left speechless it is SO good. In 
 fact, not just good but pure excellence! The graphics are stunning and shows the Wii's full potential, 
 and the character designs are as awesome as usual. I also have to say that this game is highly 
 original and almost everything is a new idea. Like the powerups which come into the game for example. 
 I like them all myself and especially liked the useage of Fire Mario from the classic 2D games 
 and they rendered it into 3D really well. The levels in this game are very well thought up and 
 the boss battles are fun too. This game is pretty easy when compared to '64' and 'Sunshine', but 
 it is so much fun that it doesn't really matter. The music is amazing, and I just love listening 
 to the background music, it's the best Mario soundtrack since the wonderful Super Mario 64. Another 
 really good thing is that once you complete the game 100%, Luigi is fully playable for the first 
 time ever in a platforming 3D Mario game (other than Mario 64 DS, but I'm talking about the main 
 3) . 
  
  This game is overall a brilliant experience for both younger and older gamers. If you haven't played 
 it yet, I'd suggest you give this game a go, you will not regret it. It's not perfect but it's 
 not far off from it, so I give this game a 10/10 for being such a masterpiece!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smoothe006
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  I have been playing this game for a while now, and I must say that it's fantastic. I haven't been 
 able to devote as much time as I'd like, but that's what happens when you have to work everyday.
 
  
  The game play of Galaxy is amazing. I love the way they have incorporated the wiimote into it and 
 I feel it's good enough. Sure there can be other ways to use the wiimote, but maybe in the future 
 they'll make an update or something.... maybe. All of the different levels and ways to explore are 
 also very good. I admit, playing upside down on some levels is a bit challenging, but you get used 
 to it after a few deaths. The camera angles can be confusing, but its easy to get over it. 
  
  The music is great. Everytime I'm just walking around on the Starship, I catch myself humming 
 along to the music and it's just really relaxing. I find this is great because after a level that 
 might've gotten you peeved, the soothing music of home gets you relaxed and mellowed out. 
  
  The character transformations are great as well. I'll admit, the springy suit is somewhat of 
 a pain in the arse, but once you get the hang of it, it's not too difficult. The bee is my favorite. 
 
  
  The most challenging part of the game are the various comets. I've been trying to complete the 
 purple comets and I get frustrated everytime.... so beware. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolly66
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 3:41 am PT
Review:  mario galaxy is a challenging... awsome -turn ya head game- its outstanding graphics (for a wii) 
 and its legendary gameplay make this game the best wii game so far.. the gameplay is great!, outstanding 
 storyline.. i mean who expected mario to be in space next.. I sure didn't...... oh boy! the joy of 
 flying around in open space and long jumping around planets makes this game one of a kind... the 
 game is actuly very long too... that is if u collect all power stars (120!) but alone you would 
 love this game after getting the first star!.. oh and dont think thats all... Mario comes back in 
 all new suits like fire mario (the ability to shoot fireballs) , spring Mario (the ability to jump 
 really high!) , bee Mario (the ability to climb up nectar and fly) , boo Mario! (the ability to go 
 through solid objects and float) , ice Mario (can walk on ice and up waterfalls!) ... and the best part 
 is having a little giggle at his silly costume he wears.. boss fights are also very epic (as always) 
 but these are 20 % more epic.. (that makes 120%) ... over all I think you would be nuts to miss out 
 on this game so bravo nintendo.... Bravo!
  
  gameplay: fully sickkkkkkkK!!!!
  
  graphics: nice for a wii game
  
  length: just right 
  
  fun for: everyone! even your gramps 
 :P
  
  over all rating : 9.5- awsome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeonNinja
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 10:40 pm PT
Review:  To say that Mario is one of the most important franchises in gaming is more than just opinion; 
 it's a fact that can't be contested. To have that label attached to a single name is both a blessing 
 and a curse. Every single Mario game has been lauded and applauded for bringing innovation and 
 refinement to a now stagnant genre. So imagine my disappointment at the lackluster Super Mario 
 Sunshine. It lacked innovation but even that would have been forgivable if the platforming in the 
 game genuinely meant something. Sunshine may have been a solid gaming experience, but many gamers 
 expected more than quirky fun from the mascot of all of gaming.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy definitely had a lot to live up to in order to make the name Mario mean something 
 again.
  
  But Mario Galaxy didn't make Mario mean something again; it did more than that. Galaxy has become 
 the poster-child for all platforming games, breathing not only new life into the Super Mario franchise, 
 but into the entire platforming genre itself.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy begins innocently enough, with Princess Peach inviting Mario to the castle for 
 some festival involving stars (it can only possible with Mario!) . But things go awry as the castle 
 is attacked by none other than Mario's arch-nemesis, Bowser and a fleet of flying (!) pirate ships. 
 The nod to Super Mario Bros. 3 is a welcome one. The first thing you'll notice is that unlike in 
 Sunshine, Bowser is genuinely evil and not in a Jacuzzi. You'll also come to grips with one other 
 new addition to the franchise, the unskippable cutscene. The intro may be heartwarming, cute, fuzzy 
 and tragic in some cute and fuzzy way the first time, but repeat playthroughs of the game will 
 more than likely be for the topsy-turvy platforming and not the cutscenes.
  
  Speaking of topsy-turvy, the first grand innovation found in Galaxy are the levels. The miniature 
 planetoids that you jump to and fro from are present right from the start. Some of them are large 
 enough that you won't even notice that you're on a planet until you take flight from it and others 
 are small enough merely to land on and jump off of them. It's this kind of zany creativity that 
 has been missing from videogaming. Galaxy's levels are strikingly original and have never been 
 attempted before. No two galaxies are the same, no two planets in a galaxy are the same, either 
 in gameplay or visuals, Mario Galaxy is consistently throwing you into new and exciting areas to 
 hop and bop through!
  
  Given that the Wii is extremely underpowered when compared to both the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 
 3, it's very exciting to see that Super Mario Galaxy outshines many of the games on both systems. 
 This isn't a technically proficient game like BioShock, but with such beautiful artistry throughout 
 the game it's hard not to fall in love with Galaxy. The wacky art literally helps make the game 
 as amazing as it is. The enemies are also looking better than ever. Quite frankly, there's nothing 
 stopping Super Mario Galaxy from being the best-looking Wii game both from a technical and artistic 
 standpoint.
  
  The levels, though strikingly beautiful and more original than any other levels in gaming are what 
 make the gameplay in Galaxy so fun. Technically, you're still only jumping around. In fact, Mario's 
 move set is extremely limited in Galaxy. But running around upside down, on walls, flying through 
 space and jumping in circles across entire planetoids proves that Galaxy's gravity-defying gameplay 
 is only possible due to the stunning and innovative levels found through out the game.
  
  However, despite a limited move set, Galaxy still packs loads of innovation in its simplicity. 
 For one, platforming games are generally involve collecting some object to use for some silly purpose. 
 In Galaxy you have to collect star bits. These star bits are needed in order to help create new 
 planets for Mario to explore on the course of his adventure. However, you don't have to go out 
 of your way to collect them, all you have to do is move the Wii remote around and the cursor will 
 pick them up automatically for you, leaving the fun platforming challenges for the gamer. The controls 
 for the game are streamlined and simply to use. Unlike other platformers of the past where it would 
 take 20 different button combinations to pull off some obscenely unnecessary maneuver, Galaxy's 
 move set remains the same throughout the game. What keeps the game fun isn't learning new moves, 
 but rather tackling new challenges and obstacles.
  
  Keeping in tune with the game's nods to Super Mario Bros. 3 as seen in the introduction, Galaxy 
 employs the use of different suits to help change up the gameplay as well. Many of these are merely 
 used for specific purposes, like clinging to walls, jumping really high and such, but they manage 
 to remain an absolute joy to use, and you can't help but feel all warm and fuzzy when you see Mario 
 in a bee suit or get hit with a strong sense of nostalgia when you see him as Fire Mario.
  
  Galaxy deserves a nod in its beautiful musical score as well. The music is so fun and quirky. 
 It's easily the best soundtrack Nintendo has put out. Gamers can't help but feel good and carefree 
 when chasing after rabbits. Though the game manages to dole out plenty of dramatic music when the 
 need arises. But whether you're running through a haunted galaxy with Boos chasing after you, or 
 a field of green with Piranha Plants snapping at you, Galaxy's soundtrack will put a smile on your 
 face.
  
  The game never gets dull in its execution, providing exciting thrill after thrill. However, not 
 all is right in the Mushroom Kingdom. While Super Mario Galaxy is an extremely innovative experience 
 throughout, from the very first star until the final showdown with Bowser, it just can't keep it 
 up after the finale. Collecting 100 coins should be a thing of the past, so why is it that Super 
 Mario Galaxy still employs this tactic to extend its own length? If these coin hunts were scattered 
 throughout the experience, I wouldn't have minded them as much, but the fact that they only become 
 available after the final showdown is like a slap in the face. Once you're done having fun and 
 want to go back all that awaits you are a bunch of no-fun coin hunting. For such an innovative 
 game to go and employ such a tactic is just pathetic.
  
  Ignoring the (optional) coin hunts that await you after completing the game, Super Mario Galaxy 
 is the game Wii owners have been pining for since they beat Twilight Princess. While many will 
 shrug off Galaxy as just another Mario game released by Nintendo, they're only hurting themselves. 
 Super Mario Galaxy is a testament to innovative game design, amazingly fun gameplay, and is a singular 
 achievement on par with the likes of Halo 3. However, the best thing that can be said about Super 
 Mario Galaxy is that it will make you smile from beginning to end, and that grin won't wear off 
 for a long time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ds_wiirocks
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is highly addictive. The difficulty is just right, so anyione can beat it, but it takes 
 a while. There is a 2 player mode where one person can collect star its while the othe rjust plays 
 the game, but that is completly pointless. The levels tend to be the same, like deserts, lava, 
 arctic, jungle, etc. but it makes it look like that Mario is still a classic today without a doubt. 
 Although the storyline always is the same, where you got to rescue Peach from the evil Koopa Troopa 
 Bowser, you can also defeat other villians, like Dino Pirahna and Boswer Junior. I have no mroe 
 time to write the rets of the review, but this game is sure a hit for the Wii. And is ranked top 
 5games for the wii. The top 5 in y opinion are:
  
  1) Super Mario Galaxy
  2) Super Smash Bros Brawl
  3) Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess
  4) Metroid Prime 3: Corruption
 
  5) Super Paper Mario
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suliman-Uchia
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to anticapated games for the Nintendo Wii, many of them have wanted one thing, Mario. 
 It has been nearly a year though since the Wii was launched with The Legend Of Zelda: Twilight 
 Princess as the main attraction, but many die hard fans have been anxious for a game that has delivered 
 the appeal of Super Mario 64 from Mario's hay day. Although Super Mario Sunshine was also a fun 
 game for the Nintendo Gamecube, it just didn't deliver as well as the Nintendo 64 classic had proven. 
 But, Mario has proven his strength earlier this year on the Wii with gems like Super Paper Mario 
 & Mario Party 8 which both worked well as great buys for the Nintendo system, but this is the one 
 that reaches to the stratosphere.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy for the Nintendo Wii, brings in the big guns, as Mario does whatever it takes 
 to save Princess Toadstool a. k. a. Peach from the clutches of Bowser. This time around, Mario takes 
 to the sky to help him in his quest. Along the way, Mario has to collect star bits, which can help 
 him beat enemies and bosses of all kinds, from the classics like Thwomps and goombas, to bigger 
 than life boss battles like a vulgar spider who shoots venom at you, and even a mecha robot that 
 fires bullet bills at you from all different angles.
  
  There are also a few new features here that Mario shines through as well in the game, like specialty 
 suits like the bee suit, which transforms Mario into a bumble bee, that can make mario fly through 
 the Honeycomb stage, where he can collect coins and stars from each of the levels. There is also 
 the boo suit, where Mario can actually become the ghostly menace, Boo in the haunted house level 
 to help him enter ghostly portals that Mario couldn't normally enter, but it also can make the 
 other Boo ghosts quickly fall in love with Mario in the blink of an eye. There are also some returns 
 of classic items to use as well like the Fire Flower, and a new ice flower that Mario could use 
 to freeze his foes on ice.
  
  The graphics in the game are absolutely breathtaking and appeal well to the Wii's eyes, while the 
 music is simplistic and elequent to the ears of Mario fans, especially as he surfs the galaxy. 
 The control is also very simple to manuver, and stays mainly relevant to the palms of the Wii remote 
 and nunchucks' hands. You can also use the Wii remote to help you grapple onto trees and meteors 
 that can help you launch from one platform to another, and you can also use to help you collect 
 star bits, and perform new attacks like the spin move. There is also a new co-op mode where for 
 the first time, two people can play, as you can use another player to help you collect star bits, 
 to help you along your quest, and defeat tougher foes like a giant octopus in the lava, and even 
 giant goombas that are beyond the heights of the world.
  
  All in all, what I love about Super Mario Galaxy is that it is everything Wii owners have wanted 
 in a great game, and more. It is a definite must buy for the Wii that is sure to bring a lot of 
 excitement into die hard Mario fans. This is one game that really brings out the heart at being 
 the best of what the Nintendo Wii has delivered, and that has still shown to die hard Mario fans 
 of all ages. I absolutely recommend it as a great buy on a star-spectacular scale.
  
  Graphics: A
  
  Sound: A+
  
  Control: A-
  
  Fun & Enjoyment: A
  
  Overall: A 
::::::

::::::
UserName: famlygyr0cs
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 4:20 pm PT
Review:  No one is wrong about this game. It has GREAT graphics, possibly the best on Wii, AMAZING gameplay 
 that you will never get bored of, but after saying all of this, it is NOT the best Wii game, im 
 not telling which is :P. Some stars are RIDICULOUSLY easy, like Luigi on the Roof, but some are 
 EXTREMELY hard, like the Garbage Dumps, and Luigi's Purple Coins, but overall, there is nearly nothing 
 bad about this game, I would recommend this game to ANY Wii owner. The game is everywhere, and its 
 great that its not too expensive. You REALLY should go pick it up, im telling you that you wont 
 regret it AT ALL. I hope you agree with this review.
  Uh, i have 126 characters left so DINNER DINNER DINNER DINNER DINNER DINNER DINNER DINNER DINNER 
 DINNER DINNER DINNER DINNER DINNER DINNER DINNER DINNER DINNER DINNER DINNER DINNER DINNER DINNER 
 DINNER DINNER DINNER LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Zills-
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  The pressure to make this game great was unbearable eith the Wii console selling like crack in 
 downtown Detroit. They really had to make this the console seller. And they achieved perfection. 
 The game has stunning graphics that will make you look at your Wii just to make sure its not your 
 PS3 or 360. The motion controls were not pushed onto it which makes it all the better. The new 
 features are plentyful with costumes and level design out of this world literally. The controls 
 can feel awkward because your actually running around a 3D object but not enough to be extremely 
 noticeable. This game is a work of art from the graphics to the soundtrack it won GOTY for a reason 
 and that reason is perfection. WHen I look back old and grey and think about the Wii Mario Galaxy 
 will be the in the center of my mind. P. S this review was written post Brawl... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bringndaheat08
Rating: 9
Date: May 23, 2008 10:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly amazing. Everyone that owns a Wii, the millions of people, should give Nintendo 
 credit and buy this game. This game will blow your mind, combining everything needed for a perfect 
 game. Yes, I said perfect. Super Mario Galaxy is everything that you would want in a game, and 
 calling it anything but perfect is a crime. The best gameplay, the best graphics [for the Wii] , 
 the best sound, the best.. everything.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  It is Mario, is there really anything else to say. Plays perfectly, and if there is anything to 
 brag about in this game, it is the gameplay. Everything goes perfectly, the Wii controls work great, 
 and not implanted too much, which is perfect for this type of game. You press A to jump, you wiggle 
 the Wii remote to spin/attack, and you point at the screen to throw stars and collect them. There 
 are a few camera issues, but like every 3D Mario, it doesn't bring the game down much, and in Super 
 Mario Galaxy, it rarely happens. Overall, this is Mario at his best.
  
  [] 10/10 []
  
  Graphics:
  
  This game is beautiful. You can really tell Nintendo has pushed the Wii to the 
 max, and if not than I am very surprised. Lush colors, vibrant worlds, and everything you would 
 want in a Mario game. Everything falls into place just perfectly, and is this truly an HD system 
 graphics on the Wii. This game will win the graphical awards, for the reasons that it's HD on Wii, 
 it's Nintendo's best graphics ever, and it's Wii's best graphics in a game, and will be for years 
 to come. 
  
  [] 10/10 []
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound is fantastic. I have never heard this good of music in a game, and anything that remotely 
 compares to it is the Katamari music. Each world has different music, and there are many tunes 
 that will remind you of the older games, but the new music is there the game shines. Amazing, and 
 this part of the review does not do the game justice, when you pick it up, you will know how amazing 
 the sound is. Although I cannot give this a 10, because there is no voice acting, but in a Mario 
 game, is it really needed? Well, no, but Mario didn't have to speak, and the 9.5 is from everyone 
 not speaking. Although this game doesn't need the dialog as much as The Legend of Zelda: Twilight 
 Princess did, it would have been a nice feature non-the-less.
  
  [] 9.5 []
  
  Replay Value:
  
  This game is extremely replayable. You will want to pick this up again and 
 again, and if for some reasons you don't, you are in for a heck of a ride. The main game is 12-15 
 hours to plow through, which it took me 12. You need at least 60 stars to get to the final boss, 
 which is not hard, but the 120 stars is where the game gets difficult. There are so many paths, 
 and secrets in this game, that it makes it the most difficult to beat 100% out of all the other 
 Mario titles. You also get a very fun co-op mode, where if you have a buddy to play with, can get 
 extremely fun. Basically, in the co-op mode, one person controls Mario and does the basics, and 
 the other person helps, and he/she can collect the stars, shoot them, and basically all the Wii 
 remote controls without the Nunchuck. Coming into co-op, something first in a 3D Mario, I was a 
 little skeptical, but at the end I was very happy. Oh, and did I mention you can play as another 
 character, other than Mario? I wonder who? Trust me, you will want to play as him.
  
  [] 9.5/10 []
  
  Overall:
  
  This is a masterpiece. It is a crime to call it anything lower. 
 It is not only Nintendo's best game of all time, with the best sound and graphics, but also their 
 funnest game of all time, and one of their best games of all time. The experience to be had with 
 this game is truly as great as The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time was back when it came out. 
 This game is fantastic on all of it's parts, and I sure hope Nintendo makes some more masterpieces 
 like Super Mario Galaxy is. Buy it, and than buy it again for your friends. Nope, do not let them 
 borrow it, save them the trouble because they will own it anyways.
  
  [] Overall score: 9.8 []
  
  Pros:
  - Extremely replayable
  - More than one playable character
 
  - Co-op is surprisingly fun.
  - 12-15 hour to plow though it
  - 120 stars to collect
  - Fun as heck [the funnest video game I have ever played]
  - Best graphics/sound ever on a Nintendo 
 console
  - Send scores over WiiConnect24
  - Uses Wii's controls just right, and the gameplay is perfect
  
  Cons:
  - Rare camera issues
 
  - Only needs 60 stars to meet the final boss
  - Story mode ended? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bandgeek55
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is great fun. I played the first one for the N64 and I loved it. Then Mario Sunshine 
 came out. It wasn't very good. I thought Mario was going downhill, but then Mario Galaxy came out! 
 It was very fun. I wish that it was a bit longer, but it still was a very good game. Probably one 
 of the best in the series. If you're not a fan of Mario, you should still try out this game. My 
 parents even liked it. My little sisters liked it too and my friends like it also. It's a fairly 
 awesome game that's worth your time and your money. I would play it again. I really think that 
 this game will be a classic. What's not to love about Mario, Princess Peach, and of course, Bowser. 
 Bowser Jr. is also in this one. This time, he didn't ruin the game. He didn't replace Bowser like 
 Sunshine did. Bowser is the perfect villain (in my opinion) . Super Mario Galaxy is a must have 
 for the Wii! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvilBaga
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun fun fun!
  
  It reminds me a lot of Super Mario on the N64. Difference being there are planets, not pictures 
 or whatever was there in N64
  
  Galaxy has really good graphics. Its strongest point. The Wii, after all is the weakest of the 
 "Seventh Generation" Consoles, a souped up GameCube really, though few admit it. So watching the 
 stunning visuals really warms the heart. 
  
  Its weakest point I suppose is the game is simply go from point A to point B and then point C with 
 very little variety gameplay wise. The developers should have shook it up a bit more. Ah well, 
 thats how it goes with big well known titles eh?
  
  Want to know something secret? Look at the Super Mario Galaxy Poster/box-art closely. Read ONLY 
 the letters with a small shiny star on them. Some programmer in Japan or Marketing guy in the USA 
 is have a quiet chuckle at all of us ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaggisGhillie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is one of the best games I've ever played. It is extremely enjoyable from beginning 
 to end. The levels are challenging, and some are somewhat frustrating, but it is never so frustrating 
 you want to smash the TV in (see my review of Castlevania for the PSP :-) 
  
  One of the best aspects of the game is the completely different galaxies that you must progress 
 through. Every one is different in some unique and interesting ways. Some allow Mario to find and 
 use some interesting power-ups: fire, ice, spring, and bee. So the game is more than just simply 
 running around avoiding baddies.
  
  SMG makes good use of the Wii remote, allowing Mario to spin to accomplish various maneuvers.
 
  
  My only complaint (if I had to give one) , is that the galaxies reachable from the engine room (the 
 last set of galaxies you can plan) are too difficult. Some require replay after replay until you 
 memorize the level -- something that is thankfully absent from the rest of the game. That said, 
 I didn't actually need to get through these galaxies to finish the game. I had found some secret 
 stars earlier and so I beat Bowser before needing to complete these galaxies. 
  
  All in all, a super enjoyable game. I highly recommend it to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seanathome
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is, quite frankly, and awesome game! When I first played the games, my mouth 
 just couldn't shut because I was literally awed by the solid graphics. I mean, compared to other 
 "non-Nintendo" games I own (such as Harry Potter, Prince of Persia) , the graphics are FAR BEYOND 
 (pun intended) the competition.
  
  The gameplay is similar to Super Mario 64, however, instead of going into different paintings, 
 you go into planets (which are inside domes) . I'm quite happy that they kept flying Mario in this 
 game because the Wii-motes are PERFECT for flying, if I do say so myself. ;) The actual games inside 
 the planets are VERY addicting. I mean, you could probably see me going back into a specific planet 
 just to play a game I already won. How crazy is that?!
  
  The music brings back memories of older Mario games, which for me is AWESOME. It's like I'm reliving 
 my childhood memories. ;) But don't let that steer you away from the game if you're not a "die-hard" 
 Mario fan. There's new music mixed into the entire game as well. :D
  
  Overall, if you LOVE Mario games, buy it. You'll definitely be glad you did! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin6427
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  This game is great it is the best wii game yet!!!! their are many good things about this game one 
 good thing is gameplay last a long time and never gets boring. one more good thing is that the graphics 
 are great and it looks like the charaters are in the galaxy. one more good thing is their is music 
 from past Mario games. One more thing is it is easy to control you don't have to try if all your 
 might to control the Mario or Luigi. one last thing is that it is worth every pennie I paid 50$ 
 and I think it was wroth it. This game is
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreySeven
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  I want to make it clear that I still believe that Mario RPG is the best Mario game to date, and 
 the genre that RPG should be revisited. 'Nuff said.
  
  Mario Galaxy is amazing. From the start, and I mean form the time I opened the game book, I got 
 really excited. There are all sorts of new powers and moves for Mario, some very reminiscent of 
 Mario 64. I didn't dive into the game and spank it, so to speak, I took my time with it. I read 
 a lot of reviews that it could be beaten in about 13 hours time, and that the collection of all 
 the stars wasn't entirely necessary. Well, I made it necessary damn it, and I'm probably 40 hours 
 at this point having beaten the game twice with Mario and all the stars. SPOILER -------------- 
 I'm not playing as Luigi and doing all the same, though the game is slowing down a bit as the wonder 
 dissipates. ----------END
  
  I'm glad I got a Wii when I had the chance to because of this game... and Zelda. But anyway, Mario 
 Galaxy uses all of the Wii's wiimote-unique functions during gameplay letting you get involved 
 with the jumping, spinning, rolling, balancing, surfing, and swimming. Very cool. These controls, 
 however, can be VERY frustrating at times. Especially -SPOLER -------------------- with Luigi as 
 he spazes out with running around and not being able to stop, though his jumping is way better -------------------END. 
 I can see how this would frustrate some people to dimiss this game from any kind of prestige. Don't 
 let it get to you, getting used to the controls takes time with the Wii, no matter what game it 
 is. Stick with it and it becomes second nature. 
  
  I also enjoy the new edge to the classic spin of Wii games. Other systems push the envelope of 
 graphics and gameplay with new and unknown titles that look sweet, but have no content. So you 
 end up playing a very pretty game but feel kinda empty about it, like having a one night stand 
 with a hot but unintelligent chick. --Yeah you used her for her looks, but now you just want to 
 kick her the hell out. Wii pushes the tried but true names of the game universes into the cutting 
 edge interaction of the Wii, giving already established names a new pair of shoes, so to speak. 
 This is a winning formula, IMO. 
  
  Each universe in Mario Galaxy, and even each little planetoid, has unique and fun challenges. Though 
 most of these worlds can be completed in a matter of 20minutes a piece, you can spend an eternity 
 on just one because of the gaddamn pits of goo or endless voids. For example, I spent 2 hours on 
 the freakin' Luigi board in the toy galaxy collecting purple coins because its timed and that goo 
 is everywhere!!!!! But usually 20 minutes or way less...
  
  The game also throws you a curve ball every now and then with a challenge comet. These can either 
 speed up enemies, begin races with your shadowy twin, limit your life, or make you finish the galaxy 
 naked... I lied about that last one. Purple coin collecting comet is one though. 
  
  There are far more stars to collect than you need, and after completing a few of the crazy rooms 
 you transport from you can unlock a ton of stuff before even starting a new room. That didn't make 
 any sense, I know, but you'll understand when you play the game. 
  
  The graphics are the best Wii has to offer thus far. I play on a Samsung LCD 720p TV, so I notice 
 the imperfections pretty often. One of my biggest complaints about he Wii is that its resolution 
 only goes as high as 480p. Still, it looks good enough and the gameplay outweighs the graphics 
 by a lot. The artistic style is awesome, however, and there's a ton of little enemies from the 
 old days and recent days that make great appeal and nostalgia. 
  
  There is no story line to this game. Don't let anyone fool you, the whole thing with the stars 
 and giving birth to galaxies... it's not a story. You have to save Princess Peach. That's about 
 it. The stars are just what get you there, so don't look for too much depth in that area. But who 
 cares? I don't remember the original Super Mario Bros having too much depth either. In that case, 
 this game is deeper than the original Nintendo game... like in comparison of your swimming pool 
 to the Atlantic. 
  
  This is worth buying and playing. Mario Galaxy is the best game available for the Wii until Mario 
 Kart and and Smash Brothers Brawl get on the scene. If you're a Mario fan and loved Mario 64, you'll 
 love this... and the sequel which will be even better..................... speculation.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walladude2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Take my word for it: Super Mario Galaxy is a necessity for anyone who owns a Wii. It is definitely 
 the best game out there for the system. The stunning graphics are first-rate, even on the Wii, 
 and can compete with some Xbox 360 games out there. The controls are excellent, and while they 
 do include motion sensing, it doesn't go overboard with it. The environments are huge, with various 
 galaxies and planets that cover essentially anything on Earth, from a kitchen to a haunted mansion. 
 The game is so deep that to actually complete the whole game would take about 60 hours. Although 
 the bosses are somewhat easy and the gravity of the planets at the beginning could annoy you, you 
 get used to it. Overall, Super Mario Galaxy is a must-have for any Wii owner. If you don't believe 
 me, look at all the awards that this masterpiece has won. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiplay1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo's new Super Mario Galaxy game is the top of it's class and better than ever. With over 
 the line graphics and terrific gameplay along with sharp controls and great designs, this is a 
 mark in Nintendo history.
  
  You start out as Mario and of course at the begining, you see a scene where Bowser, of course, 
 steals PP (Princess peach!) . Of course, you've got to save the princess. But you where on the castle 
 when it was lifted into space, so this dude sends you flying out of the castle.
  
  So you wind up in the middle of nowhere, so what happends next? Sorry, no spoilers. Anyways, the 
 gameplay is very sharp as are the graphics and design. They just went completly crazy with the 
 space design and got this. What's also remarkable are the level designs. These are the craziest, 
 weirdest designs in any game we've seen, but that's not a bad thing. It is just so amazing. You 
 go up, down, all around. And this is without a doubt, the best looking Wii game.
  
  So Super Mario Galaxy marks a great mark in the history of gaming, especially for both the Wii 
 and Nintendo. Some of these levels are easy, but at the same time, lots of fun. You'll probably 
 want to go back and do the galaxy again either just to collect hidden stars or star bits, or just 
 for plain old fun.
  
  This isn't a game or action game where you kill things to get through, but it is simply a game 
 for everyone that opens tons of fun to friends and familys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altiar25
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 6, 2008 5:55 am PT
Review:  Ok the first side is my opion. I didnt like this game much. I never really been into Mario but 
 gave this one a go. It was a good lenth, not to short, not to long. My personal score is 7.5 as 
 i didnt get much enjoyment from this game and after a while i got bored of the levels, the story 
 and the whole thing became a chore. 
  
  My second side is a nicer side. Keeping in mind the graphics are wonderful and The thought which 
 must of gone into making those worlds increase's the score. It works well with the Wii and a great 
 thing about the game is that u can jump off the edge and just fly under the world. The score now 
 is 9.0
  
  So thats my 2 sides. My personal and my profesional. 
  
  Also dont bother getting it for because it says its 2 player because all the second player does 
 is grab the star bits. 2 play is more for the little kid helping his dad or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alaarajab
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  The first 'true' Super Mario title on Wii, and the first Super Mario platformer on a Nintendo home 
 console since the lacklustre Super Mario Sunshine on GameCube in 2002 (though some would argue 
 that Super Paper Mario fitted the bill very well earlier in 2007) , Super Mario Galaxy finally lands 
 in Europe with a fanfare of advertisements and rousing success in both Japan and the United States. 
 It's been a long time since Nintendo heralded the dawn of a new age with Mario 64 back in 1996, 
 with the pint-sized one putting his fingers in so many pies since then that it looked like brand 
 Mario was irreversibly watered down only a couple of years ago.
  
  But a lot can change, and since then Nintendo has undergone something of a renaissance, first with 
 Nintendo DS and then with Wii, once again returning the Kyoto company back into the industry's 
 stratosphere. The Big N however always needed a positive platforming turn from its mascot however, 
 something that Miyamoto and his team have been working very hard in the last couple of years. A 
 year after Wii launched, the studio's output, Super Mario Galaxy, has always promised to deliver 
 on fan expectations and innovations since it was first unveiled at E3 2006 - and it doesn't take 
 much time to realise that they've done that on both fronts.
  
  But our princess is in another castle
  
  Right from the outset Nintendo ensures that fans of 
 the twenty two year old Super Mario franchise will find themselves on largely familiar ground. 
 After receiving an invitation from Princess Peach to attend the Star Festival, a centennial event 
 where the Toads of the Mushroom Kingdom gather together falling stars to form 'Power Stars', Mario 
 finds himself catapulted into deepest darkest space, and the Princess kidnapped by Bowser. But 
 all is not lost, as Mario finds himself in the company of 'star children' called Lumas and an enigmatic 
 woman called Rosalina, who travel the universe on their 'Comet Observatory'. Powered by a bunch 
 of 'Grand Stars', now stolen by Bowser and the source of his newfound intergalactic ambitions, 
 Mario is tasked with travelling the known galaxies, tracking down enough Power Stars to go deeper 
 into space, and recover the Grand Stars from Bowser and his offspring... and rescue Peach in the 
 process, of course.
  
  Each of the Grand Stars power up the Observatory in stages, unlocking new sections such as the 
 spaceship's Bedroom and Kitchen - allowing Mario to fly off into some of the strangest looking 
 galaxies and planets devised in video gaming. Every galaxy is filled with between one and six levels, 
 depending on whether Luigi has discovered the secret whereabouts of Power Star on an already visited 
 area of the galaxy, or if a comet is in the vicinity - more on those shortly. But if you thought 
 the change of perspective from 2D to 3D in Super Paper Mario was original and refreshing, just 
 wait until you get your mitts on Super Mario Galaxy. Poor level design has rarely been an accusation 
 that could be thrown any Super Mario title, and Galaxy is no different, offering an astounding 
 variety and mix of designs. Though themed with the sort of environments long since associated with 
 the Super Mario franchise, from quicksand infested deserts (with pyramids to boot) to haunted houses 
 and grassy piranha plant strewn plains, Galaxy's creativity does go beyond mere replication. Inspired 
 by the 'Mario 128' experiment, Miyamoto-san melds low gravity with spherical planetoids to produce 
 micro circumnavigation that would make Phileas Fogg envious. Mario leaps between them with the 
 help of Star Slings and Pull Stars, which more often than not are broken into five fragments and 
 have to be found before resorting to their true helpful states. Not only a puzzle dynamic, using 
 the reformed stars also help to create an epic feel to Galaxy in a way that other recent platformers, 
 such as the recent PS3 outing of Ratchet & Clank, fail to produce. Playing with gravity is taken 
 beyond just moving between neighbouring bits of floating rock however; Super Mario Galaxy also 
 features Gravity Arrows that change the direction of gravity within single levels. With all these 
 mechanics working individually or in various combinations, Super Mario Galaxy is real head spinner, 
 with tumbling walls and puzzles that can take a minute or two to figure out - though they never 
 become frustrating or hold up the pack adventure built into every imprint of the game disk.
  
  Bottom bouncing of course makes a return to Galaxy, but Mario is also aided this time around 
 with Star Bits, star dust, which can be used as a projectile to daze enemies. Quite handily, they're 
 also loved as treats by the Lumas, especially the hungry ones, which turn into new galaxies to 
 explore when they've had their fill. It's also quite handy that an extra life is added for every 
 50 collected, in near age-old tradition for the franchise. Thanks to a helping Luma, Mario can 
 also daze enemies with a spin attack activated by a quick flick of the Wii-remote (or nunchuk if 
 you prefer) , quickly followed up by a quick punch to finish them off. The spin can also be used 
 in conjunction with jumps to cover higher or longer distances, or used to loosen or tighten screws 
 in the game's endlessly brilliant sequence of puzzles. Not to be outdone by the new features, Galaxy 
 also includes a fresh selection of superpowers for the plumber to contend with, including Ice Mario, 
 Spring Mario, and the always-reliable "old as Super Mario himself power" (though now temporary) 
 Fire Mario. The game also sees the introduction of Bee Mario, following the tradition that has 
 already seen the plumber turn into a Frog and Raccoon, enabling players to clamber up vertical 
 walls of honeycomb and endowing Mario with the ability to fly for a short time. None of the powers 
 are put to waste at any point of the game however, with each used during the appropriately designed 
 levels, whether that's getting to otherwise unreachable heights as Spring Mario, or skating across 
 cold water in an Iceman style as Ice Mario.
  
  Adding a further sliver of variety to the Galaxy experience, as if there was any grain of doubt 
 that the gameplay would sink into a mire of repetition, is the use of comets that affect galaxies 
 as they pass through their orbit. These 'Prankster Comets' affect the galaxies in a number of ways, 
 from the Speedy Comets that limited the amount of time Mario has to find the Power Star (in good 
 ol' Super Mario fashion) to Cosmic Comets (where Mario has to race against a 'cosmic' version of 
 himself) , and Daredevil Comets (which reduces Mario to a single segment of life) . Another way of 
 collecting the number of Power Stars necessary to travelling to the centre of the universe and 
 rescuing Princess Peach, the comets also act as Galaxy's own interpretation of the Star Roads, 
 used in past instalments of the franchise. Often more challenging that a lot of the main missions, 
 the Comets throw in an extra layer of difficulty for players who require the chance to lose a few 
 lives in the process of completing the game (or collecting all 120 Power Stars) .
  
  A Super Mario game of Galactic Proportions
  
  Following in the footsteps of Metroid Prime 3: 
 Corruption, the control system developed for Galaxy manages to weave both a sense of the familiar 
 and the new into a satisfyingly intuitive experience. Deft flicks of the Wii-remote are used throughout 
 the game to activate Mario's spin attacks, together with the pointer to collect Star Bits, with 
 the accelerometers also used to balance on top of balls, spin up Sproutle vines to access higher 
 areas, and direct the Ray during Ray Surfing races. Both Corruption and Galaxy act as guiding lights 
 for third-party developers to follow, and show that Nintendo may just be thinking about their traditional 
 fan base more, after all.
  
  Beyond the mechanics of the puzzles and a typical plot that finally takes Mario to one of the few 
 environments left for him to encounter, Galaxy also sets a benchmark for Wii visuals. Fluid and 
 full of little details including the glow of starlight shining off the plumber when he's deep into 
 a space walk and use of lens flares in a way that would make a NASA home movie jealous, Super Mario 
 Galaxy just goes to show that slick presentation doesn't have to rely on parallel processors or 
 trillions of floating point calculations per second to deliver a jaw-dropping experience.
  
  Nintendo has evidently pushed a lot into ensuring that the production values of Super Mario 
 Galaxy are the highest ever for any of their platforms, and that's going beyond the original gameplay 
 and best looking visuals on Wii. For the first time ever, a 50-piece orchestra has been assembled 
 to record the score, offering not only new versions of some classic Mario tunes, but creating a 
 warmth, atmosphere, and a sense of adventure that won't fail to astound. The synth work of the 
 past has been left firmly in the dark, with Galaxy's score at times generating the sort of electricity 
 that could be used to power a small town. In addition to all that, extra details like synching 
 up musical sound effects to the background score - for instance when Mario uses the Star Sling 
 to fly to other planets in a galaxy - create a extra depth to the audio that fits so well it's 
 difficult to detect unless you listen for it.
  
  For all the superlatives, the praise, and the near worship levels of commendation, Super Mario 
 Galaxy does have the tiniest speck of imperfection. The inclusion of co-operative play is perhaps 
 the weakest element in the whole game, with the second player relegated to collecting Star Bits 
 and helping Mario to jump higher. That said, Nintendo deftly avoids too much of a ear-bashing by 
 describing Super Mario Galaxy as 'primarily a solo player game' within the pages of the game's 
 manual. What the co-op does highlight however is just how much a 'Super Mario Bros' and not just 
 a 'Super Mario' title would be welcomed by the fan base - let's just hope that is what Miyamoto 
 will have up his sleeve next time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lectro_007
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  this game is totally awesome! theres so much to do, and you have to play the game fully twice to 
 officially complete it! the graphics are some of the best i've seen on the wii, and near the end, 
 you get to do the superman thing.... flying. for about a minute or 2 in the air and anywhere, and 
 u can just activate it again so u can fly basiclly indefinately.... totally awesome. For some bad 
 points u will get frustrated with it sometimes when mario or luigi doesn't respond right to the 
 controls and then u get killed.... but its still an awesome game! bowser is the bad guy, and he's 
 kidnapped princess peach for her to witness the creation of his inter-galactic empire..... all tht 
 jazz. so u have to collect enough stars to power up the big space staion u live on to fly to the 
 centre of the universe to save princess peach and beat bowser! of course, luigi is there to help 
 out, bless him...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogeta_gogeta2
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  super mario galaxy I would say is one of the best in the mario set. I was pleasantly surprised 
 when I saw the level design. It is really entertaining as it could take around 25 hours to beat. 
 Any mario fan or non mario fan would like this game. This wii game has one of the best graphics 
 I have seen on the wii. The game is pure fun as you could just walk of the edge of a planet or 
 turn into fire, ice, bee, spring and boo mario. I would suggest this game to any gamer. The gameplay 
 is truly fantastic and the use of the wii remote is just great. The only way to really get to know 
 how this game plays is by renting or buying it. Watching the video will help but not as much as 
 playing it. This game has it all. There is nothing more to really say about it. Happy Gaming 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zikimaru88
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 3, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  The game offers something way different to the mario franchise, but is that necessarily a good 
 thing? Instead of jumping on goombas head youll be in space pitted against horrible enemies and 
 amazing boss battles. but sometimes the game gets confusing as you define gravity. its kinda cool 
 at first, but gets old. the story is bowser invading the castle and (of course) kidnapping peach. 
 bowser flies up into space with mario chasing along after him. i gotta say, there is pretty cool 
 feature, you can spin your wii remote in a circle to make mario spin. i have only completed about 
 half of the game (it gets pretty boring) but for every galaxy you beat you get a master star of 
 something to power up more of the base (i dont remember what its called) . but the base thingy actually 
 is pretty fun to explore, but i think this game is too overrated, (but still kinda fun) . the game 
 also has excellent sound and stunning graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerx111
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Space is big. Really big. And Super Mario Galaxy is one of those games that really tries hard to 
 give you an idea of just how big it is. It succeeds at that.
  
  The game itself is, to put it quite simply, massive. Unfortunately, while this gives it great potential, 
 it seems Nintendo failed to see how much could be done with it. Thus, we have Super Mario Galaxy, 
 a huge, expansive, and incredibly linear platformer that really isn't as good as the critics would 
 have you believe. We'll start with the positives:
  
  One of Galaxy's strong points is its graphics. It makes great use of the Wii's limited hardware 
 capabilities- all the characters, levels, and what-not are rendered beautifully, with considerable 
 detail and vibrant colour. It's definitely one of the best looking games on the Wii.
  
  The music, also, is great. All the old songs are superbly remixed, and the new ones sound excellent.
 
  
  However, the game's one big letdown comes in the form of its simplicity. As was stated earlier, 
 for such expansive play areas, it's a real shame they're so linear. The missions are incredibly 
 basic- it's just a case of running along a predefined course, and then solving a puzzle or beating 
 a boss to get a star. The bosses, also, are fairly simple and easy to defeat. The only one I really 
 had much fun fighting was Bouldergeist, a nice, long, tricky to beat boss which actually required 
 considerable skill to finish off. If only they were all more like him.
  
  Also, for all the game's talk of wonderful power-ups, you'll find as you progress through the game 
 that while there are a great variety of them, they're hardly ever used, and that they get really 
 boring after a while.
  
  Essentially, Super Mario Galaxy is a decent game, a good addition to the Mario series, and fun 
 for a while. But, to be honest, it could have been a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightbarier
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot hit right on with their review and for those that disagree Mario Galaxy is game of the 
 year. It not suprising that you will hear people say cd4 is better or other games but it most likely 
 that they never played the game and are pc owners. If you are this person you are crazy and need 
 to hit your self for jumping to conclusions before even playing. A little piece of advice just 
 because it Mario don't let it push you away from the game you will be sadly disapointed as you 
 wonder why no good game has come out for a while if will guess what it has and it Mario this game 
 is inatvative keeps you supprised and is just plan fun. You won't find any glitches or problems 
 you never realy feel like your always alone since you even have little mushroom guys who sometimes 
 show up with you and help you with your quest to find all the stars the camera is perfect all wii 
 games that are open should have this camera sytem unless you perposly go looking around for problems 
 with there is one found by x-play but it so hard to get and it only happens for a second you can 
 play through the game 100 times and never have this problem sure it not full of blood and gore 
 but it does justice to they system and makes you feel like a bad ass. The gravity system is top 
 notch and makes you explore and try diffrent ways of doing things and getting past levels. The 
 game will start out easy but get way tougher as you play and will end in it being cruely tough 
 on your search for 120 stars this game realy deserves game of the year although we had some great 
 inative games and taking everything in for thought I have to give the award for game of the year 
 to Mario Galaxy sure the graphics are not in Hd but their the best we seen on the wii not to mention 
 Mario game graphics have always been the standard so companys will know have to up thier game sure 
 it not perfect but dang is it close so we have to give it a 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow_Blade1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 10:59 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is an extraordinary game. The graphics are amazingly accurate and the game-play 
 is interesting and fun. The game starts out with Mario getting a letter from Princess Peach telling 
 you to go to the Castle so she can give Mario a present. While Mario is running through the town's 
 festival of the Stars, Bowser shows up and captures Princess Peach. Basically Bowser is up to his 
 old tricks but this time with a new twist, Bowser steals the power of the Grand Stars to create 
 his very own planet. WOW! Anyway that has the story starts. This game's gravity is very interesting 
 because you'll probably be up-side down half the time you play this game. It is a very fun and 
 deep story and every step you get further towards accomplishing the game, another story, involving 
 the Queen of the Stars, is continued as well to explain how and why the stars came to be as powerful 
 as can be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NFS102
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  Levels are fantastically designed  The graphics look amazing  The controls work great.
  
 
  The Bad:
  Some characters do not feel like Mario characters  Underwater swimming doesn't work well  Levels 
 loose that "awesome" feeling once you get into the game.
  
  
  
  
  Mario is back in his next big adventure. This time he makes his first appearance on Nintendo's 
 newest console; the Wii. It (the game) was a huge hit with critics, winning numerous awards including 
 Gamespot and IGN's "Game of the Year" award. Galaxy has improved upon its procedure Super Mario 
 Sunshine, but I believe it has a few flaws that keep it from being the GOTY in my book. 
  
  Super Mario Galaxy's story revolves around saving Princess Peach (that's a shocker) . To save her, 
 our favorite plumber Mario has to defeat Bowser and become a hero (another surprise!) . But he can't 
 do it alone. He will need the help of a new human character named Rosalina. Rosalina has a ship 
 powerful enough to travel out to Bowser, but it doesn't have enough fuel to do so. Mario must collect 
 enough "Power Stars" to power the ship and save Peach. These stars are found throughout galaxies 
 (or stages) . The downside to the story is that some new characters just don't have that "Mario" 
 theme to them. Some characters don't fit into the levels to well either, but this doesn't effect 
 the game too much. The story of the game is just "meh" and it only takes about 10-15 hours to beat, 
 but luckily for fans of Mario, there's more to do that could take you a good 50 hours to complete.
 
  
  The games controls for the most part, work really well. You can move Mario with the analog stick 
 and press A to make him jump. The only time you use motion controls is to do your basic attack 
 by twisting the Wii-mote, or collecting these items called star bits by touching them with your 
 pointer. In my experience of the game, the only time I had trouble with the controls was UNDERWATER 
 SWIMMING! You remember it from previous Mario games; if you didn't then I'll tell you it sucks. 
 I could not figure out how to go in the water at first because when he jumped in he would stay 
 floating. It can be quite irritating but luckily there aren't many stages where you have to swim.
 
  
  Beyond story and controls, there are the graphics. The visuals of the game look absolutely beautiful. 
 From the characters to the levels themselves, the Wii's graphics have been pushed to its capacity. 
 The graphics actually do help the games appeal more than you think. I value visuals very highly 
 in what I like in a game and these graphics actually make me want to look at them. The graphics 
 are a huge step above anything that has been previously released on a Nintendo console and if you 
 don't believe me than go rent the game.
  
  Another thing do be excited about is the level design. The first time you see the levels you instantly 
 think "wow, this is cool". The levels are way different from anything ever seen before, mostly 
 because of the use of gravity being a factor. But the levels do start to lose their shine. About 
 have way into the game the level designs just stopped appealing to me. Its not that they are repetitive, 
 its just that they don't bring enough to the table to make you want to continue playing.
  
  The conclusion of the game is that it looks beautiful and plays almost as good, but loses its appeal 
 after you have collected 40 or so stars. Super Mario Galaxy is a game any Mario fan should get, 
 and probably one any Wii owner should try. The game will stay in my collection, but will start 
 to gather dust since it doesn't have the appeal to make me want to play it. I am satisfied with 
 the game because it did improve since Super Mario Sunshine, but it will never be better than its 
 older brother Super Mario 64. 
  
  
  Overall, Super Mario Galaxy gets an 8 out of 10.
  
  
  -NFS102
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoshiRules123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 7:55 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy... I bought this game the first day it came to stores! This game is the perfect 
 sequel to 64 and Sunshine. This game is so awsome, once you beat it, you HAVEN'T BEATEN IT!!! Once 
 you get 120 stars and beat the game, you can do the same thing as the man in green, Luigi! Once 
 you beat that, you need 1 more star to go! Theres 121 stars in the game, not 120. Once you get 
 120 stars as Luigi and beat the game, go back and go to the trial galaxies (where the green Lumas 
 are) and you'll find ANOTHER green Luma! Talk to him, and you can go back to the castle courtyard 
 for a purple coin level. All the purple coins take you to the castle door, and you get the 121st 
 star and a letter on your Wii message board. Do the same thing as Luigi, and you get another 121st 
 star, another letter on your message board, and you get to see your death count! Boy, this game 
 is the best, with perfect graphics, too! Hope you liked this game more than I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin3085
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  INTRO - This is the Mario game every Wii owner is pining for. This is a true sequel to Super Mario 
 64, unlike Sunshine which was just good, this game is outstanding. It has exactly what made Super 
 Mario 64 great, but improves everything from control to soundtrack to gameplay. The storyline is 
 the same as usual. Peach gets kidnapped and has to be rescued by Mario, yet again. Only this time, 
 your in space. Mario soon meets a race called Luma and a girl named Rosilina after being blasted 
 from the Mushroom Kingdom's celebration. After the whole intro part of the game, you will be on 
 a giant starship platform thing. This acts like a hub similar to the castle in Super Mario 64. 
 Now let's get started off with the gameplay!
  
  GAMEPLAY: The first thing you notice is the whole gravity thing as you walk around planets. This 
 may feel weird at first, but you will get used to it. There are many types of gameplay mechanics 
 in the game. One is the whole use of the small blue stars; they act as gravitational forces that 
 pull towards them. This will be needed to be used for puzzles, races, and more. Another one of 
 the my favorite mechanics, are the gravity arrows the pull you down or up into which way you stand. 
 This will appear in some levels and puts you in a sort of 2-D style view. A throwback to the old 
 days of Mario. The rest of the major gameplay elements involve starbits, new power-ups, underwater, 
 new moves and secrets. Starbits are small bits of stars (obviously) that act as ammo to stun weak 
 enemies, and as food for hungry Lumas that will transform into another planet or galaxy if you 
 feed them enough. New power-ups include bee Mario ( allows you to hover) , a health boost, ice Mario 
 (make water you step on turn into ice, boo Mario (allows you to hover and become invisible, fire 
 Mario (can use fire balls) , and spring Mario (can jump far) . When you are underwater, you go slower 
 and swim. It's really what you would think being underwater would be like. I think it make the 
 gameplay harder though. New moves include super ground pound, long jump, and skiing. Major secrets 
 of the game include, unlocking Luigi, super jumping, and super ground pounding. There will be 120 
 stars in the game to collect and there will be multiple types of stars in the game, form cosmic 
 to daredevil. Every type of special star (like cosmic) has an extra rule to the level from finding 
 secretly, finding Luigi, finishing the level without getting hit, finishing the level in a time 
 limit, and more. There is also a level almost impossible to beat, Luigi's Purple Coins, which is 
 only meant for experts. I would say it is the hardest level in the game. Another thing you can 
 do is play co-op with someone else. The second player only acts as a cursor so the co-op mode is 
 weak. The best part of the game is how each galaxy is so vast and has great layout. It's still 
 fun to play them again and just about the time you get bored... a new galaxy appears! The amount 
 of stars that unlock a new galaxy is large enough for you to really get the most enjoyment out 
 of other galaxies, but also small enough that you don't have to be angrily to to get that one star 
 you need for the next galaxy. The whole layout of the game is great!
  
  
  Graphics: The graphics are great. Their is not a better looking game on the Wii. The colorful art 
 design and vibrant colors really add to the mood of Galaxy. Everything is well detailed and beautiful. 
 The frame rate is not that high but doesn't effect the graphics very much. The camera is almost 
 always great, you can move it left, right, and in a first person view, but it won't always give 
 you the best view.
  
  Sound: Not much to say here. The music really helps set the mood and tune of the game. The sound 
 effects are crisp and clear. The music id outstanding.
  
  Value: With over 40 galaxies, 120 stars, the ability to unlock and play as Luigi, 2 player co-op 
 mode and the ability to send accomplishments to friends over Wiiconnect24, it has a LOT of value. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aumelen818
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 29, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  It has been ages since I have owned a video game console. I've been an avid PC gamer for some years 
 now. But there has always been something about the Nintendo Wii that has gotten my attention. After 
 many months not being able to find a Wii in stock I finally got one. 
  
  The first game I purchased with the console was Super Mario Galaxies. Back in the days of the old 
 NES, I was always fond of the Mario series. And when I saw a demo of this being played at my local 
 GameSpot, I thought it would be a nice introduction to the Wii to myself and my girlfriend. 
  
  First, I must say that I am usually a graphics junkie. For me, game play is first, But I eye 
 candy is a close second, with audio coming right after. I was very reluctant to purchase a Wii 
 due to this fact as I usually like the cutting edge stuff. But wow, was I glad I purchased this 
 game when I got my Wii. So the graphics are nothing jaw-dropping about, nor is the audio. Don't 
 get me wrong; the graphics are not trash but they certainly are not next generation.
  
  Mario must travel to distant galaxies in search of stars to power a spacecraft. Each galaxy has 
 a different theme to them. One might be a water-like galaxy, another might be one with moving floors. 
 Each galaxy will have one or more stars to be discovered. Each time you complete a galaxy you unlock 
 the ability to locate the other star. You can complete any unlocked galaxy in any order, and you 
 may go back to any area you have completed anytime. Each galaxy is like a puzzle. You will need 
 to discover how to defeat foes, and how to progress through the galaxy utilizing what is around.
 
  
  What really makes this game stand out is the innovation behind it. The game makes well use of the 
 unique controllers. You'll be shaking it, waving it, twisting it. It's fun and unique. Combine 
 the use of the controllers with the puzzles of the galaxies you will have a great time playing. 
 It's hard for me to put down the controller.
  
  I have yet to complete this game. And from what I can see, I have a long time to go. And I'm sure 
 there are numerous hidden things to be discovered.
  
  In all, this is a great game and I highly recommend this to be one of your first purchases with 
 the Wii as it will give you what it has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vikthorious
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 29, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  Mario Galaxy, the famous Mario Galaxy. Yet is a great game, but theres something wrogn with it, 
 i can feel it, and dont fool yourselfes, but i know you feel it to.
  
  Some say its the best mario adventure since mario 64, i totaly disagree with that, still, Mario 
 Galaxy its a great game, the gameplay is just awesome, the graphics are the best the wii can show 
 and you got tons of fun. BUT, (theres always a but, do not ever forget that) this game is just 
 completely easy, and when its easy, is small, and when it is small, well the fun ends really quick, 
 and you guys know that sucks.
  
  i disagree with the statement that its better than mario 64 beacause, mario 64 had (in my observation) 
 almost the same controls of mario galaxy and mario 64 was more fun than mario galaxy, beacause 
 the gameplay its the same, but the nitendo 64 adventure of mario was longer, and had more challenge 
 than the latest mario game.
  
  Yet Mario Galaxy is a great game, it is not better than mario 64, and i know many people is agreed 
 with me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokerules123
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  I got this game as a present as well as a Wii for crimbo, & it is beautiful.
  After the rather disapointing Super Mario Sunshine, this game could take the crown of all 3 Mario 
 3D games (Super Mario 64, Super Mario Sunshine & this game) . Basically, the story is that every 
 100 years, a star show happens, so Princess Peach invites Mario to her castle (like she did in SM64 
 & SMS) . However, Bowser ruins it & steals the princess, & she has to save her (like he did in SM64 
 & SMS) . But, this OTHER princess call Princess Rosalina shows up & he has to save star sprites (like 
 he did in SM64 & SMS) . Like in SM64 & SMS, there are 120 star sprites (not counting the final 121st 
 star) . You go through different galaxies to get star sprites until you have enough to defeat Bowser. 
 However, it can be very challenging. The game has everything a Mario fan needs. Good controls, 
 good camera, good graphics, good music & much more. This game won't disapoint Mario fans.
  People who think this game sucks is a communist & has either no life or no soul
  
  Good:
 
  EVERYTHING!
  Very easily, yet very challenging
  Bad:
  Less story 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt12695741
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 11:53 pm PT
Review:  When Super Mario Galaxy was announced, I was very excited. Personally, I don't think this game 
 is as good as the previous 3d Mario adventures. The reason I say this is because the game play 
 is very linear. Super Mario Galaxy is still a very good game, though.
  
  This games graphics are great. They are very detailed and clear. All of the 3D models in the game 
 are high in polygons and the game has good FX all-round. 
  
  The music is different this time, with a more dramatic sound, because Mario is in outer space, 
 but the music always fits the theme of the levels well. Super Mario Galaxy is the first Mario game 
 to use an orchestra. The sound effects are all good as well. 
  
  The linear game play of this game may make it harder to replay, but the little secrets Nintendo 
 put in the game make it worth getting all 120 stars ( I won't spoil it ) . 
  
  The controls are perfect. Controlling Mario is easy. Most of Mario's attack moves have been replaced 
 with the spin move. Some of the games controls are done by pointing the Wii Remote at the screen, 
 which works fine. This game has a 2-P mode which allows the second character to help out the first 
 by stunning enemies and collecting star bits. The 2-P mode is good, but a bit simple. I would have 
 preferred a co-op mode or something similar.
  
  The difficulty isn't very high. It gets more challenging as the game goes on but certainly won't 
 be much of a challenge to veteran Mario players. Overall, this games linear game play may reduce 
 your enjoyment of this game but I still would recommend buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mister_Over
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  It's been over 5 years in the making, but on November 16th 2007, our prayers were finally answered, 
 and all of our fears were laid to rest , as Mario returned in what could be described as not only 
 his greatest game to date, but arguably the greatest game of this, the 7th console generation.
 
  
  So great is it in fact, that I am at a loss for where to start on this review. 
  
  Anyways, I shall start with the graphics. The game runs smoothly at all times, and during my 80+ 
 hours of playtime with the game so far, I'm yet to detect any sort of slowdown or messy frame rate. 
 Each world is incredibly colourful, but not in a cutesy fashion, and the gorgeous backgrounds of 
 outer space are beautiful to look at. Mario himself looks as good as ever, as does his taller yet 
 slimmer brother, who pops up at unexpected moments during the course of the adventure. All in all, 
 aside from possibly Metroid Prime 3, this game sets the bar for graphics on the Wii.
  
  However, don't think you will have time to stop and stare at the game's beauty - there is so much 
 to do, so much to discover that you won't get a chance. With the usual amount of stars to collect, 
 120 in all, you'll have an awful lot to do, and there are so many little secrets hidden around 
 the games many stages that you're almost guaranteed to find something new every time you pick up 
 the remote, whether that be another star or simply an asortment of star bits (the game's form of 
 currency) floating in the background. 
  
  The tasks you need to complete to obtain these stars range from racing a Boo ghost, stomping a 
 giant mole (one of the game's many bosses) , and even easing the pain of the Queen Bee by picking 
 up the star shards on her body. Basically, the things you need to do to collect these stars varies 
 greatly, resulting in players never getting bored of picking up stars, and being guaranteed to 
 do something different every time. Another feature in the game are the 'comets', which appear at 
 certain times on the game's levels, and they help to add a new twist to each level. There are many 
 different types, such as the 'Daredevil' comet, where you only have 1 piece of health - when you 
 get hit, you die, and also the 'purple' comments, where you have to pick up 100 specially placed 
 purple coins in each level to get a star. Again, this helps in add to the variety in the game. 
 All in all, Super Mario Galaxy will take you quite a while to beat, as it starts out easy, but 
 can provide a great deal of challenge at certain points, making it a very well balanced and accessible 
 game.
  
  And even after you have all 120 stars, it still isn't the end, as you will find out...
  
  Another 
 option that increases the accessibility of the game is that a second player can pick up another 
 remote, and assist the first player in collecting star bits, and even fire them at enemies on the 
 screen, thus making life easier for the first player also. While this feature may feel a little 
 tacked on to some, it does help in making the game accessible to younger players, who may simply 
 want to join in with a parent's or older player's game. 
  
  Adding to the game's charm is it's beautifully crafted soundtrack. It just oozes charm from the 
 moment you set foot into the observatory (the game's hub world of sorts) , and changes dramatically 
 yet sutiably dependsing on the level. You'll find yourself humming along to the tunes in the main 
 levels in no time, and for fans of the series there is another treat - many of the themes from 
 the series' previous games also find their way into Super Mario Galaxy, providing a special nostalgic 
 feel for fans of the series and the mustachioed man himself.
  
  However, none of the above points would mean a thing if the gameplay itself wasn't up to scratch. 
 Happily, I can easily say that it is. It's extremely easy to pick up the controls, with the Nunchuck 
 being used to move Mario, the Z Button used to crouch, the B button used to fire star bits by aiming 
 with the Wiimote, and the A button making Mario jump, with consecutive presses making him do double 
 or even triple jumps, as seen in Super Mario 64 and Mario Sunshine. You'll get used to it in no 
 time, and it will feel so natural, so second nature, that you'll be doing all manner of crazy jumps 
 and ambiious leaps of faith in no time. There are a couple of points where the remote's tilt function 
 is used in other ways as well, but I would not want to spoil the surprise; that's always been the 
 fun thing about the Mario series, with a surprise being around every corner. The game manages to 
 get the camera aspect spot on too, with the D-pad being used to rotate the camera angle as needed, 
 meaning you'll never be stuck in a blind spot or behind another object or part of the scenery.
 
  
  Now some of you may think that I am maybe rating this game a bit too high, but when you first take 
 control of Mario on the first of the game's 30+ planets, you'll be sucked in by the pure magic 
 of it all. In summary, the flawless controls, the game's beautiful graphics and it's equally mesmerising 
 soundtrack, not to mention it's accessibility to gamers of all ages and skills combine to make 
 a game that can't be described as anything other than perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: link_1994
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  At first I thought Mario would be the worst game I cpuld get my hands on, but boy was wrong. This 
 game is amazing, the music , the story, the charecters everything about this game is fantastic. 
 I'll first start this review with the gameplay. 
  
  Gameplay: 
  
  Gameplay is amazing and takes great advantage of the Wii mote capabilities such as shaking the 
 Wii mote to attack or by using the star pointer to collect star bits. The only thing I didn't like 
 was the swimming, which is actually the reason why I didn't give this game a perfect score. So 
 yea the gameplay is great. 
  
  Music/sound: 
  
  There isn't much to say about the music, it always changes with the mood of the game or whenever 
 you go from place to place. So the music is also great. The sound effects were good also. They 
 were a bit cartoony but, impresive.
  
  Graphics: 
  
  Now the Graphics jusr left me so speechless. It felt as if I was playing a mario game for The Xbox360, 
 it was just that incredible. There is always detail and great use of tecture on just about everything. 
 
  
  Story: 
  
  Well the story was okay but, it would have been nice if it wasn't always the whole "Save Princess 
 Peach" sort of thing. So nothing too impresive about the story.
  
  So really Super Mario Galaxy isn't all that bad, if you are a person who thinks Mario might be 
 too kiddy. It's actually quite surprising what kind stuff Nintendo can pull out of their Magical 
 Hat of tricks. 
  
  So to wrap things up Super Mario Galaxy is great, definatly worth the 40 dollars and you won't 
 regret buying this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hitman-2k8
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  [edit] Premise and setting
  
  Super Mario Galaxy allows the player to fully circumnavigate rounded objectsSuper Mario Galaxy 
 is set in outer space, where Mario travels from galaxy to galaxy in order to collect Power Stars, 
 which are earned by completing tasks or defeating enemies. Each galaxy contains a number of planets 
 and other space matter for the player to explore. The game uses a new physics system that allows 
 for a unique feature: each celestial object has its own gravitational force, allowing the player 
 to completely circumnavigate rounded or irregular surfaces, walking sideways or upside down, a 
 feature never seen before in a Mario game (previously, all environments were completely flat) . 
 The player is usually able to jump from one planet and then fall towards another one close by.
 
  
  The game's main hub is the Comet Observatory, which contains six themed domes (Terrace, Fountain, 
 Kitchen, Bedroom, Engine Room, and Garden) that provide access to the forty-two galaxies available 
 in the game. [5] When the player first begins the game, the player has only access to a limited 
 number of galaxies. However, as more and more Power Stars are collected, more galaxies become available 
 for the player to access. Some galaxies are accessed through special means, for example, the star-shaped 
 creatures called "Hungry Lumas" will transform into new galaxies once they are fed enough Star 
 Bits. When all 120 Power Stars are collected, the player has the ability to play through again 
 as Luigi.
  
  There are five "Prankster Comets" that appear periodically (Speedy, Daredevil, Cosmic, Fast Foe, 
 and Purple) . When one of them comes into orbit with a galaxy, a special challenge is initiated 
 that leads to a Power Star. [6] The Speedy Comet challenges the player to traverse a previous level 
 from the galaxy within a time limit ranging from three to six minutes, depending on the level. 
 The Daredevil Comet challenges the player to replay a level while shrinking Mario's life meter 
 to one unit, where any damage leads to instant death. The Cosmic Comet forces the player to race 
 to the Power Star against a doppelganger of the player's character. Fast Foe Comets place Mario 
 in an area of the galaxy where all the enemies move faster than usual. The Purple Comet, accessible 
 only after completing the story half of the game, allots one hundred purple coins (or more, though 
 only 100 are needed) across an area of the galaxy for the player to collect, sometimes within a 
 time limit.
  
  
  [edit] Controls
  The player's character is controlled via the Wii Remote and Nunchuk. While most of Mario's abilities 
 are influenced directly from Super Mario 64, such as the long jump, wall jumps, and a variety of 
 somersaults, Mario is given new moves that take advantage of the Wii Remote's pointer and motion 
 sensing. The most basic control scheme is the Star Pointer, which appears on-screen for the entire 
 game. First and foremost, the Star Pointer is used to pick up special konpeito-shaped objects called 
 "Star Bits", which are then shot to stun enemies, manipulate obstacles, or feed Hungry Lumas. Secondly, 
 the pointer can latch onto objects called "Pull Stars" that gradually pull Mario through space 
 at a slow speed. Lastly, if the player becomes encased in a floating bubble, the Star Pointer is 
 used to blow air at it in order to influence the direction and speed it moves.
  
  An ability that the player gains early in the game is the "Spin" technique, which is activated 
 by shaking either the Wii Remote or the Nunchuk. The Spin is primarily used for melee, as it can 
 stun enemies and shatter objects, and is used to trigger special propellers called "Sling Stars" 
 or "Launch Stars" that launch Mario across large distances through space. The Spin is also used 
 for climbing vines, ice-skating, and for activating several of the power-ups. Other Wii Remote 
 functionalities are available for smaller quests, such as surfing aboard a manta ray or balancing 
 atop a large ball and rolling it through an obstacle course.
  
  
  [edit] Power-ups and lives
  
  Bee Mario is bestowed with the ability to hoverSuper Mario Galaxy 
 features the most power-ups and transformations of all 3D Mario games to date. [7] Eight power-ups 
 supply Mario with a special costume that grants him new abilities. For example, special Mushrooms 
 bestow the player with a Bee or Boo Suit; the former allows the player to hover through the air, 
 and the latter allows the player to become transparent and move through obstacles.
  
  Mario's health consists of a three-piece power meter, which can be depleted from contact with enemies 
 and hazards. When swimming, Mario has a secondary power meter that designates his air supply, which 
 will lead to quick depletion of his main power meter if it runs out. Mario's health can be restored 
 via collection of coins, while his air supply can be restored by collecting coins, touching bubbles 
 or reaching the surface. When the power meter becomes empty, the player loses a life. The power 
 meter can be temporarily expanded to six units through the use of a Life Mushroom, but shrunk to 
 one unit if the Daredevil Comet is in orbit. Instant death can occur to Mario by being swallowed 
 by quicksand or dark matter, falling into bottomless pits, which either consist of black holes 
 or leaving a planet's gravitational pull and falling into space, losing a race against a non-player 
 character, or other special challenges. The player can obtain extra lives by collecting 1-Up Mushrooms, 
 50 Star Bits, or 50 coins while on a single level.
  
  
  [edit] Multiplayer
  Super Mario Galaxy has a co-operative two-player option called "Co-Star Mode", in which one player 
 controls Mario and a Star Pointer while the other controls another pointer on-screen to gather 
 Star Bits and shoot them at enemies. [8] While the first player can normally do this except during 
 certain events, the second player can shoot star bits without restriction. The second player is 
 also more efficient in manipulating the environment, such as halting objects and enemy movement. 
 Additionally, the second player can make Mario jump by simply pressing the A button on him, or 
 the height of Mario's jump can be increased if the first and second player press the A button at 
 the same moment. Because of these added abilities, Co-Star Mode is less difficult than single-player 
 mode.
  
  
  [edit] Plot
  
  Mario is presented with a Power StarShortly after Mario is invited to the centennial Star Festival 
 that celebrates the comet that passes overhead, Bowser invades the Mushroom Kingdom with a surprise 
 attack in a fleet of airships. Summoning a giant UFO, he rips Princess Peach's entire castle from 
 its foundations and lifts it into outer space. After an unsuccessful rescue attempt, Mario is catapulted 
 across the cosmos and awakens on a small planet. On the planet he meets a mysterious woman called 
 Rosalina ("Rosetta"  "Rosetta"?) in the Japanese version) and 
 her companion stars, the Lumas. [9] Rosalina is a watcher of the stars, who uses her mobile Observatory 
 to travel across the universe. However, the Power Stars that act as the Observatory's power source 
 have all been stolen by Bowser, rendering it immobile. Bestowed with the power to travel through 
 space, Mario sets off on an intergalactic adventure across the universe to reclaim the Power Stars 
 and restore power to Rosalina's observatory.
  
  Upon collecting enough Power Stars, Rosalina's Observatory has enough power to transform into a 
 comet and fly to the center of the universe, where the princess is being held captive. Confronting 
 Bowser, Mario learns that Bowser's plan is to rule the entire universe with Princess Peach at his 
 side. Mario manages to defeat Bowser and free the princess. Bowser's planet collapses onto itself, 
 becoming a supermassive black hole and vacuuming everything. All of Rosalina's Lumas destroy the 
 black hole, but are all killed in the process. Rosalina appears to Mario, stating that stars never 
 die, but are later reborn as new stars. Mario awakens in the restored Mushroom Kingdom alongside 
 the princess and Bowser, welcoming the new galaxy that has emerged in the skies.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario2BM5
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2008 5:22 am PT
Review:  This is the game every Wii owner wanted since the first launched and there was a lot of hype for 
 this game and Mario Galaxy deleivered. This is the first Mario game to reach higher expectations 
 than Mario 64 as on the Gamecube there were some mixed thoughts though. The story is a little different 
 but not really. Peach invites Mario to the star festival for a surprise and Bowser taking advantage 
 of the loose guard takes away Peach and her castle into space while Mario is left to die but a 
 luma helps him on his journey to save Peach. Now the graphics are amazing on the Wii! It just shows 
 how third party devolepers are being lazy. The gameplay is so smooth you can play all day with 
 no problem. Once youre done beating Bowser you collect all 120 and fight Bowser again to unlock 
 Luigi and now you can play with him! This game is overall awsome to play and awsome to look at. 
 The graphics actually look like a Xbox360 game! I gave this game a 10/10 and there is nothing wrong 
 and if you have a Wii you have to buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deawsomekurt
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Great game it it the beast in its series go SMG buy it if u like that type of game thumbs up yeh. 
 it also has a big variety of levels planets galexys or wat evever you want to call it. some may 
 have found super mario sunsine a bit puzzling at times but i think super mario galaxy is different 
 maby a bit ezzeyer but there is still alot to do after you beat the game such spend many hours 
 trying 2 unlock luigi and then when you unlock him u relise he is the same as mario and there was 
 no point wasting your time exept you can brag 2 your m8s that u have unlockd him and they havent 
 untill next time c-ya. ^_^ oh dam my revew was only 610 words long need 2 think of someting else 
 to write in this reviw opps did i type that sos its my first review thanks for reading and um yeh 
 well..... not much to say about smg but its a good game i could tell u everthing about every level 
 or i could just blabber on pointlessly but no 1 wants that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaMissed2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Review: Super Mario Galaxy (Wii)
  
  It has been a while since we have seen a classic style Mario platform game on a home console. While 
 most of the rest of the gaming public got bored with Super Mario Sunshine on the Gamecube (the 
 last Mario platform game released) or bashed it for having a "gimmicky" water cannon/ water jet 
 pack, or having a somewhat suspect camera angle from time to time, I found my self hooked and even 
 thought the multitude of other games I have played (which is mind boggling to be sure, if I were 
 to count) I kept finding my self returning to it for another play on a regular basis, but the real 
 question is weather Super Mario Galaxy will live up to the high expectations of the gaming public, 
 and this reviewer in general?, or fall flat?
  
  
  Story:
  While Mario is on his way to meet Princess Peach at the Star Festival, a local gathering of much 
 cheer for the local Toad populace, Bowser attacks and steals the Peach's Castle, Princess, Retainers, 
 Mario, Luigi and all, while making the bold claim that he will destroy this Galaxy and reshape 
 it in his own image. Now it is up to Mario with some help from Luigi, Toad, the keeper of the Comet 
 Observatory, Rosalina, and her friends the Lumas (whom will help Mario not only breathe in outer 
 space but open up new areas of some stages, and create some new stages for you to explore) , To 
 restore the power to the Observatory so you can chase down Bowser and stop his new plot
  
  Graphics:
  This is one of those titles that validate Nintendo's decision not to make the Wii 
 the Graphical Powerhouse that it could have been, in that the game looks great and doesn't loose 
 a bit of the visual flare that one expects when one plays a Mario game. Would this game look any 
 better if the Wii had a better graphics? Sure, but not by much, Mario's characteristic and cosmetic 
 look is the way all fans like it and even if the Wii had a better Graphics chip I doubt very highly 
 that Super Mario Galaxy would look any better if it were on a graphical powerhouse like the PS3.
 
  
  
  
  Music & Sound:
  Another classic soundtrack is what one expects from a Mario Platform game, and another top notch 
 original soundtrack is what we got, quite memorable, and enjoyable not only on it's own but in 
 game as well, you will quite often find your self humming some of the tracks out in public. The 
 entire voice recoding crew from the previous games find their way into this iteration of the traditional 
 Mario franchise, to no ones surprise, and the sounds effects are as usual spot on.
  
  
  
  Control & Game play:
  Nintendo did a good job of making the controls of Mario Galaxy feel 
 more like conducting an orchestra than playing a Mario game, yet it still retains the feeling of 
 controlling a Mario game, essentially making this game intuitive and easy to pick up and play, 
 but the classic Mario shades of difficulty will offer challenges for those whom wish to complete 
 everything. Other than that Mario plays like you would expect of a Mario game and offers challenge 
 when the game needs too.
  
  
  
  Design & Fun Factor:
  This game is unbridled fun in a box, which is something I haven't said about a game in ages it 
 seems. With my increasing age I find my self caring more about story and narrative than graphics, 
 and fun is something that seems to get lost some where in between, but this is what a fun game 
 is supposed to be. That said there are a few things I was happy to see, Luigi returns and has a 
 decent role in this game, as do suits that Mario dons but they are different than the ones he wore 
 in Super Mario Bros. 3 like the Bee suit, Boo Mario, and Spring Mario, and each controls differently, 
 and some large nods to many past Mario Games. But there were some things that I would have liked 
 to see changes like the 60 star limit to enter the final fight with Bowser, I would have liked 
 to see at least 80 stars be the limit since there are 120 stars to collect in this game, I would 
 have liked to have had more use of the suits especially boo Mario, and Where in the bloody blue 
 blazes is Yoshi? Although the camera problem has been taken care of it could have been better, 
 and the static camera may leave some upset, still there is no game on the market that has a "perfect 
 camera system", not even first person games
  
  
  Wii owners do your self a favor and buy this game, if you haven't already, you will not regret 
 it
  
  Graphics
  9/10
  
  Game play
  10/10
  
  Sound
  10/10
  
  Fun factor
  10/10
  
  Tilt
  9/10
  
  Average score
  9.6
  
  
  Super Mario Galaxy:
  
  
 
  Pros:
  Great Graphics
  Another Classic Soundtrack
  Handles Like a fine tuned machine
  Mario Fans will love it
  Luigi is here!
  A bunch of cool new suits!
  Easy to pick up and 
 play
  
  Cons:
  Not really a step up for the Mario series for those looking for a new direction for the series
 
  Camera is much improved but could have been better
  The 60 star limit to fight Bowser still seems a little low
  Where is Yoshi?
  Some of the suits 
 are not used to their fullest potential I feel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  The Mario franchise will forever be considered among the greatest of all timebetter than Halo, 
 better than Half Life, better than Prince of Persia (and maybe even better than Legend of Zelda?) . 
 And frankly, it's easy to see why. Mario seems never to be content to sit on his laurels, and instead 
 is always pushing the envelope, making games a bit better. Admittedly, there have been some weak 
 links in the series (Super Mario Sunshine comes most readily to mind) , but all in all, the series 
 has given to us gamers among the best games ever to have graced our video game systems.
  
  So needless to say, anticipation was running extremely high for the latest installment in the fan 
 favorite series: Super Mario Galaxy. Indeed, that philosophy of innovation of the platforming genre 
 seemed to be present, as this title took place not in the Earthly Mushroom Kingdom, but rather 
 in outer space. And I've got to say, after countless hours of time with this game, I would admit 
 that it lives up to expectation -- in fact, better than that, it exceeds them. I'll say it right 
 now: Super Mario Galaxy is the best Wii game on the market and the single best reason to own the 
 console.
  
  The plot of Super Mario Galaxy certainly anything new. Yes, you're correct: as always, this Mario 
 title features Bowser, evil king of the Koopas, kidnapping Peach. He's captured her entire castle 
 and hauled it up into space! And as always, his motives are unclear -- but it is clear, of course, 
 that it's up to the portly plumber himself to rescue the princess and defeat Bowser. But this time, 
 our favorite mustachioed hero must fling himself into the dangers not of the Mushroom Kingdom, 
 but into outer space. No, it's not at all original, except perhaps for the whole space bit. Still, 
 it provides a bit of an in-game motivation, not that a title this fantastically fun really needs 
 it.
  
  So begins your adventure. As usual, you take control of Mario, this time via rather innovative 
 use of the Wii Remote. The Nunchuk's Control Stick controls movement, and the A button controls 
 Mario's most basic action: jumping. Wii Remote movement functionality is also incorporated into 
 the game's control scheme, and I'm happy to be able to say that it really doesn't feel gimmicky 
 Why? Because it's a simple movement, it makes sense, and there's only one, so it can't easily get 
 confused with other similar motions. Shaking the Remote allows Mario to engage Launch Stars (more 
 later) , and execute a spin attack, which can both defeat foes and bounce back launched projectiles.
 
  
  The outer space set-up is not a gimmick; it plays a huge part in the overall gameplay mechanic 
 implemented by Super Mario Galaxy. The game is divided up into a number of different galaxies, 
 which, like past 3D Mario platformers, consist of a number of different Power Stars to be collected. 
 As you gradually collect more Power Stars, more galaxies will be opened up to you, and you'll be 
 able to access more levels, naturally.
  
  And boy, are those levels incredible. I'll go out on a limb here and say that Super Mario Galaxy 
 sports the best level design I've ever seen in all the games of the series. It's always intuitive, 
 yet also manages to remain somewhat challenging. There are some fun exploration factors within 
 each individual level, but at the same time, it's not a game that you'll be spending a ton of time 
 on just trying to figure out where you're supposed to go next. One of the neatest additions to 
 the gameplay mechanic is the launch stars that are prolifically distributed throughout all of the 
 levels. These stars will, as their name indicates, launch you from planet to planet within the 
 galaxy, allowing you to progress through the level at hand.
  
  But level design doesn't simply consist of muscling through each stage by jumping from launch star 
 to launch star. There are environmental puzzles to solves, as well as enemies to defeat. Foes in 
 Galaxy are much the same as they have been in past Mario games; the most common baddies you'll 
 find throughout your intergalactic trek are Goombas and Koopas. Still, there are some newcomers, 
 which always provides some well-received variety. Defeating them usually requires just the spin 
 move or jumping on them; many, however, have specific protections, which require you to find an 
 alternate way of defeating them. Additionally, another attack move involves pointing the cursor 
 at an enemy and hitting the B trigger to fire star pieces at him.
  
  Environmental puzzles are actually surprisingly plentiful, but as you'd expect from a Mario title, 
 none of them are really that hard. Oftentimes, the launch star is encapsulated and you've got to 
 free it, or your passage is blocked and you've got to find a way to blast through. A lot of these 
 "puzzles" are recycled, and seldom are new ones introduced. There are also tons of environmental 
 obstacles, and these actually do manage to stay quite fresh. They range from flying meteors to 
 reckless wind to flailing chains of fire and everything in between.
  
  One of this game's biggest highlights are the number of different abilities that Mario can adopt 
 in his quest to save Princess Peach. These are introduced gradually throughout the game and all 
 have something to do with the environment in which they are implemented. For example, as you traverse 
 through the Honeycomb Galaxy, you'll find a power-up that turns you into a bee (and a rather cute 
 one, I might add) and allows you to hover for short periods of time and attach yourself to honeycomb. 
 There are quite a few different abilities like this, and they're all very well taken advantage 
 of throughout the game. Plus, the fact that they really only show up in their respective galaxy 
 ensures that they never get monotonous or boring.
  
  The boss fights, as an any Mario game, are fun, though not incredibly memorable. Many of the boss 
 square-offs just pit you against Bowser, and you'll end up fighting the fiendish Koopa several 
 times throughout the course of the game. The basic strategy for beating him never changes -- the 
 only thing that's different is that the difficulty is ramped up a bit each time. Needless to say, 
 this isn't one of the game's strong points, although it still isn't really a huge deal, seeing 
 as these fights only come along once every several hours or so. The "real" boss fights, that is, 
 those that are original, are actually quite fun, and involve a bit of challenge in determining 
 how to defeat the monstrosity at hand.
  
  Another plus of the boss fights is that they do a fantastic job of showing off Galaxy's beautiful 
 visuals. You've no doubt already hear it, but I'll say it again: Galaxy easily has the best graphics 
 on any Wii title to date. They're crisp, clear, colorful, and downright beautiful. The animation 
 runs consistently smoothly, with no drop in frame-rate at all throughout the entire game. Environments 
 are beautifully rendered and lifelike, ranging from those with crisp blue skies and waving grasses 
 to creepy haunted-house locales. The visuals are jaw-droopingly immersive and atmospheric, and 
 in my mind really represent the epitome of what videogame visuals are all about.
  
  The music is also pretty incredible, as you've probably come to expect from a Mario title. Themes 
 range vastly, again depending upon the location in which you're playing. The ability to really 
 get you into an area of a game is a feat that few titles are able to accomplish, but Galaxy does 
 so with ease. Galaxy isn't one of those games where the music makes the game more realistic; rather, 
 it simply makes it more fun.
  
  There's plenty of game value here, so there's no need to worry about throwing your cash at a game 
 that'll only last you a few hours. The game will last you around 20 hours; perhaps less if you're 
 really great at platforming titles, and most likely more, if you're just intent upon having a lot 
 of fun with the game. It's possibly to blow through the game and defeat the final boss by only 
 attaining about half the game's power stars. Honestly, though, I don't know why you would; the 
 levels are just so much fun, and you may even find yourself playing through levels multiple times. 
 There are several different stars to be found in each level, and finding them all will eat up plenty 
 of your free time.
  
  Mario games have never been noted for their high difficulty level, and Galaxy is certainly no exception 
 to that trend. It's not an easy game, per se, but it certainly isn't a hard one. If you just want 
 to get through and beat this title, you're going to have a very easy time of it. However, to truly 
 get the most out of Galaxy, you're going to want to spend time and get as many stars as you can 
 -- and trust me, some of the stars in later levels are actually really tough to attain. The boss 
 fights aren't really that tough either, nor are the platforming obstacles. However, I can easily 
 overlook all that. Why? Because, in short, Galaxy is fun, and isn't that what videogames are really 
 all about?
  
  Galaxy also tries to throw in a multiplayer option, but it's not good at all. A second player can 
 drop freely in and out of the game to snag extra star bits by pointing at the screen and helping 
 out with portions of the game. Seriously, though, it's pretty shallow and boring for the second 
 player. It's no big deal, though, because this isn't really a game to be played by more than one 
 person.
  
  I said it at the beginning of this review and I'll reemphasize: Super Mario Galaxy is the best 
 Wii title on the market to date. It combines everything needed to make a game great and ends up 
 being one of the modern masterpieces of gaming. If you own a Wii and for some reason don't own 
 this game, I implore you: purchase it! You'll be supporting what I consider the best title of this 
 generation of gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkknight313
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  It's about when Mario is celebrating the star celebration and must meet Peach there but is kidnaped 
 by Bowser and then is brought to the Star Galaxy to save Peach and the universe so meets these 
 stars and they help him on his quest so then Mario must gather all of the power stars to restore 
 power to the galaxy and so then they can travel to the center of the universe to save Peach and 
 deafet Bowser. This game is by far one of the best Wii games along with Legend of Zelda: Twilight 
 Princess and Metroid Prime 3. Although they got rid of the 8 red coins and 100 coins challenges 
 and added prankster coments and hidden stars this game is still good now matter how they change 
 a plot of the game it is still good at least they added Luigi mode at the end and a hidden star 
 which is good this game gets a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastermind1177
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those special games that make redefine the term "video game".
  
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 10
  Gameplay: 10
  Innovation: 10
  Value: 10
  
  The hype about 
 Super Mario Galaxy is true. It is an awesome game that deserves Game of the Year 2007. It hits 
 a grand slam in all of the categories, and weaves them together in a seamless whole of a storyline. 
 The best part of the game is that it has a lot of innovative qualities. The fact that it's good 
 for children and is accessible to anyone who has a Wii really improves the gaming industry. I guess 
 we won't see anymore Jack Thompsons anytime soon. I liked how the Wii Remote's control was perfect 
 for the game. You could shake the remote for a spin attack, use the pointer to collect stars, etc.
 
  
  Well, that's my review. The only game that will top this one in '08 will be Super Smash Brothers 
 Brawl! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiifreak53
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Sorry about my other rating. I was fiddling with the score bar and it submitted by accident. Anyway, 
 I think Super Mario Galaxy is a great game and recommend you should buy it. It has superb graphics 
 and great galaxy setups. The story is that Mario is headed to the Mushroom Kingdom to celebrate 
 a festival that happens once every hundred years when Bowser comes by in his flying boat and kidnaps 
 Peach and her castle to take her to the unveiling of his major galaxy that he'll rule from. Mario 
 jumps on the castle to stop him but one of Bowser's minions knock him off into space. Who knows 
 how he survives but he still does and tries to stop Bowser by other means, planet-hopping. Most 
 of the the galaxies are quite vivid and colorful although some are pretty dark. Anyway, the game 
 should keep you going for hours on end!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: likesstuff
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Mario Galaxy has many good aspects to it with very few bad ones. There are many levels and all 
 are different. Some levels are kind of based on each other but the layout differs alot such as 
 the beach levels. The graphics are quite amazing with them easily being the best on the Wii so 
 far so you will not be dissappointed if your used to playing PS3 or 360 graphics. They have done 
 an okay job with implementing the Wii remote into the game but it is not entirely based on it which 
 i wouldve liked to see. There are 120 stars which will keep you occupied for a while but not as 
 long as 120 stars sounds like because of the easier difficulty compared to other mario games and 
 the easier to find secret stars, though the secret stars are still great and can still give you 
 a challenge finding them. Gameplay wise it does an awesome job with the minigames and different 
 transformations you can do (done by eating certain mushrooms) and the simplicity of jumping on 
 enemy heads or spinning around to knock them off their feet.
  
  Overall the game is one of Nintendos best and is must buy for any mario fan or Wii owner or just 
 about anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nin226
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is unbelievable, the graphics are amazing! when i started playing, i didn't want to stop! 
 it was so fun and addictive!
  Ok, to the review, well first is the graphics, this game takes the Wii's graphics and almost pushes 
 them to the limit, and better and it would have to a 360 or ps3 game. I know, i was totally surprised 
 when i heard about i saw them too!
  Now the gameplay, how i describe the gameplay is GREAT! What you do is there are these Gems that 
 can be picked up with your Wii mote by just pointing at them with your remote. These gems are used 
 in two ways, they are used to shoot by pressing the B button and pointing at it's destination to 
 attack enemies. They can also be used to get an extra life when you get 50 of them. Another new 
 feature is Mario's spinning attack, which can be accessed by shacking the Wii controller.
  That about sums up my review, so if you have any questions about the game just message me back 
 and I'll try to answer them as fast as possible! Catch you later!! 
  
  nin226 
::::::

::::::
UserName: locki12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game of Mario sequels, it was a long wait the graphics are are ok but nothing of other 
 world, fun, a large variety of worlds and missions, the thing that I most like was the form that 
 the game immerse you with the Wii controls, make a twist moving the Wiimote is incredible and another 
 thing is the Marios changes like Ice Mario and bee Mario, it was a big idea this "transforms", 
 the thing that I don't have clear is the Rosalina's story, is weird but is a Mario game and probably 
 it could make sense into his world, I have a great time with it and it have more missions til' 
 the end, it was a surprise to see that are more worlds ans super stars that wait in some place, 
 in few words, i have a great time with this game, the ones that think in buying it, do it, is awesome 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony931
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  After going through the trudging Mario Party, and suffering through the countless "spinoffs" of 
 his sport series, fans finally await for yet another 3D platformer that's exclusive for the Wii. 
 And this... is Super Mario Galaxy.
  
  And already, Mario delivers a punch in your face with the majestic music playing in every galaxy 
 he dashes through, and the fun that is within the Wii controlling. So much so that I just had to 
 buy it. Alas, this is just the beginning of our review.
  
  So, a celebration that happens once every century in the Mushroom Kingdom is Mario's very first. 
 Where stars from outer space enter through Earth's atmosphere, and into the palms of many Toads 
 and Toadettes. Unfortunately, the party gets crashed when the return of doomships come aboard. 
 Looks like Bowser is at it again! With that, Mario tries to rescue Peach from him, but is beaten 
 by a Magikoopa's power of magic. Oh, and did I mention that this happens while the castle is being 
 taken to the denseless place called Space? Yeah. Anyways, Mario survives the blow, and also manages 
 to find a planet where life exist as bunnies with a star on each ear. After playing their little 
 game, Mario is shown to a space-craft with thousands of living stars coming and going. Their queen 
 is considered as their Mom. The name? Rosalina. Princess Rosalina. She knows quite alot about these 
 stars. Why is her ship stuck? Well, there are six grand stars that need to be placed inside the 
 engine. Guess who's guarding them? Bowser and his son, Bowser Jr. of course! If Mario can receive 
 these stars from them, then he will be given his special one -- Princess Peach.
  
  Introduced in the world of Mario is the idea of scaling gravity, while beating down all your local 
 enemies. Even some new ones that are added. On your way collecting little stars to process another 
 galaxy, your faced with little candies that only the stars can devour. If you can give one of them 
 enough, she/he will transform into either another planet, or give you a transportation to a galaxy 
 that's not in the same zone as all others. You can also go face-to-face with bosses that appear 
 in almost every level in the game.
  
  What about the stars mentioned? Well, for every mission you do, you recieve this star. You can 
 also find some various stars that can either be hidden, or caused by different comets. Comets, 
 you say? Yes. Comets. You see, when a comet drifts onto a galaxy, everything is affected. Whatever 
 it's a comet that reduces your health to one, or if purple coins strangely appear in different 
 areas. There's a couple of stars also that's basically rescuing Luigi from a certain area of the 
 level. Why? Well, he wants to help! Unfortunately, after getting these stars, Luigi decides to 
 not do anymore buisness. So, it's his loss. Curse him, anyways.
  
  There's even the return of powerups. Everybody seems to be antsy on Bee Mario, since it's him wearing 
 a bee suit while showing his ass from the promotional art. One hit from water, and it automatically 
 dissapears. Then there's a powerup that looks as if Mario dated a Boo. That would be a Boo Mario 
 to exact. Like that date, it seems that all the Boos in the world are going after you. Luckily, 
 you can still kill them off by making them follow you -- much like having a Boo try to follow you 
 as Regular Mario. Unfortunately, you can get yourself killed to. Step into the light, and you turn 
 right back into Mario. Then there's Spring Mario. Personally, it's more of a Slinky Mario than 
 a Spring Mario. But that's only because you can move like one. Your main power is to jump higher 
 than what Mario can do when doing a super jump. Oh! Don't forget about some other "returns". Say 
 hello... to Superstar Mario! That's right! You can become invinicible once again, crushing down 
 any enemy in just one hit. Let's not forget the famed Fire Mario. But this time though, it acts 
 like a true powerup. Because in here, you get to become him for a limited time. Luckily, Fire Mario's 
 brother, Ice Mario joins the team with the opposite element.
  
  With furnished graphics, and all junk -- is there a problem? Yes. The controls. You may've heard 
 me say that there's fun within them. But I didn't say most of the time. Sometimes, going through 
 different gravity sections can be frustrating to the local gamer. I especially despised some levels 
 thanks to this. One is a ball-rolling level that uses a different aspect of the control, and most 
 of them are gravity walks that gives a change of control when your turning your head. Thankfully, 
 this dosen't happen all the time. Oh yeah, and in the Time Comet, it's just bull. That is, if you 
 fail. When you do, you have to get a life taken away. Honestly, I see Mario (For some reason.) 
 "dying", but is it that great that you need your life taken away? No. Why it should've been Mario 
 angered instead of that? Do the death when his health is lost. That's why the Daredevil Comet slides 
 grandly.
  
  After beating the game, your awarded with a heartwarming ending that has most of the stars sucking 
 down a black hole that's caused by a humongous explosion of Bowser's planet. This causes what seems 
 to be a time paradox, and everybody in the Mushroom Kingdom return at their location. Even Bowser 
 was saved! With that, new galaxies were made in his universe, and the stars that sacrificed their 
 lives being their new life. Getting over the amount of stars that you used to save Princess Peach, 
 and you can play Luigi. You will also cross through another galaxy that you can get access by those 
 green stars. Grab over 120 stars, and you can expect a longer ending. Unfortunately, it dosen't 
 really do much. Although there could be a sequel, it's just rumor... or maybe not.
  
  Gamespot Rating: 9.5 out of 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpgmadboy
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 24, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  This game manages to pull off an amazingly fun game. It reminds me of super mario 64 but in space.
 
  It's the typical story once again. Princess peach is stolen by bowser and guess who has to save 
 her. Thats right Mario.
  You end up having to get stars to power up this sort of land thats a spaceship to reach bowser. 
 There are many features used with the wii remote and fun mini games and tons to do. To get all 
 the stars its gunna take a while. Within each level are some amazing places you can go to and it 
 is amazing how the developers constructed amazing levels, it was really really thought out. Sometimes 
 comets hit certain planets and it changes what happens within the level and there is a new star. 
 for instance you may have to race someone or the level is speeding up.
  Graphics are nice for a wii game they have a shiny touch. 
  Overall this game is a really fun 
 game and shouldn't be missed by a wii owner. Ive just saying that is is abit over-hyped.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tancred8120
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  These days, you see Mario playing various sports or throwing a party most of the time. But, it 
 is rare that you see a Mario platformer, which nowadays come around about every 5 years, and these 
 are truly a blessing. Super Mario Galaxy makes no exception, and is arguable the best Mario game 
 to date. Super Mario Galaxy breathes some life into 3-D platformers, which have had a huge plummet 
 downwards over the years.
  
  Well, once again, Peach is captured by Bowser, but what else is new? This time, Bowser's ship basically 
 cuts out the land around Peach's castle and takes the castle into space. Mario manages to catch 
 onto it, but he is knocked off into space, and ends up landing on a small planet. You are awakened 
 by little bunny creatures, who want you to play a game. If you can catch them, they will tell you 
 where you are. The actually are star creatures called lumas. They take you to their leader, and 
 you are asked to collect power stars to help power their space station. In return, they will take 
 you to the center of the universe, where you can confront Bowser and save Peach. 
  
  If you have never played a Mario game before, the gameplay is basically the same as previous ones, 
 which is excellent. You use places called observatories to find different galaxies and retrieve 
 a power star from each stage. You have to get a certain number of stars to unlock another galaxy. 
 To complete an observatory, you need to collect a Grand Star, which are in the possesion of Bowser 
 and Bowser Jr. You will find a Fortress where you need to defeat a boss to get the grand star. 
 You eventually find Luigi, conveniently trapped inside a haunted house. He will assist you in your 
 quest to collect all the stars. He usually finds one, but is trapped there, so you have to go and 
 find him. 
  
  There are items to collect too: Star Bits and Coins. There are many star bits in a level, and you 
 can collect them by pointing the wii remote at them. When you collect 50 star bits, you will get 
 a one up. You can also use star bits to feed to lumas. Sometimes the will transform into a planet 
 or a galaxy, which may contain a hidden star. Coins are a much more rare, and you actually have 
 to walk into them to pick it up. It will recover your health by one bar, and also if you collect 
 50 you get a one up.
  
  There are also things called Prankster Comets. They orbit around galaxies, causing changes. With 
 one in orbit, you can get a star that otherwise you couldn't. There are comets that make enemies 
 faster, make you have to complete a stage with limited amount of time, make you only have 1 health 
 bar, or makes you collect 100 purple coins, all to get another star. Although the main quest is 
 on the easy side, these can be quite challenging, which really helps balance the game between hard 
 and easy and accessible by anyone. 
  
  The controls in Mario Galaxy are superb, the wii controls fit in perfectly, although their is one 
 problem: Underwater controls can be frustrating. Especially if you are trying to swim into a specific 
 object, and the camera angle doesn't cooperate well. This doesn't really effect the awesomeness 
 of the game as a whole, as there are not much water levels but it really can be an annoyance sometimes. 
 There could be another potential problem too. The wii remote cannot respond to rapid shaking, so, 
 if there are tons of enemies around you, then you couldn't spin fast enough to hit all of them. 
 But, this problem is avoided because you will rarely ever be in a situation like that.
  
  You may come across mushrooms with patterns on it in certain levels. These are actually Mario's 
 suits and are extremely fun to use. There is a bee suit, a boo suit,, a fire suit, an ice suit, 
 and a springy suit. As I said: these suits are extremely awesome and fun too use. The only suit 
 I have a problem with is the springy suit. It is another matter of controls. Don't get me wrong, 
 it is fun to use, just somewhat annoying. For example, you may not even be touching the analog 
 stick, but you jump around, which can lead to death if you fall off. Also, you need to time just 
 right to bounce really high, so sometimes it is easy to die if you can't time a jump right.
  
  The graphics are even better than gameplay. Sure the gameplay is excellent, but the graphics 
 are wonderful and easily the best on the wii so far. The artistic style is beautiful and imaginative, 
 and the level designs are really the best gaming has ever seen. You travel through bizarre and 
 wacky levels that are supported by top notch graphics. The levels are never recycled through the 
 game; there is always a new level waiting. The game plays very smoothly, no frame rate issues, 
 and the textures are perfect. Way to show off the wii's real graphical power, Nintendo!
  
  The sound is just as amazing as the graphics; especially the music the music. Galaxy brings back 
 many old Mario tunes, and sometimes in a very interesting way. Sometimes you come across a question 
 mark ting that if you touch; music notes will form in a line. When you walk through the notes, 
 an old Mario tune will play, each note being a small part of the song. By doing this you may unlock 
 a 1-up mushroom, ect. It is really interesting hearing all these tunes in a unique way. Also, the 
 new, modernized music is just a delight to listen to. Although you might not hear much more that 
 a "Wahoo" or "Yippee" from Mario, you're still getting top notch sound across the board.
  
  You need 60 stars to complete the main quest, but just like in Mario 64, there are 120 stars just 
 waiting for you to collect them. You'll want to find them all because there is so much originality 
 in the level design. The same goes for why you'd want to play as Luigi to collect the stars again. 
 So if you just do the main quest, Mario Galaxy will last you 10 or less hours. But, if you search 
 for all the stars and play as Luigi, you can easily rack up 30 hours of play time.
  
  Galaxy has a very interesting multi-player mode. One player controls mario, and one is kind of 
 like an assistant. Just a pointer that can stun enemies and pick up star bits; which can really 
 help at times, and is good if a friend wants to join in on the fun. 
  
  All in all, Super Mario Galaxy is a near perfect game, with only a few control issues leaving a 
 small dent on otherwise amazing experience. Anyone who has a wii needs to add this to their collection. 
 It is a crime to call Super Mario Galaxy anything but an absolute triumph.
  
  Breakdown
  
  Gameplay ~ 9
  Graphics ~ 10
  Sound ~ 10
  Value ~ 9
  Tilt ~ 10
  
  Overall: 9.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: croogix
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  First off, this is a great game. It really does deserve the Editor's Choice award. Furthermore, 
 it's a great game to occupy children, and it can be fun for the whole family if they play single 
 player. 
  
  The reason for that being that this game doesn't have a solid 2 player mode. All the second player 
 does is collect the star bits and shake bushes. Occasionally they may make Mario jump. There just 
 isn't much. To fully enjoy the game you have to play both modes, but the real fun lies in single 
 player.
  
  Now, onto the children. Kids will love this game in the way that the story goes. There's magical 
 things going on, it's simple to play, the shallow story won't confuse them, and the backgrounds 
 tied in with the music make it appealing to those of the younger generation.
  
  That being said, the game is very lacking in the story. If you play the whole game through, you 
 learn a bit more about the Rosalina character through the library. Even so, never before have we 
 heard of the great star bits that fall from the sky every one hundred years. Not only that, but 
 after Princess Peach is captured once again by Bowser, Mario falls to the Earth, is caught y something, 
 and all of a sudden you're finding power stars to find Peach. Never before have gravity-bending 
 planets and galaxies ever been brought up, and now that they have been, we've been rushed right 
 into them, barely being briefed on how this all came to be.
  
  However, the graphics are very well done, but in my opinion, don't quite come up to scratch with 
 Super Mario Sunshine. Although, the graphics mixed with the music gives a whole new ambiance to 
 the game, which is quite lovely. The music is midi, but can sometimes sound orchestrated. Not only 
 that, but they even brought back old classics like the Special Stage theme form Super Mario Bros 
 3. This game reminisces of the past while hurling us into the future. Overall that's a good combination.
 
  
  While the story may be lacking, and the graphics not quite perfect, the gameplay is also a bit 
 shallow. Yes there are different outfits for Mario to use such as a Fireball suit and an Ice suit, 
 but they are sometimes hard to control effectively. Also, the game is very easy to win, even completely. 
 It took me under 3 days to make it to Bowser for the last time, and I only played for a couple 
 hours each day. Again, perfect for a child, but after all is said and done, collecting 120 starts 
 with both Mario and Luigi doesn't take much time at all. The whole game is just a little too simple.
 
  
  All in all though, this game still deserves that award, and is certainly going to remain in my 
 collection for a while. Although not entirely perfect, this game is still one of the best for Wii, 
 and it's clear why. It didn't win Best Game of the Year award for 2007 for nothing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bozman_Beyond
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 4:45 am PT
Review:  I thought to my self how cool what a great concept. It was a bit trippy as if I was on top of a 
 100 story building doing a hand stand on the edge. The two most annoying things in the game was 
 the races and the upside down part and to be honest I don't think this is much of a kids game it 
 would be too challenging for a 5-10 year old as it was my girlfriend of 26 who couldn't do the 
 sting ray races or the upside down sand trap. The game seem to get repetitive with the same walk 
 around on a small orb like planets and kill this to get that thing. The replay value is just not 
 there, big deal you can play the game a Luigi after you go through the whole game again to get 
 that annoying 121st star and finding some of them is not easy you do need a cheat book for that. 
 I say just play through the game beat it feel satisfied and trade it in if you blew you money on 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario galaxy has amazing visual effects and game play. Like super Mario 64 it has 120 stars, 
 (121 if you count beating the game 4 times) . Like all other Mario games the kingdom is lost and 
 you have to save peach, nut this time in outer space. The controls and camera's view can be tricky 
 to figure out but later you get the feel to it, (oh no the camera view is stuck on the lava) . seeing 
 the game beat 4 times by myself the truly hard parts of the game seem to be those crazy comets 
 around certain levels, cosmic comets seem to get me angry allot. Then again some purple coins stages 
 had me playing over and over at least 200 times, (Mario meets luigi) . those wondering luma's could 
 be a pain too, cause they sucked all your hard earned star bits away. the creators should of added 
 another boss star for the garden levels that would of have been great. The more stars you get the 
 more chapters you would unlock for the libary, to see the rosaline tell the story of her life, 
 (okay we know your lonly just make the libary into an observatory instead k) . The cool thing about 
 getting all 120 stars and beating bowser twice is that you can now play the whole game all over 
 again with luigi which is kind of okay, he gets little bit bigger jumps. after beating the game 
 with both characters and beat bowser at number of 4 times you unlock for both characters a level 
 for 121 star that set at the castle in its original spot and you have to collect purple coins and 
 near the end you can get some mail by the mail toad that has congrats and picture which can be 
 sent to the wii message board, (I got the luigi and the toads pic put on the photo channel menu) .
 
  
  Overall this game is blast of fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSWII60user
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  This game looks amazing, plays amazing, sounds amazing, and level design is amazing. Damn that 
 Bowser and his nefarious schemes, but without him we wouldn't have gotten such a great game. Now 
 its not revolutionary like 64 but it better than 64 game play wise. the only reason i say its very 
 easy is because getting the first 61 stars is just that, very easy. But trying to get those last 
 59 is a hard as hell. especially the last few purple coin levels. anyway this game is so good that 
 i basically just played it 12 hours straight. and if you like Mario as much as i do you'll do the 
 same. This game is perfect for newcomers to the series cause like i said the game is very easy, 
 but it is perfect for the mario veterans because again like i said hard as hell to get all 121 
 stars. If your looking for a completely overhauled Mario game, (which i hope your not) then this 
 isn't for you. but if your looking to continue with the tried and true method for producing the 
 best series of all time then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkraush
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2008 3:19 am PT
Review:  I just wanted to throw another rave review into the user review pit because this game is so amazing 
 so here goes. The thing that attracted me so much to this game was the level design and the overall 
 graphics of the game. Everything looks amazing to the detail and the use of gravity in this game 
 adds yet another creative dimension to the Mario we all know and love. I keep wondering when they're 
 going to run out of ways to make Mario awesome again, but this game proves it hasn't happened yet. 
 I gave this game a perfect 10, I don't think I've ever given a game a 10 in a gamespot review, 
 I just don't see how it could be any better.
  
  I suppose if I were forced at gunpoint to think of something negative to say about SMG it would 
 be how much worse it makes all the previous Mario releases on the Wii look. I hated Mario Party 
 8 and I moderately enjoyed Mario Strikers charged. But compared to SMG Mario Party 8 especially, 
 feels like such an effortless cash grab.
  
  The bottom line is that this is the best game for Wii, and may always be the best game for Wii. 
 Go play it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colincancer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Super mario galaxy has been hyped to be the next true successor to Super Mario 64, and this game 
 delivers. The game does not fall into the trap other games have: going overboard with the wii controls 
 so that the gameplay is no longer fun. 
  this time mario has no punch. Instead, shaking the wii remote from side to side will execute a 
 spin attack. This works well, because it doesn't require too much of a shake and isn't so sensitive 
 that you're randomly spinning every time you twitch the controller. The movement also feels natural 
 and not gimmicky, and after a few minutes of playing you should have the skill down.
  The worlds in this game are varied and fun, although some get repetitive. I felt as if there was 
 one too many swimming/underwater beach level in this game, and towards the end the worlds get smaller 
 and less expansive, as if the developers ran out of ideas.
  One problem that I have with the game however, is that is seems a little too easy for me. I easily 
 beat the game in seven or eight hours (but didn't get all stars) . It seems as if the game was made 
 easier so little kids could play too, so some levels are so easy that you'll beat them in five 
 or six minutes of playing. Another problem is its lack of replay value. After you beat the game, 
 there is no incentive to keep playing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shellltor
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Mario gets exited when he gets a letter from Peach inviting him to the star festible as exspected 
 our old friend Bower crash but this time with a giant fleet of air ships with cryistlizing cannons. 
 Bower's assistant Kamleck warps Mario to a galaxy were he finds Princess Rosalina, Ruler of Lunas. 
 Mario teams up with a Luna that gives u the ability 2 spin. this spin attack can destroy giant 
 crystals, bash bad guys and jump farther. This game is very fun from soaring though the to power 
 ups and destroying giant toy robot. There is no limit to the constant galaxy related, non water 
 log, non castle+picture, Wii action and retro music fun this game will bring some competision to 
 Sony's PS3 and Microsoft's XBOX360.
  
  
  OO OO
  OOO OOO
  O O O O
  O
  OO OO O
  OOOOOOOOOOOOOOO
  OOOOOOOOOOOOO
  OOOOOOOOOOO
  
  Please squint to see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achmed_Assassin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very good quality, lengthly adventure game. The Wii remote functionality is used 
 in several very clever ways, and the graphics are excellent as well. The story is pretty much the 
 usual go rescue Peach, but there is more to it this time, and there is a background story to another 
 important character in this game. The levels are absolutely beautiful with highly detailed backgrounds. 
 Finally, the controls are good and nothing really takes to long to master (even the changeing gravity) .
 
  
  That all makes a really good game, but there's one thing that really bugs me. This game is insanely 
 easy. The old Mario games actually made it likely that you would loose some lives and get a few 
 "Game Over"'s This game however, if you even one game over, I'll be quite surprised.
  
  Then, after all the easy levels, there's one infuryatingly hard one that will take ages to finish, 
 or will keep killing you, then giving you just one more life so you can go at it again and again 
 and again.
  
  Still, the game is good, and the plot is a least a little diferent from other Mario games, so you 
 should try this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AweWiiGamer1
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is the latest 3D platforming adventure from the Nintendo corporation for the 
 Wii. The game lands Mario, on where he has to save the beloved Princess Peach from Bowzer and his 
 evil clutches on his planet. Mario must save the Power Stars and rescue Peach, with the help of 
 a fairy named Rosalina, for moral and general guidance in the game.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy has raised the benchmark for Nintendo games and the whole Mario brand in general. 
 The galaxies themselves are highly imaginitive in concept, and intricate and complex in design 
 and in it's technical functions. The game has a wide array of colour, and give the level and appeal, 
 and matches with the overall innocence of the game. The graphic level is so polished and up to 
 scratch, that meets a look of no other you'll find in a Wii game. 
  
  The game requires the use of both the Wii Remote and the Nunchuck. The Nunchuck controls Mario, 
 and the Wii Remote is used for attack, and to collect Star Bits, and to go or connect with things 
 and places up high or far away. The simplicity of the controls, makes it acsessible to newcomers 
 of Wii and Mario in general. The controlling maybe not that advanced, but easy to use, which is 
 what it should be.
  
  Overall, Super Mario Galaxy gets everything right. It's sweet-natured, and will be very hard to 
 top in future adventure Mario games and many games in general. Nintendo, one word: "sequel" please. 
 NOW! Mario Kart Wii, Super Smash Bros. Brawl, fine, looking forward to them also, but come on....
 
  
  
  SUPER MARIO GALAXY 2!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirror_Blade07
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  An awesome game with stunningly good graphics, amazing gameplay, and the classic platformer feel 
 of Mario games. While the storyline may seem unoriginal at first --Bowser abducting Peach, for 
 instance -- it unfolds into an instant classic for Wii-owners. One of the fears for gamers was that 
 the game would simply be hopping from asteroid-like planet to planet. This is completely a different 
 case. While we get the footholds in outer space, we also explore exotic planets, each different 
 from the last. New power suits, including the Bumblebee Suit and the Fire Flower suit, are available 
 to help push this Mario game to the elite force we've come to expect from the moustached hero. 
 In short, this is a must-have for all Wii users --veteran to the series or just picking up the 
 role of a plumber for the first time.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghigno92
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2008 7:17 am PT
Review:  Finally the game that dusts the beautifuls N64's days!
  
  With a galactic start, you must go through the universe, searching for 120 stars! (even better, 
 121 XD) .
  
  The graphics and the sound are very good, and the story is simple but is involving... and I finished 
 the game with Mario, and then I finished it again with Luigi, the tall and green Mario's brother... when 
 I had caught 240 stars (120 with Mario and 120 with Luigi) , I unblocked the Grand Finale Galaxy!!
 
  The Grand Finale Galaxy's star is too easy... but it gives a very big satisfaction...242 stars!!
 
  
  While I was playing this game, I remembered the superb game "Super Mario 64", from that it takes 
 may things: the able use of colours, the galaxies of fire, ice, sand, water, etc. such as the N64's 
 game.
  
  WELCOME!! WELCOME IN NEW GALAXY!!
  
  You must have this game, it's too nice!!
  
  P. S. I hate Peach... poors Mario and Luigi, they 
 must always go to save her, and poor Bowser, who loses always. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RockstarDX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  I think we all know who Mario is. A gaming legend. The king of games. Yada yada yada. So, it would 
 be expected that his games would be great. When Mario transferred to 3D, he came up with Super 
 Mario 64. One of the greatest Mario platformers to date. Mario also started having many spin-offs 
 being created too. He then went to the Gamecube coming out with Super Mario Sunshine. Which was 
 a bit of a disappointment. It fell very away from the traditional Super Mario 64 formula. And turned 
 into something very disappointing. So for Mario to regain his cool, he came up with Super Mario 
 Galaxy. Does this title live up to the 64 days? Let's find out.
  
  Every hundred years, a huge comet flies by in the skies above the Mushroom Kingdom. One year, that 
 comet filled a stream of shooting stars. The toads scooped up the star bits and brought them to 
 the castle, where they were reborn as a great power star. It was a happy time in the Mushroom Kingdom. 
 Then on night, Mario received a letter. Peach has invited Mario to come to the castle during the 
 night of the Star Festival. She had something to give to him. When Mario comes, something happens...
 
  
  Super Mario Galaxy tries its best to stay true to the 64 formula with some new gimmicks here and 
 there. You can still jump on enemies and use pipes and all that classic junk. He also has new abilities 
 like his spinning attack. Here's the cool part. You can completely try to stick to the game the 
 classic way by jumping on enemies earning coins while spinning into enemies and earning star bits 
 instead. Classic movements get classic items and vice versa. Which is pretty cool. Though, you 
 are most likely using the spinning often as it is much easier to spin into enemies.
  
  Star Bits are used for many things. You can feed them to hungry lumas to reach new planets and 
 get power stars. You can also shoot them at enemies with B. It can be quite useful if you take 
 advantage of it. Coins help refill your health. There are also power-ups in this game. Like the 
 Bee Mushroom. Which puts you in a Bee costume and you can fly and stick to honey walls. There are 
 more but I won't go into much depth about the power-ups. They're all pretty cool. With classic 
 items and new items.
  
  The platforming is alot like 64 which is a great thing. You try to collect stars to be able to 
 travel to the center of the universe and help save Princess Peach from Bowser. Just like how all 
 Mario game's stories are. The game controls great. I have had no problem with the game at all with 
 controls. There are some camera issues though. You can't even change the camera in the water. Don't 
 think because 64 didn't have a good camera making it bad here is A okay Nintendo.
  
  All levels are pretty good. But as you get to the harder galaxies, Nintendo started re-using ideas. 
 there's even an exact copy of the Honeylive galaxy as you progress! I'm guessing Nintendo had to 
 rush for the release date. Maybe a delay would've been good to complete these last few galaxies. 
 The game levels are pretty well overall. It's a bit lazy at the end though.
  
  The game even tries to make good use of the Wii controller. There are things like Ray Surfing, 
 Rolling Ball, and Bubble Blasting that try to make good use of the Wii Remote. It's not anything 
 plain awesome but it's satisfying and is a good break from the platforming.
  
  The graphics are plain beautiful. You might sometimes just want to sit down and look at the marvelous 
 graphics. That's how great they are. Mario is shaded in a way that fits perfectly for such a game 
 and the levels just look beautiful.
  
  The music is just as great. It has great new orchestra tunes and also remixes of classic Mario 
 music. A good amount of classic and new. Sound effects are awesome too. I think Mario's voice could 
 be improved though. Thank goodness there isn't much voice acting here.
  
  The game will keep you playing for hours. You'll find out you can do more then just collecting 
 120 stars. The game overall is excellent. One of the best platformers to date. It lives up to Super 
 Mario 64 quite well. Better then Sunshine for sure. Good job Nintendo. You can call me and big 
 Mario fan now after amazing me with such an awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-Lafleur
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  I have been a Mario fan ever since the first Mario game ever, and ever since I was but 5 or 6 years 
 old. And with glaxy, I still can say without a doubt that it is a fantastic game!
  
  The gameplay was entertaining and immersive. It was such an enjoyable and unique experience to 
 be flying all around space and manipulating gravity by jumping and flying around all these various 
 planets. There were many kinds of different planets, as well as many different galaxies to traverse, 
 all offering different challenges. There were plenty of bosses to fight, and many enemies to plow 
 through, as well. The boss battles were entertaining and thrilling, they never left me bored or 
 uninterested. This game can certainly last a while if you try to collect all stars, with just Mario. 
 It takes even longer if you play through the game again as Luigi! Of course, if you only want to 
 beat the game, and that's it, you can, though the experience will be much more quicker and shorter 
 and you won't ba able to appreciate the game quite as much.
  
  The graphics in this game were wonderful, especially considering this is the Wii we are talking 
 about. The lighting, the colors, the enviroments, the effects, all done fabulously! The game was 
 pleasing to the eyes, andit was it was just so appealing! Trult magnificent work.
  
  Though the music is not what I expected from Galaxy, it was beautiful, none the less. It was well 
 performed, it was powerful, and it was memorable. There of course was older, more classical mario 
 music we all grew up to in Galaxy, and those were terrific, too. I couldn't love the music anymore.
 
  
  There wasn't much of a story in this game, but that should be expected, since all Mario platforms 
 are like that, so I cannot really penalize the game for that.
  
  The gfame was overall pretty easy, though some levels did provide some difficulty (I'm looking 
 at you, trickster comets....) , which is fine, not everything needs to be painfully difficult.
 
  
  In the end, this game was flawless, everything about it was done perfectly. I have absolutely no 
 complaints with it. It is easily one of the best Wii games thus far. If you are a mario fan, you 
 HAVE TO buy this game, if you own a Wii, you MUST BUY Galaxy! You will not regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomrings
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  I don't agree that this game is perfect at all, but for a while I was starting to think it wasn't 
 very far from it. At first I thought "great, now Nintendo thinks they're awesome by hyping everyone 
 up on a game that's going to be horrible, but everyone will say its perfect". Now I almost thought 
 it was perfect. You get to help this Rosalina chick (who I personally think was kind of cool until 
 that one scene where she's huge) restore her space station to the point where it can turn into 
 a ship-mode thing and go to save your princess (being Peach) . There's a lot of fun and secrets 
 to be had with Super Mario Galaxy, with more than one of those galaxies to explore a lot more 
 than one. It kind of went back to the controls of the epic Super Mario 64, but it didn't have to 
 go too far, and it didn't. The Wii controls weren't too motion-based but it's not another DDR Mario 
 Mix so it didn't need that either. Super Mario Galaxy was just really nicely done and how it slowly 
 drops you from easy missions to the more difficult ones is nice and smooth, just like the visuals. 
 All the bosses are pretty original including the way to beat them, so don't try to grab Bowser 
 by the tail again. I would tell you more on how awesome this game is, but I might spoil you with 
 too much story details.
  Some of the missions are too easy though which is why it might take you less than one game rental 
 to beat the last boss. If you played it like I did though, the last boss is really only a quarter 
 of the whole game. There's also that one mission that I just can't do. As of now I have 119 stars. 
 The Dreadnought garbage dump thing makes me extremely angry, so not every challenge is going to 
 have you come out saying "well, what a nice challenge", some might have you saying "'bout time". 
 Everything just comes together really well besides the stages that make a little too good a use 
 to the Wii remote. You'll see what I mean early on, go get a copy yourself. This IS VERY MUCH a 
 reason to buy a Wii.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cellie1985
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 1:42 am PT
Review:  The main reason I bought the game was probably because of the hype surrounding it and because I 
 thought it would live up to this hype. I wouldn't say I'm dissapointed - the graphics are cute 
 and colorful, the game isnt to easy or to hard and... its Mario for pete's sake! We all love Mario. 
 But man, its shallow and THATS why I got bored with it within a week. There just isnt enough variety. 
 Great, you fly off to different galaxy's chasing stars, oh and you get special suits, yawn. I had 
 one or two "Oh Snap!" moments but that was it. Some better RPG elements would've enhanced the boring 
 storyline too. The whole storybook idea is quite funny actually. One can easily see that not much 
 thought was put into structuring it properly and it gets kinda ridiculous after the first 6 or 
 7 pages. Its a lame attempt at adding at least some variety. But assuming this is a fun-for-the-whole-family 
 game, I can understand that.
  
  Anyway, thats my first review, fun game albeit shallow and I'm off to play Resident Evil 4 again 
 while I wait for my copy of Trauma Center: New Blood to be delivered :)
  
  Cheers!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lawliet1989
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  I was very surprised at this game. It actually lived up to the hype. I got thinking "okay, it will 
 be decent, but not this Earth shattering game people are saying it is". I was wrong, it was amazing, 
 from beginning to end. All of the galaxies were interesting and each had their individual feels. 
 The comets made things even more interesting. The purple comets make for real challenge (especially 
 Luigi's Purple coins and Battleship's purple coins) . You will die too..... alot, but that is to 
 be expected from any Mario game. And once you get all 120 stars you feel so satisfied its unbelievable. 
 The you can play as Luigi!! 
  
  Also this game has very simple controls so anyone can pick up and just play it, i. e. a friend just 
 hanging out for the day. But the harder levels make it still enjoyable. Many of the stars are frustrating, 
 but you wanna keep trying just because their fun. Best Mario game in a very long time.
  
  --Jack 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  I don't know how Nintendo pulls it off, but with every Mario game, something new is introduced 
 that makes the game fresh, yet they always make it nostalgic and so there is a perfect balance 
 of old and new to make a brilliant platformer. You have Mario Bros. 2 with multiple characters 
 and the 'picking things up' system. You have Mario Bros. 3 with the freedom of paths and new suits. 
 You have Mario World with greater freedom and secrets and Yoshi. You have Mario World 2 with Yoshi 
 exclusive. You have Mario 64 with 3D. You have Mario Sunshine with FLUDD (despite what people say, 
 I think it was a magnificent game) . You have New SMB with new suits and new level styles. Now you 
 have Mario Galaxy with the idea of gravity and galaxies. Can it even get any better?
  
  The game itself plays pretty simply. The controls are similar to the past 3D outings, using the 
 stick to move, A to jump, Z to stomp and B (for new function: shoot star bits) . Simple enough, 
 and Mario moves the same as he did so it doesn't take too long to get used to his movements. The 
 remote is flicked to do a spin attack, and the remote is used JUST often enough in just the right 
 ways so that it is made use of, while not made gimmicky. It is used for functions such as surfing 
 and blowing bubbles. Most of the time you'll just use it to spin attack or pick up star bits.
 
  
  The controls are fantastic, but how is the game itself? Well instead of having individual 'worlds' 
 like in past games, with levels inside, you have individual galaxies (15 main ones total) that 
 have multiple planets with different themes. This not only makes room for a lot of creativity, 
 instead of being forced to always keep one theme for each world, but it also opens up great possibilities. 
 You will jump from planet to planet, some being overly large so it feels like playing the old games, 
 while some so small that you can run all the way around the planet in a matter of seconds. The 
 thing about these planets though is that each planet has its own gravity. This can be extremely 
 disorienting for a while. Oftentimes you can run off an edge, and instead of falling off and dying, 
 you will merely run around the edge to the bottom of the 'platform'. Walking upside-down, which 
 happens often, can be very strange, but it definately adds a whole new level of depth and craziness 
 to the series. Sometimes you will even have areas that have gravity that can be manipulated, which 
 will add to the puzzles and make things interesting.
  
  Because of all this, the game tends to retain a very fresh feel throughout the whole experience, 
 and nothing will really feel the same, even when you are obtaining multiple stars in the same galaxy 
 (the Star system is the same as it was in MArio 64 and Mario Sunshine, you have each star being 
 a 'level', where you have an objective and you must complete it, in that particular world) . Usually 
 each star leads you off to another part of the galaxy, so you won't really be stuck seeing the 
 same places over and over again. There is no shortage of originality in this game, and there is 
 no shortage of nostalgia either. You will stomp on Goombas. You will stomp Koopas and pick up their 
 shells to throw at others. You will get a Fire Flower and shoot fireballs. And you WILL fight Bowser. 
 All that being said, the balance between old and new is great.
  
  Speaking of power-ups, the blend of a couple old ones along with the new ones is GREAT. All of 
 the new power-ups are awesome (though I don't like one of them, it is still well done) , and playing 
 with a couple of the older ones in 3D is blissful (Fire Flower anyone?) . There is no shortage of 
 fun to be had, and the great originality and creative put into each galaxy will definately reel 
 you in, regardless of how much of a Mario fan you are. My one complaint in the gameplay department 
 is that the Overworld (the Observatory) is not nearly as fun to explore as Isle Delfino and Peach's 
 Castle was. Most of it is very straightforward, and even after you unlock a special mode of trasnportation 
 in the Overworld, it won't be very fun. That is a minor qualm I have though.
  
  I should mention that there are a lot of old and new enemies in this game, all well made and all 
 well placed. To top it off, all of the bosses are absolutely glorious and will have you wanting 
 to play them over and over again, especially the final battle (despite its lack in difficulty) .
 
  
  The game looks absolutely stunning. There is no way of getting around it, it looks great. The detail, 
 the vibrant colors, the motifs in each themed environ, the polish, it just stands out as being 
 magnificent. It makes wonderful use of the Wii hardware, and I have honestly only spotted a few 
 jaggies here and there, nothing big though. This game gives the technically challenged Wii something 
 to be immensely proud of. Sure, this is no Crysis, but its style makes it look just as good as 
 Crysis.
  
  The sound. Heh, Nintendo really needs to get out of this box they are in. No voice acting is ok 
 when you don't have characters talking. And in this game, you don't have a lot of talking, but 
 when it is there it is extremely frustrating to watch the character's lips move while you have 
 to read the text. Still, talking is minimal so it is generally OK. Mario's regular noises are there, 
 and sound just as wacky as ever. The sound effects themselves are absolutely great, though it might 
 be a tad bit too nostalgic at times, it overall sounds great. The Wii Remote is made good use of 
 also, with no problems with bad sound quality and faded sounds (like some other games *cough*Twilight 
 Princess*cough*) .
  
  The main thing that stands out in the sound department is the music. It is absolutely brilliant. 
 All of the new tunes sound beautiful and the remixes of old toons brin back blissful flashbacks 
 of the good old days. Luckily, the remixes are not very often, and instead the game relies a lot 
 more on its brilliantly composed new soundtrack.
  
  To make things even better, the game will last you a very long time. It has 120 Stars for you to 
 obtain like the other games (well... kind of... but no spoilers here) , and each star is unique in 
 its own way. You only need 60 stars to beat the game, but the game is so fun you will likely find 
 yourself getting the other stars just for fun. There is also this comet system that adds interesting 
 situations to normal scenarios (like timed runs, races with 'cosmic mario', or fighting bosses 
 with only 1 health) . To make things better, the game cannot even be completed 100% before beating 
 the game first, in which case you unlock a new comet for each galaxy that requires you to run around, 
 exploring every nook of the galaxy in order to collect 100 coins. It may sound tedious, but it 
 is in fact quite fun. To top it off, there is an unlockable game mode at the end (can't say much 
 without spoiling) , that will definately add a lot of replay value and is definately fun. Not only 
 that, but this is just one of those games where you will just pick up again, just to play a level 
 you really enjoyed, just because it is fun and nothing else.
  
  There is also a neat little co-op element, where 2nd player can stun enemies, pick up star bits 
 and shoot star bits, which allows a 2nd player to enjoy watching, but also get in on the action 
 a little too.
  
  In the end, this is NOT a game that should be missed. If you own a Wii, then there should be no 
 reason for you to pass up on this beautiful gem of a game. I might even be bold and say that this 
 is Mario's best experience yet, with it's excessive innovation and originality (and that's a stretch, 
 because I REALLY like Mario World 2) . Either way, don't hesitate, just buy this. Enjoy.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Graphics: 10/10
  Sound: 9/10
  Value: 10/10
  
  OVERALL: 10/10 (9.75/10.0) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petey3
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Ahh what can we say about super mario galaxy that isn't possitive. Well nothing. Super Mario Galaxy 
 is simply the best game out for the wii as of now. The storyline is fantastic and is easy to get 
 involved in. The controls were surprisingly good. Mario was easy to manuvere and his attacks were 
 simple to control. The game also has great use of the wii mote. When you move the remote mario 
 does a spin attack that confuses certain enemies. You also have control of a star shaped cross 
 hair that allows you to shot star bits at enemies. Super mario galaxy was also a very long game. 
 It takes about 20 hours to beat the simple part of the game (60 stars) but at least 40-50 hours 
 to collect all of the stars. There were tons of boss fights and all of them were kind of difficult 
 especially when you have to fight them without getting hurt. The only problem i have with this 
 game is the stars are a little easy to get. I think there were only 5 stars that took some to time 
 to get but other then that there was no challenge. But when you play the game the first time collecting 
 each star is fun and challenging in its own way. Besides once you beat the game 100% you can start 
 from the beginning and play super luigi galaxy. Yes you can play as luigi which was cool (finally 
 he gets some play time) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mugen_tha_dream
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Mario 64 was a statement from nintendo saying look at my big 64. Now with mario galaxies they can 
 say watch me play with my wii. Those statements arent the most appropriat or maybe not even remotley 
 funny but o well. A great game this is. Mario has his spin jump wich destroys enemies among shooting 
 himself planet to planet. Triple jumps, wall jumps mario still got it. For 20 years hes been jumpin 
 maybe more maybe theres no limit to how many pokemon found on this planet. Sorry. The story now 
 is that bowser stole peaches castle again (paper mario people) and is now on a multi galaxy war 
 fest. He talks in native growling and toads say hi. OKAY. Graphics superb best on wii and all the 
 nostalgic sounds and whatnot are da bizomb. This time theres another lady (mario is quite the mac 
 daddy) named........ i cant remember but thats not important. Theres little star things that like 
 to eat star bits wich seem to be important and sometimes explode into other planets. Exciting. 
 Well it is and go get this game now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drumkid900
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  Wow! This game is gold. Anyone who owns a wii and doesn't own this game is not worthy of holding 
 the title "Wii-Owner". This game blew away everything I knew about great video-games. Probably 
 the thing I love most about this game is that I'm just a little over halfway through completing 
 the game (already beat the story) and I feel like I did after completing Loz: Tp and Mp3. This game 
 is LONG. When I first got it I thought I'd fly through it and be done within a week but now I can't 
 picture myself ever completing the game, it's just too vast. Now let's talk about the game itself. 
 The physics in this game are just unbelievable. You're circumnavigating planets in literally seconds, 
 and at normal running speed. You jump from planet to planet like its no big deal and the camera 
 follows you perfectly without leaving you unprotected for a second. Speaking of planets, the artistic 
 style in this game is unbelievable. Vivid colors and curved lines make the environment feel like 
 wonderland. Even the enemies are appealing. Mario himself and the other characters are just unbelievably 
 awesome. I've never played a Mario game before but I have SSBM and have seen him before and he 
 is upgraded perfectly. I could go on and on with praise for this game but I don't want to bore 
 you and you will see all the greatness of this game for yourself when you buy it (which you will) . 
 The only bad thing about this game is that you'll get to a point where you may get frustrated and 
 will want to stop. However, this is not horrible because it's around the same point you would complete 
 other games and it always leaves you with something to come back to. All in all, this game is purely 
 amazing in everyway even without ps3 graphics. Look at the 2007 Gamespot game of the year if you're 
 not convinced about buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebazel1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 11:04 pm PT
Review:  I don't want to type endless paragraphs repeating what so many other reviews have said. I just 
 thought I'd voice my opinion for people who wanted to read a review that isn't a perfect 10. 
 
  
  Simply put, Super Mario Galaxy is a wonderful game that is a must-own for the Wii. I can hardly 
 argue against that fact. However, I do feel that as a true sequel to Mario 64 it doesn't add enough 
 to the genre of platformers and in fact is almost a slight step backwards. 
  
  Let me explain. Galaxy's take on gravity is definitely unprecedented in this type of game and adds 
 a flavor to Mario that we've never seen. But it comes at a price. The worlds in Galaxy, though 
 extremely varied, are often no where near as creative as the level designs in Mario 64 were. In 
 fact, there are no actual worlds in Galaxy, rather there are courses or levels set within worlds.
 
  
  Unlike Mario 64 that gave you huge and sometimes limitless stages to explore blindly and at your 
 whim, Galaxy employs a system where you choose to hunt down a specific star and the design of the 
 level changes depending on that star's location. Basically, each star has its own level, and as 
 a result each level or 'world' is never the same. Now you might say that's a great use of variety 
 and an addition of flavor, and yes it does indeed work with a lot of the mini game type levels. 
 However, often you'll find yourself playing very linear levels that are basically on track, almost 
 like NiGHTS, and you can't deviate from them unless the level design allows you to. 
  
  Mario 64 employed a similar choose the star to get tactic, but rarely did that completely close 
 off the entire stage and force you down a one way path without any exploration or way to deviate. 
 Stars in Galaxy are almost like finish lines, goals, endpoints for getting to the end of a designated 
 level, rather than rewards for exploring the stage and figuring out how to get the star.
  
  Remember the huge water platform stage in Mario 64 with the submerged city (whose entrance was 
 surrounded by a huge cage) in the corner that you could only reach with the cannon that was on 
 the other side of the stage? A level like that forced you to explore that stage and find out a 
 way to get to that submerged city. There were no obvious pointers or railings that said go to the 
 cannon over there! In Galaxy, the path to the cannon and the city and the star would be cleanly 
 laid out. And though you'd have to do some great platforming to get to the star, it wouldn't have 
 the same feeling of satisfaction.
  
  I'd be lying if I said I didn't enjoy Galaxy and find it sometimes dastardly tricky. But it felt 
 more like I was playing 120 mini stages than 20 (approximately) worlds with stars hidden in them. 
 I also enjoyed exploring the castle and castle grounds in Mario 64. The observatory is a great 
 hub but other than a few 1up mushrooms hides really no secrets or point of looking around.. even 
 after you get Mario flying you wonder is there anywhere to fly I couldn't have gotten to before..
 
  
  In summary, technically and gamplay-wise a wonderful game, but Galaxy fails to capture the spirit 
 of exploring huge worlds the way it's 64 counterpart did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princeofshapeir
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is not only the greatest Mario game ever made; it's the greatest Wii game to 
 grace the console. Although the Wii is still a toddler of a console, I simply cannot see any other 
 game in its coming years that can hope to surpass it. 
  
  The gameplay in Galaxy is its strong point, of course. This is, after all, a Mario game. However, 
 brand-new elements such as shaking the Wii Remote to spin Mario, tilting the controller to catch 
 some waves on a Sting Ray and roll around on a ball, and the large expanse of brand-new costumes 
 that Mario can experiment with make this a Mario title like no other. Flying through the cosmos 
 from launch star to launch star is simply breathtaking and beautiful, which leads us to another 
 of Galaxy's strong-points; the graphics.
  
  The Wii isn't known for graphical power, but Galaxy blows away the misconceptions of the Wii being 
 a Gamecube with a motion-sensing controller. It's simply a beautiful game. Cartoony visuals mix 
 with artistic flair to create such an eye-popping game that rivals even 360 and PS3 titles. Galaxy's 
 incredibly epic musical score is one you'll want to store on your iPod, as well; Mario games have 
 been known for whimsical little tunes that don't sound very epic, but the songs here sound like 
 they were taken straight from a big-budget Hollywood movie. 
  
  You've probably heard enough of this phenomenal game, anyway, so I won't waste your time any further. 
 I will end with this, though; buy Galaxy. It's the best game of this generation so far, hands-down. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kcwsk8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  The game is just like all the other Mario games we have come to love. Peach is Kid-napped by Bowser, 
 Mario finds stars to save her. This time Mario takes off into space. It is a wonderful game for 
 Mario veterans and beginners. With the wii remote the controls are simple. Spin by spinning the 
 wii remote, A to jump, move with nunchuck, and B to shoot star bits which you can collect through 
 the game and use to fire a enemies. All in all Super Mario Galaxy is a game you definitely should 
 look into if you enjoy going on adventures. If you are a kid, teen, or adult you will enjoy this 
 game. It is clean and does not consist of any inappropriate things for young children. Also once 
 you finish the game by getting 120 stars you will be able to play as Luigi. After getting 120 stars 
 with Luigi you unlock one more Galaxy. I that does not motivate you to play then I wil tell you 
 that you are missing out on one of the absolute greatest games of all time. Great job Nintendo 
 for creating such a successful game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: W8I8Z
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  The newest Mario game that goes above and beyond all others. Now at first you might think... oh 
 its just another "save the Princess" game... but not this one. Even though Bowser does kidnap the 
 princess there is so much more to the game. You have to collect a bunch of power stars in order 
 to reactivate the Observatory and fly to the center of the Galaxy in order to stop Bowser.
  
  Lets make this review simple and go step by step: Graphics: The vast array of colors truely 
 brings this game to life. The Wii shows off its ability to light up a room and show you that a 
 game doesnt have to be dark and shadowy to be fun to play. Each world you fly too is overwhelming 
 in color and style. Plus the mix of colors is not just random... it seems to be an organized chaos 
 of crisp and smooth color.
  
  Gameplay: The style and movement is very fluid. I thought there would be a vast quantity of difficult 
 jumps and moves but it wasn't like that at all.
  Most of the worlds were easy to manage but also had their own quirks. What was impressive to me 
 was how each world made you use every ability you had in order to get the Star. Whether it was 
 jumping, flying or stomping. The puzzles weren't that difficult to solve so thats why I felt the 
 game was too easy. You only needed 60 stars to beat it out of 120 available. What made this game 
 great was the fun factor. Every world was FUN to play... not just another chore or Star Hunt. 
 
  
  There is so much to talk about this game and I dont wanna bore you with details. The game is really 
 addicting and extremely fun to play. Each world will bring new adventures and puzzles to solve. 
 The races and Comet challenges will keep you on your toes for countless hours of fun. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FredrickGinger
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  In this Mario game you start off going to princess peach's castle for a party. You know what happens 
 next even if you havn't played it, bowser shows up.
  then he kidnaps her. Mario wakes up on a planatoid which he then talks to the owner of an observatory, 
 she asks you to collect stars for her observatory when you have enough stars you can travel to 
 the center of the universe and rescue princess peach. This is the best wii game and you will be 
 on it for ages trying to collect all the stars. If you have a wii you should buy this game. when 
 you get all 120 stars there might be a surprise waiting for you.... The graphics on this game are 
 surprisingly excellant and there is the original sound track from the old mario games. this game 
 makes good use of the wii remote and numchuck. why are you reading my review, buy the game stupid. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesemonkey199
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 3:59 am PT
Review:  Anyway enough talking like yoda crap, this game is awesome.
  
  Best Wii Game, most people are calling it, and I think it's not the best but it's damn close, amazing 
 visuals, awesome level design and all wrapped up in a nice little package.
  
  it's also got a good story, loads of levels, hidden stuff for replay value and all the collectibles, 
 lots people will go for the 120 stars. in terms of presentation It really is the best looking wii 
 game so far and the best mario game since super mario 64. the gameplay is brilliant and the gravity 
 is one of the most weird things i have ever seen in a game and is guaranteed to screw with your 
 head.
  
  The controls are brilliant, the music is fresh and new while still being quite retro, the game 
 can also be quite challenging later on and the two player is quite interesting but probably won't 
 be everyones cup of tea.
  
  anyway enough of my talking and heres the situation, if you have a wii then buy this game, if you 
 don't have a wii then go buy one and a copy of this game, simple as that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: backfromdagrave
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Are you 8? Are you 18? Dosen't matter. This game is FUN. Easy to play but hard to master, this 
 game will lead you from an amateur, to a pro. This game will fascinate you with it's amazing scenery. 
 As said in the review deck, you collect stars... again. Never gets boring, eh? No. It dosen't. New 
 power ups to annihilate your enemies, new stars to test your skillz, and, of course, new ways to 
 utterly destroy Bowser... who wouldn't love it? Oh, and if you fall, you'll get sucked into a black 
 hole... yeah... don't do that. Gravity switches, and there are many... mini-"planets" that you walk 
 upside down on. That'll be fun to learn... But, seriously. As I classified this, it is a masterpiece. 
 Truly amazing. Just. Plain. Fun. If you HATE Mario, don't get this. Neither rent nor buy. If you 
 thought Mario was..."childish", rent this first. Your sure to buy it. If you "kinda" like Mario, 
 rent it. If you like Mario any more than that, just buy it. (If you picky, rent it.) I really don't 
 see more than 1-2 ways someone could hate Super Mario Galaxy... it's such a good game. Seriously. 
 I was SO addicted to it, I played about half a day, quit, and then played about half a day AGAIN. 
 I REALLY don't want to spoil it, so i'll put this here... (ONLY look here if you REALLY want to 
 look, don't blame me for spoiling it...) http://www. youhide. com /nph-info. pl/00011 0A/ 687474703a2f2 
 f73656c 666e6f74657 32e6e65742f656564 39366 53436326 3386434663836 363462653 2353865 64623730 62313038
 
  (split it only cause of the 25-limit thing...)
  So, anyway... this game is awesome. And that's why I rated it... a 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KnightNui
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy- Exlcusive Knight-Nui Review
  
  Well here we are. At last, we're holding the game of the year in our hands. If, like us, your daily 
 routine was to wake up, eat the odd mushroom, check for a Mario-related Smash Bros. Update, then 
 poor over screenshots of Mario's Galactic quest all morning, you would know how special it is to 
 be holding the box in your hands. And y'know what? It's even more special to play
  
  See, even if we have starred at every single pixel on every single picture for hours on end, threes 
 still stuff we missed. An awful lot. Blimey, how much did we not realise:? We missed nothing from 
 what we saw. Just Nintendo rightly told us not to look.
  
  So we'll say this. We'll go over the game at first, and try to avoid spoilers, but when we do say 
 one, we recommend you avoid reading it. Mario galaxy relies on surprises, and while threes nothing 
 like trying them out for yourself, it's not as good as the overall feeling of not knowing what's 
 around the corner
  
  Anyway, think back to Super Mario 64's Near-perfect platform glory. We say near-perfect. If you're 
 wondering why only "Near" Perfect, we'll let you in on a little secret. Galaxy is way, way better. 
 It takes 64's formula and runs with it, and no one can keep up.
  
  Galaxy is a light year ahead of the competition. Think Ratchet & Clank: Tools of Destruction was 
 the most amazing Platformer ever, PS3 Fanboys  You're a long, long way from the truth. Blimey, 
 comparing this' score to R&C's 85% isn't good enough. Playing the two shows that a plumber's better 
 them a killer animals and a robot put together. And it doesn't stop there with game's it's better 
 then, Halo 3? Tiny. Assassin's Creed? Booor-ing! Call of Duty 4? Looks like a single Starbit compared 
 to the mighty Mario.
  
  The actual game plays far better then anything else realised in the last 15 Years. In fact, the 
 only Platformer that could ever hold it's own against the perfected jumping skills on show here 
 is Super Mario World, previously the highlight of Mario's career.
  
  The actual Space-rock hopping is solid enough as a Bloke in dunagres, but it gets even more fun 
 as someone in a Bee suit, or being dead and reincarnated as a ghosty, or, even better, *SPOLIER! 
 SPOILER! SPOILER!* becoming Ice Mario. (Since we're in the Spoiler zone, we might as well go over 
 it) When you're ice Mario, you can freeze platforms to go over. It looks and plays so well that 
 when the time limit finishes you'll be deadly upset, but even more after that '?' Coin. *SPOILER 
 OVER* Theres also the return of Fire Mario, as you've problay heard. The Remote flings a fire ball, 
 and while he's nothing like he was before, he's fun to play as, none the less.
  
  
  One of the best things about the new suits is how there not overused. While it would have been 
 nice for the Boo suit to appear outside of the one galaxy, we're glad the Fire Flower's aren't 
 poping up al the time like before, or that We're not becoming *SPOILER* Mario ever other level.
 
  
  But actualy that's not even the thing that's got us most excited when playing Galaxy. That honor 
 goes to the refrences to previous Mario games (Plus previous trailer) from the time we saw a Goomba 
 and yelled "YES!!!" to shouting "KAMEK'S BACK!" At the sighting of a Magikoopa. And it doesn't 
 stop with the enemys. We loved the Toads in particular, with the 'Brigader Toads' forming as a 
 sort-of Toad rescue squad that explores the galaxy and turns up on various occasions to help you 
 find the star.
  
  *SPOILERS IN PARAGRAGH*: Plus, tucked away in the Hanuted Galaxy, is a certain Mario charctar who's 
 been evily left out of all previous 3D Mario games Yes, Luigi is back! We can't get enough of 
 him popping up behind Mario when he's doing the classic "You got a Star!" sequance
  
  Blimey, we could bang on all day about Galaxy. Theres that much to it. It's plat forming at it's 
 highest form. Forget that Mario World, the galaxy is a whole lot bigger
  
  99% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jareddra
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  I as a gamer have been waiting a long time for a game like this. I thought a game this good would 
 never come again. I have not felt this excited about a game in a long long long time. This is truely 
 the best game that I have ever had the pleasure of playing and I am truely thankful. Super Mario 
 Galaxy has the funnest gameplay and superb graphics. The water effects are extrordinary. The boss 
 battles are out of this world and my favorite mario suit is Bee mario. I love all the galaxies 
 they are all so fun to play. This game is a marvel and I hope that their will be more games like 
 this in the future. Their is only one word to describe this game and that is  
 If you want the best game ever made then go out and get this game  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Intro: I'm not going to explain how much I love Mario. If you're curious then go read some of my 
 other Super Mario reviews. FYI, I love super mario so much that I have a 8-bit Mario tattoo; eat 
 it. Lets put it this way, this game will rock your socks off, literally. 
  
  Graphics: There are only two real contenders for best graphics on the wii so far!! Metroid Prime 
 Corruption and Super Mario Galaxy. Based on the overall art style and technical achievement I can 
 easily say that Mario is better. Everything looks, animates and feels extremely realistic in a 
 sweet glossy way. Mario looks incredible, he moves like any fat italian should; even bowser and 
 his crazy minions looks as detailed and amazingly sweet as Mario's character model. Personally, 
 I think the environments really take the cake over Metroid, I know the overall planet structure 
 is just an illusion to try and extend the scope of the levels but they execute this illusion so 
 perfectly that I can't help but fall in love with it. Galaxies have tons of detail and look fantastic, 
 the only negative I can possibly think of isn't with mario but in other games. How can this game 
 look so amazing in both a technical and artist way and other games like RED STEEL can look worse 
 than a pile of diarrhea. 
  
  Features: If you need me to tell you that Mario is a single player own experience than you have 
 been living under a rock in Alabama. Mario better always be an offline experience, period!!
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is amazing; instead of focusing on a water pump this time around mario 
 is back to his roots, platforming. It isn't just normal Mario platforming, the overall theme is 
 based around gravity and manipulation of different environments. Mario still has his normal abilities 
 like jumping and changing into specific mushroom outfits like Fireball Mario, Ice Mario, Spring 
 Mario and Bumblebee Mario. Like Mario 64, these powers are level based so for example: in the first 
 galaxy mario can use his bumblebee outfit, even if a enemy doesn't knock you off the outfit, Mario 
 will naturally lose the ability when he reaches the star. Beside these physical traits the user 
 can use the Wii pointer to pick up the new currency in Super mario galaxy called star bits. The 
 fundamental principle of jumping and platforming is just as solid as it's N64 counterpart. My ownly 
 complaint about the added Wiimote mechanic; instead of pressing a button you wave the wiimote to 
 make mario do his main attack, spinning; is that it feels needless. I don't see any reason why 
 the Wiimote mechanic is there, a button press would have been just as effective. Don't get me wrong 
 the Wiimote responds perfectly. Even the monkey ball type levels work perfectly on the wiimote. 
 This latter mechanic makes sense because using the Wiimote is essentially the best option for control. 
 The user holds the Wiimote vertically, using the remote like a joystick. I haven't played a game 
 that has executed the "wii" mechanics so perfectly as SMG did. Overall the gameplay is nothing 
 short of perfect and really goes so show how much mario has grown from his previous adventures.
 
  
  Conclusion: In the end, mario has always been super awesome, I don't see that ever changing. Call 
 me a fanboy, loser face wannabe I don't care, SMG is the reason why people should get a Wii. Super 
 Mario Galaxy is by far the best game on the Wii at least until Brawl comes out and than we will 
 see what happens. Until then, continue to rock out with Mario and his sweet ass adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xMeHRuNeSDaGoNx
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy, So I finally had time to actually finish this game. And let me tell you, i 
 was impressed. Super Mario Galaxy has the same concept of the previous 3d mario games like mario 
 64 and mario sunshine ... collecting stars. At first i thought it was a good idea in the beginning 
 of SMG and then i guess i thought it was just dying out and i lost interest little by little.
 
  
  Graphics - 10.0 - I've never seen anything so glorious from a nintendo system! I think this is 
 their best job in terms of graphics since ... EVER!
  
  Sound - 9.0 - ahh nintendo with their wacky and silly music. also, the Classic tunes will appeal 
 to almost everyone!
  
  Gameplay - 9.0 - Good 'ol mario, same moves ... different platform
  
  Value - 9.5 - This game 
 is pretty long ... 
  
  Overall - 9.0 - it is definitely a must buy for mario fans and even mario haters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luis-Fox
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2008 6:04 am PT
Review:  This has to be the game of the decade. It's graphics are amazing, the gameplay is amazing, it's 
 all amazing. The thing about Galaxy is, that whatever you're doing, there's always something else 
 you have to do. 
  
  However, EVERY game has to have some bad points. For example, the biggest bad point: It has to 
 end eventually. There are a couple of Glitches as well.
  
  When you are playing then it is very easy at some points, but incredibly difficult at some points ( 
 Dreadnought Galaxy! ) . The most annoying thing is how whenever you lose all your lives, you are 
 sent back to the main menu and have to select your file again...
  
  One of the most annoying cliches in games, is how you have a fiery world, and an icy world. What 
 have Nintendo done to variate this? By combining the two together in the Freezeflame Galaxy! Genius!
 
  
  Galaxy is an amazing game. If you see one up on the store shelves, buy it. NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan_scfc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 4:09 am PT
Review:  Because I was getting my Nintendo Wii for Christmas this was the game I was looking forward to 
 the most. Surpisingly I had never played a Mario game before. Anyway, to the game...
  
  Some of the game are genius. They use the gravitation system well and it's great fun. The galaxy 
 theme fits perfectly. It's gd how you get to use Fire Mario, Ice Mario and others to complete puzzles. 
 It's not a particulary hard game maybe could be made a bit harder. One thing I dont understand 
 is why everyone says how good the graphics. i dont think the graphics are any good at all but are 
 the best on the Wii. I do quite easily get bored of this game. Whether it's because i find it hard 
 to get time to play it I dont know. But i find myself bored after a bit. One factor where my Xbox 
 360 games lack is how long the game is. I currently have 45 stars but i've heard it's 120 the maximum 
 which is great. 
  
  The actual gameplay though is amazing, It has fantastic gameplay with fun boss battles, fun levels, 
 genius designs. But it doesnt engage me like others game do. Still a top game though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abstract_Choas
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  This game is awe inspiring. It delivers the powerhouse graphics that Wii owners have been begging 
 for. Not to mention the original orchestrated soundtrack for the entire game is beautiful. Galaxy 
 utilizes the Wiimote without abusing it, bringing a perfect balance to gameplay. The driving force 
 of this game comes from the vast number of different galaxys and planets, each have its own unique 
 set of characteristics. The physics can be a absolute joy to play around in, jumping from planet 
 to planet just to see where the gravitational fields will take you. The length of this game can 
 really be decided by the player. There are a total of 120 stars, with only 60 stars need to complete 
 the game. Anyone who has a Wii must own this game. Anyone who wants to get a Wii, should buy one 
 for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luigismansion101
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 12, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, this is a great game, but it has many flaws that hamper the experience. As 
 always, bowser has kidnapped peach, which has happened in about every mario game. This formula 
 is getting a bit old for me. After 15 years of the same story it is time for something new. This 
 game has amazing graphics for the wii, probably the best graphics the wii has offered. After getting 
 about 35 stars, I felt like I had seen about all the game had to offer, but I've kept playing for 
 a bit, but it is too repetitive to warrant getting all 120 stars just to unlock luigi. Luigi should 
 have been an optional character from the beginning. This is the same old mario game that we have 
 come to know, just in a new location. There comes a time when the same formula gets old though, 
 and it is time that they do something extremely different with the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bruno_fmenedes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 12:22 pm PT
Review:  --------------------------
  SCORE: ( ( ( 9.5 ) ) ) - (in a scale of 0.5 increments, without a formula)
  --------------------------
 
  Gameplay - (10)
  Graphics -- (10)
  Sound ------ ( 9 )
  Value ------- ( 9 )
  --------------------------
  
  THE GOOD:
  - The controls are smooth, extremely responsive 
 and feel right once you get used to them;
  - Plenty of gameplay variety with the right amount of very well implemented fresh ideas and the 
 right amount of familiar platforming gameplay - all refined almost to perfection;
  - Simple and intuitive use of the Wii remote that makes the experience more engrossing than it 
 would have been with a regular controller;
  - Some of the best and more diverse level designs of any 3D platformer, that are able to tap the 
 inherent potential of almost all the gameplay ideas presented, especially those related to gravity, 
 physics and pure platforming, and have many well thought-out, always enjoyable and never confusing 
 puzzles;
  - Beautiful, charming and vibrant art design, that's more then the sum of its parts: terrific use 
 of saturated colors; great animations and character designs; outstanding, crazy and varied level 
 designs with an incredible amount of details; and a camera that takes a cinematic perspective;
 
  - The game is also technically impressive, with some neat especial effects and physics, an amazing 
 draw distance and some stunning particle effects and running always at a smooth 60 frames-per-second 
 - and all this makes the art design standout even more;
  - Modernized and orchestrated classic Mario tunes and some even more amazing new musics, really 
 help the game to be more engaging and provide the right amount of nostalgic flavor for those who 
 have been following the plummer since the NES;
  - It's a big platforming adventure, with lots of stages that are fun to explore and tons of stars 
 to find and collect;
  - It has an incredible pacing, especially for the more experienced gamers, because there's always 
 some action happening on screen, it's always evident where you're supposed to go or what you're 
 supposed to do, there are multiple mid-level check-points from where you restart after losing a 
 life and the loading times are minimal and very well disguised;
  - The combination of gameplay variety, accurate controls, incredible pacing, wonderful level designs 
 and a phenomenal audio-visual presentation, gives the game a considerable amount of replay value, 
 especially for those who love Mario-platformers (and the game does a good job encouraging you to 
 replay it) .
  
  THE BAD:
  - The "just one more star" addictiveness could be hard to control for some gamers;
  - A couple 
 of gameplay mechanics are a bit overused: the bee suit and swimming or riding-a-shell underwater;
 
  - The main story is too simple and predictable and the Rosalinda's story is told in a not very 
 entertaining way (but the main story is also too minimal to be considered a main component of the 
 game and the Rosalinda's story is optional) ;
  - A couple of gameplay mechanics are a bit underused: the boo suit and the "unstable ground" (used 
 in the awesome "Matter Splatter Galaxy") ;
  - Half the levels are easy to beat (although still very fun) , making this platforming adventure 
 not as big as it could have been (probably won't take you more than 30-35 hours to collect all 
 the 120 stars) .
  
  FINAL WORDS:
  Super Mario Galaxy is not a "Revolutionary" game, because it doesn't creates a completely new way 
 to play a platformer, but almost does that by presenting a lot of cool new ideas. In my honest 
 opinion, this is the best 3D platformer ever created (yes, it's better than Super Mario 64, by 
 a narrow margin) , because it makes the best use ever of the platforming gameplay created in Mario 
 64, because of the awesome new gameplay ideas it brings to the genre and because it has some of 
 the best level designs of any 3D platformer. SMGalaxy was the third-person game I enjoyed more 
 playing since "The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time", although it wasn't the most challenging or 
 the biggest one.
  
  SMGalaxy is also the only 3D platformer I decided to play a second time (I'm going to catch every 
 star again!) - this alone could be an indicator of how much fun I had playing this incredible game. 
 In the end, SMGalaxy might not be a "Perfect" game, but it's a remarkable package of polished and 
 varied gameplay, wonderful and innovative level designs and a phenomenal audio-visual presentation 
 - a true Masterpiece.
  
  ESPECIAL NOTE:
  Alex Navarro's review is so awesome to read and has so much clarity, that I couldn't end this review 
 without posting some of his quotes:
  
  "Here is the game that Wii owners have been pining for, a game that has tons of appeal for both 
 the less experienced player and the longtime gamer. A game that deftly combines accessibility and 
 challenge, all wrapped up in a package that's both deep and addictive. Super Mario Galaxy is all 
 of this and more. It is simultaneously one of Mario's best adventures and a game that doesn't require 
 fandom of the portly plumber's previous engagements to appreciate. The sheer quality of Mario Galaxy's 
 wonderful level designs, tight controls, and brilliant presentation is the sort of thing that just 
 about anyone who loves gaming should be able to appreciate, and that many will fall head-over-heels 
 for.
  
  ( ... )
  
  When all is said and done, the thing that really makes Super Mario Galaxy such a standout game 
 isn't the fact that it's another Mario game, but the fact that it doesn't even need to be a Mario 
 game to be successful. Sure, it's got all the nostalgic flavor Mario fans would want, with the 
 updated soundtrack, familiar foes, and various other Mario-related bric-a-brac scattered throughout 
 the adventure, but the game never leans on these nostalgic aspects as a crutch. It instead puts 
 the whole of its focus on its gameplay design, and with good reason. You could probably swap in 
 just about any other characters from practically any other franchise, and this would still be a 
 phenomenally fun game. That it layers all these memorable characters and components on top of that 
 phenomenal design just makes it all the sweeter. If ever there were a must-own Wii game, Super 
 Mario Galaxy is it." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic_X_Link10
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  All right Super Mario Galaxy, was it worth the wait?
  
  My answer is a big "YES", This game offers many things that could keep many fans going and going 
 for more time than ever. Having almost the same formulas as Super Mario 64, but with even more 
 gameplay (no spoilers but with even more after you get all the stars with mario) , but this game 
 has incredible graphics, and the many galaxies and regions for you to explore is just amazing. 
 I can't believe in how much they got in here! Many secrets keep you itching to go forward, and 
 the controls are absolutly fantastic, one of the best. I got this game the first day, and I'm almost 
 done, but not quite. This game is definitly a must buy for everybody! There are no really huge 
 or even noticable flaws, only that some suits mario dows may be a little hard to control; but otherwise 
 this game is perfection.
  
  
  All-in-all, a must buy for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hungry_luma64
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  This game was awsome. Really cool. I think its best so far in the mario series. But if you played 
 super Mario64 and this one then you would probobly think that they both have similarities. For 
 example they both have the same concept where your in a big place that has different other places 
 that seperates into different levels. Sorry for being confusing. But in both games you collect 
 stars in each different level. Mario has to collect 121 stars in each game to complete each game. 
 Heres something different though in Galaxy after you collect 120 stars with mario, you get to be 
 Luigi. And after you complete 120 stars with Luigi you go back to mushroom kingdom and collect 
 the last star with each character. So basically in Galaxy you have to collect 121 stars 2 times. 
 Thats a lot of friggin stars. By the way all the levels are fun so I bet some people look foward 
 to do them the second time. Instead of Peach's castle yer on a huge ship that holds observatories 
 that take you to a lot of different galaxies. All of the living stars are called lumas who cherish 
 star bits which is there food. All lumas transform into something oneday. But sometimes there is 
 hungry lumas that need star bits to transform into something good like galaxies outside of the 
 observatories (Red luma) or a mushroom for mario (Blue luma) . And some hungry lumas transform into 
 secret planets in galaxies (still red) . Regular lumas come in a variety of colors. When you first 
 play....... the first 4 obsevatories have all easy stars to get but the galaxies get harder and 
 harder and the stars get harder to get. Some galaxies you will have to come back to bacause you 
 haven't unlocked the mission yet. There is also prankstar comets that do something to a galaxy 
 on a certain mission and if you complete the mission with the comet in effect you get a star. Prankstar 
 comets can do the following to galaxies: make it so you have to race with your shadow (mario or 
 luigi) , give you a time limit on completing a mission on a galaxy, and theres a lot of other things 
 they do. A LOT. Another hungry luma is near the first observatory . If you feed it the right amount 
 of star bits it will move the comets to different galaxies. So in conclusion you can tell this 
 is a good game just by reading this review. If you like the review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exiss
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Act I
  
  Whoa! I know what you're thinking. "Mario Galaxy MANAGES to outdo Sunshine? What gives!" Well, 
 they are certainly not tied as whole games, but certain elements that each has makes it superior 
 to the other, and the end result is two games that are more or less both worthy successors to Super 
 Mario 64. Let me break down the pros and cons of Super Mario Sunshine and Super Mario Galaxy for 
 you. 
  
  Super Mario Galaxy pros
  
  #1 The game is incredibly huge, with lots of galaxies and literally tons of planets in each. 
 
  
  #2 The graphics are stunning for a Wii game. Have you looked at the water? 
  
  #3 There are plenty of missions to accomplish and stars to collect, and each quest is unique and 
 presents the player with a variety of environments, enemies, and items to interact with. 
  
  #4 The controls are excellent and the less-is-more approach to motion-sensing is a real winner 
 here. 
  
  #5 The story is, well, storybook-like to an epic degree. This is the most dramatic Mario game ever 
 made, and I loved every minute of it. 
  
  #6 The music is excellent. Top notch. 
  
  #7 The sound effects are great too. The characters actually had some voices at times. 
  
  #8 
 Innovative, and yet still a Mario game at heart. 
  
  Cons
  
  #1 The graphics are not stunning by Xbox 360 and PS3 standards. Water has been done better already. 
 
  
  #2 The camera can be obnoxious or disorienting at times and takes getting used to. 
  
  #3 Coupled with the camera are the controls, which also take getting used to, but are very 
 well executed for the most part. 
  
  #4 Not a deep story, but this is Mario and that isn't expected. 
  
  #5 Depth is missing from 
 the galaxies. Each is wonderfully unique and has personality, but ends all too quickly. An element 
 of exploration has been lost as each galaxy presents all that it has to show rather quickly. 
 
  
  Super Mario Sunshine pros
  
  #1 Plenty of colorful worlds, all following an attractive summer beach theme.
  
  #2 Graphics 
 were excellent by standards held at the time between GameCube, Xbox, and PS2. Water was excellent. 
 
  
  #3 Lots of missions and goal variety, plenty of shine sprites to collect. Many different types 
 of enemies and items to interact with. 
  
  #4 Controls were solid, well-designed. 
  
  #5 Good camera at most all times. 
  
  #6 Music and sound effects were pleasant and varied.
 
  
  #7 Closely interconnected world added element of exploration. 
  
  #8 Fludd was an innovative concept, coupled with the emphasis on water. 
  
  Cons
  
  #1 
 Doesn't stray too far from one theme, unusual for a Mario game. 
  
  #2 Again, because theme is not strayed far from, most of the environments are relatively similar. 
 
  
  #3 Story was cheesy, semi-bizarre. "Mario has been framed as a vandal, goes to prison, and must 
 clean up an island resort with a water pump?" 
  
  #4 While innovative, Fludd and the use of water made Sunshine feel different from the other Mario 
 games. Different like Super Mario Bros. 2 feels different from 1 and 3. 
  
  #5 Certain mission types were repeated too often, became tedious. 
  
  Act II
  
  So while 
 Galaxy has the advantage of well-executed innovation in controls, graphics, size, and classic feel; 
 Super Mario Sunshine feels like a tighter, more detailed game with an emphasis on depth and exploration 
 in each of its worlds. Perhaps you are wondering why I am bringing a game that was released six 
 years ago into a review about a brand-new game. Well, since the release of Super Mario Sunshine 
 and the Paper Mario series, there has been an increasing trend created by Nintendo that has caused 
 their favorite plumber to stray further and further from his roots. Super Mario Galaxy is an exciting 
 game because it brings new life to the series, introduces new concepts, and plays similarly to 
 Super Mario 64, only with extensive upgrades. 
  
  Do not assume that my writing that Galaxy only just managed to de-throne Sunshine as best sequel 
 to Super Mario 64 makes it a weak game. Quite the opposite, Super Mario Galaxy is an amazing game 
 with absolutely huge replay value and a great sense of adventure. I mean to point out that, like 
 Sunshine, Galaxy suffers a bit under the weight of its innovation. Certain gamers may be turned 
 off by its controls, camera, and the exploration missing from each individual world that was so 
 rich and apparent in Super Mario 64 and even in Sunshine. But on a whole, Super Mario Galaxy is 
 perhaps the best the Wii has to offer as of late and should not be passed up by any means. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: trippola77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  This game deserves everything said about it. It might not be better than 64, but its still good.
 
  The good things about it are that you can have two players and that can be helpful. Its also fun 
 going crazy with gravity! Graphics are amazing for wii.
  It has a really good soundtrack. ( the old songs modernized) .
  The game lasts a long time.
  
 Levels are long and well designed.
  
  The only things wrong with the game is that it has too many new characters.
  The story isn't 
 all great either. At the beginning U. F. O s take princess peach away. Whats up with that??
  The bowser levels are way too easy.
  (exspecially the last one) .
  
  If you are looking for 
 a game to have fun with and last a long time Then this is the game you should  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RadBunny
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Once I heard about this game when before the wii was released I thought this might be a huge let-down. 
 Then Nov 12, 2007 I read a huge amounts of reviews. It was saying this game is a amazing, revolutionary. 
 So I had to check this game out. In my opinion after playing it for a majority of time I think 
 it may come close to amazing but a little short.
  
  Pros: Great Graphics (Best on wii so far)
  Smooth Controls
  Decent Gameplay
  Cons: Quite Easy
 
  Questionable Replay Value
  Boss Fights are Repetive and Some Levels
  
  
  The game starts out like most mario games. Peach gets kidnapped. (No surprise there) Your objective 
 is too save her, but to do so you must gather power stars to fuel your space station. To find these 
 power stars you must go to various galaxies. After getting a certain amount of stars new planets 
 will open up. Soon or later you will get enough to face the boss of that galaxy.
  
  All in all its a great game. For some people a rental for some people the next best thing. So I 
 do recommend playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonyMangtana
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 10, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is about as good as platformers have got, don't get me wrong. However, nothing 
 screams out to me with amazement. I'm not "wowed" by this game. The controls are excellent, and 
 everything fits together in the game nicely excluding the fact that it lacks any real challenge, 
 which is probably the key factor in the fact that I didn't score this game a 9 like everyone else 
 did. SMG was all that was expected, a very solid platform game which every can play and everyone 
 can enjoy. Solid, but not revolutionary or gripping me with amazement. I still wouldn't hold this 
 as the greatest game on the wii, with that being said it is still a very solid game, yes it is 
 the best platform game on the Wii, and yes despite the fact it lacks challenge and the "wow" factor, 
 it is still a very solid and enjoyable title with all the great mario characters in, which should 
 still grace itself in every wii-owners game collection.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer-XZ
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2008 11:50 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is a example of perfection. It is by far the greatest Mario game I've ever got 
 my hands on since 64, and believe me, I'm ABSOLUTELY NOT lying. You begin as good-old Mario runs 
 around the Mushroom Kingdom during it's star festival, and then out of the blue, Bowser comes in 
 and f'cks up the fun by kidnapping Princess Peach (for the freakin' 1,000,000,000,000 time!) and 
 lifts the entire castle into space. From then on, you hop from galaxy to galaxy with the help of 
 series newcomer Princess Rosalina and the lumas. The entire game's main hub is a space observatory, 
 where you go into a room that has a bunch of galaxies for you to explore and retrieve the power 
 stars from. The galaxies are amazing and fun to play in, including the bosses and the purple coin 
 missions, and the graphics are outstanding in Wii standards. Some of the game's moments are just 
 as memorable as 64, like the boss fight against a giant robot that you have to run up on one of 
 it's legs to defeat it, and even the game's ending (which I won't spoil) . Overall, SMG is perfect 
 for any Nintendo fan, Mario fan, any gamer at all who loves awesome adventure games. I'm glad to 
 see that Mario didn't lose his touch yet, and I hope he doen't anytime soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluffy912
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is a great buy for any Mario fan, but if you just like video games by themselves 
 it'll be a good experience but not one you'll remember for a long time. The first half of the game 
 is a blast, but then you start playing it less and less, and when you do sit down it doesn't hold 
 you like it did earlier. Minus that this IS the best Mario up to date, and if you don't think so, 
 well, um, yeah whatever your opinion (didn't want to trash anybody) . A couple cons are the multi 
 player is ok but it can get annoying because player 2 can make you jump and that can mess you up 
 in a million places. The design is really good, and the graphics are amazing, the best on the Wii, 
 at least until Super Smash Bros Brawl comes out. It's fun to play around with gravity, like jumping 
 and making it all the way around the planet, or jump up and then flip in mid air and land on a 
 totally different planet or sphere. All in all this is a really good game, and can be lots of fun, 
 it might not last forever but enough to keep your attention for at least 2 hours after you beat 
 it which will take a while unless your a video game junkie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthMstrChf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  This game is the game every Wii owner should own. From the level design to the visuals to the music. 
 The only bad thing is the camera that sometimes gets in the way. I don't really have much to say 
 about this game. Alex the great pretty much covered everything in his video reveiw. The story is 
 that your at this crazy festicval thing when Bowser rears his ugly head and stels Princess Peach. 
 So as you might have guessed you have to save her.
  
  Overall, great game. Only gripe I have is the camera. A Wii = Super Mario Galaxy. Or at least it 
 should. If you have this game sitting un-opened on your shelff, gathering dust, get it out and 
 play it. Now . Go. Why are you still reading thios review, go play Super Mario Galaxy! Wel as long 
 as your atill here, check out the video review. I'm one voice in a crowd of thousands, but what 
 Alex says goes.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigi487
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is the best game 2007 had to offer, and the best game on the Nintendo Wii. While 
 the story hasn't changed a bit in the last 20 years, you still have to rescue Princess Peach from 
 the evil clutches of the villainous Bowser, even if the story is the same, every Wii onwer should 
 have this game, no matter who you are. The game starts as Mario gets an invitation from Princess 
 Peach to come to the Star Festival to celebrate the passing of a comet, and she has something she 
 would like to give Mario, But as the festival gets going, Bowser comes in and rips Peach's castle 
 from the ground and taking it into space. Just like all other Super Mario games you have to get 
 stars to rescue Peach. Super Mario Galaxy has some of the best gameplay on the Wii, whether your 
 upside down on a planet, or beating the crap out of a dinosaur version of a Piranha Plant, you 
 are never doing the same thing over unless you want to. Now I'm not going to give away any spoilers 
 but if you beat the game with all 120 Power Stars you will get a very special surprise. In conclusion 
 pick up Super Mario Galaxy and prepare for your social life to be no more, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waelzleb
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Wow this game is really, really fun to play. Okay, the beginning of the game was actually boring 
 cause you had to keep talking and i was like wow this better pick up. But as soon as you pass through 
 the introduction it really does.
  
  The graphics arent amazing but they are just how you would want a Mario game to look like. You 
 still are reading but you will here them talk a little which fits perfectly. The level designs 
 and affects on gravity and new villains are un-imaginable, you just wonder how some one could think 
 of all this.
  
  The gameplay is an absolute ONE HUNDRED nothing is wrong with it pick up the game and play and 
 you will no what i mean.
  
  Normally i would give the game a 9.9 but since the stupid new rating system which i would like 
 if it didnt go by 5's. It lost a point because of the story line is the same and they should make 
 like a new a main villain. Maybe you and Bowser would have to team up? So yeah in the future that 
 needs to be worked on. So ill round it up to a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conqurer6493
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  This is a pretty different game, nintendo took quite a chance in making it. the acutal gameplay 
 has hardly changed from the previous 3-D mario titles. the flips jumps and bounces all still look 
 the same, but feel more natural in a good and bad way. it's definetly not as hard as other games, 
 but makes up for that in what I find to be euphorically fun levels, out of concept. the boss fights 
 are repetitive, though the levels leading up to the encounters themselves are not. as for re-use 
 in other cases, this game dosen't do much of that, except for comet stars which add special rules 
 to a standard mission, or make you collect 100 purple coins. in which courses are completely re-used 
 with NO changes. the powerups are good, and it finally allows you to fly, though said flight is 
 limited. overall, this is a good game for someone who's never played a mario game before, but has 
 heard of said character, or someone who wants a fairly easy, yet still fun, platformer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerseynut2004
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  The best game in the "Super Mario" series, Super Mario Galaxy delivers and exeeds expectations 
 in every facet. Every mission has a different variation, whether it be in a honey hive or a frozen 
 ice land. There are many different items Mario can use in the new game, like a mushroom that doubles 
 your health, a spring mushroom, a bee mushroom, or boo mushroom. Another pleasant surprise is when 
 you team up with Luigi to find certain stars. There are many new concepts too, like levels where 
 you hold the wiimote flat on your hand and surf on a manta ray, or holding the wiimote straight 
 up and rolling on a ball. An amazing storyline, great graphics, and controls that defy all odds 
 (and gravity!) , Super Mario Galaxy is a must-have for every gamer, and if you don't have it, you 
 need to get it! Immediately! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tdupre747
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  The game is basically perfect. If you enjoyed Super Mario 64 at all, then stop reading and go buy 
 it if you haven't.
  
  It's more of the open world we came to know in 64, which set the 3D platform standard to this day. 
 Added this time is (with most of the worlds anyway) is some element of gravity and planets, which 
 fits just perfectly. This element is also employed in most boss battles which I thought made them 
 great. The Wii controller use is also very practical - by that I mean you use it for some things, 
 which feel right, but you're not asked to be swinging it around constantly.
  
  The difficultly is also just right. Fun enough to keep you playing, and towards the end there's 
 a few stars you really have to work for.
  
  Good variety of worlds and Boss fights were really fun, and the Prankster Comet mechanic added 
 a perfect way to revisit some of them.
  
  Aside from that - I'll just note a few things that I wanted more with (these are just very small 
 annoyances that I had - they take it from 10 to 9.5, if you know what I mean) :
  
  1. Some of the suits could have seen more play time, or at least a bit more open use. Most of them 
 are used solely for the purposes of solving the goal for that specific star. Example would be fireballs 
 - you never really "have" fireballs unless you're running to the spot where you need to use them 
 before the suit times out. That part is fun, but I would have like to use them openly as well.
 
  
  2. Camera angles and the points at which the angle auto-changed was more than a little frustrating. 
 It just happens a little too often to not comment on.
  
  3. I think the "save Luigi" part could have been used much more in the game, and been just a bit 
 harder to actually find him (e. g. you automatically know what galaxy he's in, because there's a 
 missing normal star at that galaxy when you check it - that kind of ruined it for me) .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChiagoTypwriter
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  This is by far the best Mario game in a long time. There are so many positive changes for the franchise.
 
  
  Suits are back: One of my favorite thing in Mario 3 has finally returned. However I wish the brought 
 back the froggy suit for water levels. They are fun. Especially the Bee suit it's really cool sometime 
 I would just fly around and do nothing then look at the levels.
  
  Classic Music:
  
  A lot of great past tunes were brought back to the seris. All remind me of being young and killing 
 koopas.
  
  Camera:
  
  Actually follows you nicely, this was a huge relief because it made the 64 version miserible. It's 
 still not perfect though.
  
  Just plain fun:
  
  This game is really hard to put down even after several hours of paly because you just have fun 
 playing it. Please, Just go buy it already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Savatoasis
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  Well, where to start, this game is an absolute treat. Visually, it is one of the cleanest and sharpest 
 games on the wii. The graphics are really smooth too. However, where the game truly shines, is 
 when it comes to its gameplay.
  It is one of the entertaining games you will ever play. Alongside the fact that there are so many 
 different galaxies, you are never going to get used to playing the same level over and over and 
 over again... Unless you really are poor at video games.
  One of the mainly brilliant things in the game, is how each galaxy is so varied, from the Gusty 
 Garden galaxy, with the cleverly made planets and the use of the "Fluffies", to the Battlerock 
 galaxy, which sees you trying to take down the battlerock. Also, once you think you have completed 
 that particular galaxy, as comet might appear, creating an entirely different style of gameplay. 
 Like trying to race a blue-liquid like mario to a star, to playing an entirely different level 
 with only 1 health.
  The boss battles are a treat too, which make clever use of the in game gravity. However, the final 
 boss is little bit too easy in my opinion...
  The music is also an extremely strong element in the game, which past musics in the past mario 
 games appearing, like the super mario 64 bowser's levels theme. And the Super mario bros. 3 overworld 
 theme.
  If i was to be picky and find a problem with the game, it would have to be that some of the suits 
 are a little bit difficult to use, but this can be easily overlooked with the rest of the game 
 being as brilliant as it is.
  
  To be entirely honest, reviews can't really sum up how brilliant this game actually is, however, 
 it can tell you to make one of the best gaming decisions in your life and BUY THIS GAME!!!!! I 
 assure you, you won't be disappointed... And if you are, then you must have a heart as cold as frozen 
 steel...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiiLuv2game23
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  Mario has always blown me away. From the 8-bit side-scrolling to racing go karts, he never dissapoints. 
 This is true for Nintendos newest Mario adventure, Super Mario Galaxy. This game shows the true 
 power of Nintendos newest console as he soares the sky and platforms through lush, cartoony enviorments 
 that make this endevour worth your 50 big ones. As you may have noticed me implying, the graphics 
 and overall artistic style of this game shine on the under-powered console, showing us just what 
 the Wii can truly do in terms of graphics. And the gameplay shines as well, as old style platforming 
 mixes in with some new Wii controls to make this is experience new and exiciting, while still sticking 
 to the format that wins fans over every time. The gameplay, although simple, never gets old and 
 will having you wanting more and more as you play. Saying the boss battles are epic would be a 
 complete understatement. They show off what genius and imagination Nintendo has when it comes to 
 making games. The battles range from lava squids to giant ground hogs and are a new and fun experience 
 every time. Although I have been building this up to be the game of games, there is some minor 
 problems that keep this game from a true 10. First of all, swimming sucks in this game. Although 
 improved from the days of Mario 64, it still is an uneeded addition to the game. Also, the story 
 is, well, childish at best. Although it does fit the cartoony atmosphere of the game, it really 
 doesn't have much depth and really doesn't tie the game together as it should. And one last thing, 
 some of the costumes are pretty annoying to use ( the spring, although fun at first, isn't helpful 
 in more challenging levels.) . But, this game is one of the best, if not the best, game out there 
 for the Nintendo Wii and is sure to be worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lampooninating
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Okay, this is my first review and so I'm choosing a game that really deserves being recognized. 
 With out further ado...
  
  Pros: | It's a Mario! | Great Music | Excellent visuals | Solid game play | Highly addictive |
 
  
  Cons: Little multi player | No WiFi | Repeated bosses |
  
  Graphics: A lot of companies really haven't been taping into what the Wii can do graphics wise, 
 and that's pretty sad. This game is living (well...) proof that the Wii has the power for at least 
 some nice visuals. Clear, crisp and distinctly Mario. 9 / 10.
  
  Music: Pleasant, exactly what it needed to be when it needed to be. I especially love the tune 
 for one galaxy... Also, some bonus music note things that can be triggered let you play some of 
 my favorite older tunes remixed. 9 / 10.
  
  Story: Save the princess. (Again.) Not much new here, apart from some totally irrelevant storybook 
 chapters that explain the past of the new Roselina. Not much to say here, but it doesn't affect 
 the gameplay in any way. 7/ 10. 
  Speaking of which...
  
  Gameplay: Fun, fun, fun, addictive, fun. A new feature here is "star bits" which you can shoot 
 with the B button, or use to feed hungry "lumas", living stars. Run around in tons of "galaxies" 
 with all sorts of stuff to do, (which all leads to getting a star) including some innovative bosses. 
 Unfortunately, these bosses are shamelessly repeated, usually with minor variations. I HATE that!!! 
 Ah well, the final fight with Bowser is pretty darn epic. Noticeable lack of multiplayer and WiFi 
 is sad, except for a "co-star" mode where using a second Wii Remote, your friend can help you by 
 jumping and the like. Controls also work well. 9 / 10.
  
  Value: At $50, it's a little pricey but soo worth it! A great title to add to your Wii library. 
 9 / 10.
  
  Overall: A great game with some minor flaws, but still addicting, innovative and fun. One of the 
 best Mario games to date! 9.5 / 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnvb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  As a child I often wondered what it would be like to have the ability to manipulate gravity (walk 
 on walls, walk upside down, ect.) . If you ever felt the same way then this is the answer via video 
 game form. Super Mario Galaxy is everything I was hoping it would be, and much more. There is nothing 
 anti-climatic about it.
  
  I have noticed that some people are disappointed with the game because of the awkward camera angles 
 and limited ability to alter them. I understand. I was initially irritated with the camera angles 
 as well. But I was intrigued enough with the originality of it all to keep going. What I found 
 to be true, in my own personal experience, was that once you get through the initial hour of the 
 game you get a lot more used to the camera angles and it's no longer an issue. It may take some 
 people a little more time, and others a little less time. But the game is very well crafted in 
 the sense that it starts out relatively easy, allowing you an adequate amount of time to get the 
 hang of things before the levels get too difficult.
  
  The game play consists of basically the same sort of formula that was used in "Super Mario 64". 
 Instead of jumping through picture frames scattered throughout various rooms in a castle, you will 
 travel from a starship base to various galaxies with a certain number of planets. In each planet 
 you must collect a certain number of stars by completing a particular mission objective (just like 
 in "Mario 64") . However this game is most certainly NOT a mere Mario 64 rip-off. "Galaxy" is entirely 
 original and holds up on it's own. One of the many impressive qualities is how well it succeeds 
 at delivering a beautiful blend of old-school mario nostalgia and originality. I have lots of respect 
 for how well they have pulled this off after so many years a mario games. I feared that mario might 
 be becoming outdated, but this game has proved that mario definitely still has what it takes.
 
  
  The imagination of Shigeru Miyamoto never ceases to amaze, but I can't help wondering if he might 
 have taken a couple of ideas from Tim Schafer (creator of "Psychonauts") . Not that this is a bad 
 thing. I am simply noting that I see some creative similarities with the twisted toon-worlds.
 
  
  The graphics are stunning. The cartoonish environments are perfectly rendered to fit mario's style. 
 The only flaw in all of this is that it feels a little bit too sweet and innocent. The villains 
 are not very menacing (much less so than in previous mario installments) . Maybe it's just me, but 
 I don't like for the rolling black ball thingy to smile at me while it is trying to crush me. However, 
 this is a very minor complaint that doesn't really distract me from being able to enjoy the incredibly 
 fun gaming experience.
  
  To some things up. This is definitely one of the best Mario games to date, and I don't doubt that 
 it will go down in gaming history as a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BretKinney
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Before its release, I always wanted a game with best graphics and action. Everything is awesome 
 except the controls. In the beginning, I always had to put up with the controls and so on. The 
 levels can sometimes frustrate me, even the challenges, all because of the controls. But in the 
 end, this turned out to be the best in the Mario franchise. The best thing is the graphics and 
 the worst thing is... heck, I'm just used to the controls now, so there is no flaw. Now who wants 
 it? Huh-uh? I see no takers. Hah! If you think Mario is just as gay as Gay Luigi (I got that from 
 a Youtube Poop) , then you didn't see anything about Mario! If you believe my review and Gamespot's 
 review, then you have to buy a Wii. And if you already have one, then you're enjoying it already. 
 But heck, I highly doubt that anyone is going to read my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeffreytheking
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Mario Galaxy has solid graphics for the wii and on top of that it made me love platformer games 
 all over again after it was ruined by shadow the hedgehog. ( i hate that game so much) . Mario galaxy 
 is a fun addictive and its fun you cant resit playing once you start. Mario Galaxy has many fun 
 levels solid controls and none of that motion sensitivity stuff which makes the game perfect unlike 
 Metroid. If you have a Wii and you are looking for a solid platformer game you should go buy Super 
 Mario Galaxy. jjjjjjjjjjj jjjjjjjjjjj jjjjjjjjj jjjjjjjjjjj jjj jjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjj jjjjjjjjj 
 jjjjj jj jjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjj jjjjjjjjgn ghjnmgjklhgf fgjnfkjn jfnkjfn kjndljgf glkfjngkljsg fcjlnjdfngkj 
 fgjnfdlkj jnfkjd ljfnglkjf kfjngkjfd kfjnhfkj bfdgdf fhgdfg fgdbf g g g g gg ggggg ggg g g g g 
 g g g g g g 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-PS3-fan89
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 5, 2008 4:54 am PT
Review:  Super mario galaxy is a pretty fun game, but lacks alot of challenge and its way too easy. It might 
 be cool ,but too short.
  
  The good: Its pretty rad in mario galaxy that all those different puzzles and jumping around cool 
 stuff makes it pretty fun. Camera isnt annoying. Gameplay is sweet.
  
  The bad: From start to finish the game is too short. To easy, boss fights are nothing .Combat system 
 only one move, spin, thats it. Doesnt entartain teenagers, only good for 8 yrs olds (my taste) . There 
 not much to do in the game.
  
  so it might be fun, but the game is pretty boring. You all will disaggree with me, but i dont care. I 
 have my own taste .Still mario galaxy is a fun game, but im not really sure if it is so suitable 
 for TEENS, but for my Taste this game lacks a bit of challenge.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobrax80
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2008 10:49 pm PT
Review:  While complete spherical levels have appeared in a few games in the past, it was never done this 
 well at this scale before. The level designs are some of the most creative ones made in recent 
 memory. I thought that platforming games in 3D was a dying genre but this game revived my hopes. 
 Without spoiling anything, the levels all make the use of gravity and physics and don't have to 
 be necessarily spherical. The graphics are obviously, hands down the best on the Wii and the art 
 design and also the music manage to capture that "Mario Feel' without feeling too nostalgic or 
 too new. This game is fun, it's just that simple. Every time you unlock a new galaxy it's exciting 
 because you have no idea what is in store for you next. The boss fights are fun and the music that 
 goes along with it also adds to the experience. The Wii controls are done very well. It doesn't 
 overuse the controls and they work near perfectly. The game also does a good job balancing the 
 space objects gameplay with the classic 3D mario gameplay without making it seem we have more of 
 one over the other. Mario has a bunch of new power ups, some are better than others but they are 
 still fun to use and it mixes up the gameplay a little bit. The story in the game is surprisingly 
 a little bit more complex, I mean sure, Peach is captured by Bowser yet again, but the little backstory, 
 which can be skipped if you don't care, is interesting. The ending is a little confusing but besides 
 that the story is good for a Mario game. Nintendo has manged to create another excellent Mario 
 game that will be remembered as a classic for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeanDaugherty
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  First off let me start by saying I am not a platformer fan but, due to high reviews I decided to 
 pick up Super Mario Galaxy. And its a fantastic game! Every aspect of this game is just awesome. 
 "There is no part of this game that sucks" Alex Navarro. Pretty much this whole game just rocks. 
 There is some frustration with the suits and the story could have been more fleshed out but those 
 are just minor complaints. Now i know saying that this is the best in the series will make some 
 fanboys cry but if you think about how all the other mario games such as "Super Mario World","Mario 
 64" created unique things this game really includes all those things and just refines what was 
 already great. Such as suits 3d environments and great control. This is just a game that is so 
 easy to recommend to anyone who enjoys video games period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoctorSoctopus
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is a great game. You can't argue about it. No one sane would say otherwise. 
 It's just not as great as everyone says it is.
  
  The graphics are stunning. Not technically, but artistically. The character designs are great, 
 and the colors are warm and vibrant. If you didn't know better, you'de think it was a blanket and 
 cuddle up for a nice nap in it. But you can't. Don't get any ideas.
  
  The game plays masterfully. The controls are spot-on, and just what you'd want from a Mario game. 
 They're intuitive and fluid, and the Wii's unique motion controls only enhance the experience. 
 However, it is a little difficult navigating circular planets in the beginning, but you get the 
 hang of it eventually.
  
  The game sounds better then real life. The sweeping orchestral soundtrack fits the mood perfectly, 
 so when you're in an epic battle, it will sound very epic, and when things die down, (they do so 
 rarely) it sounds just like it should: quiet and out of the way. The sound effects are good, but 
 not exactly great.
  
  So why not as good as everyone says? There are three problems that bog down the game and make it 
 severely less enjoyable. The first one is the terrible camera. The camera in this game is god-awful, 
 and will make you very frustrated when you're looking up at Mario's rear instead of what's happening 
 around him. 3-D Mario platformers have always had camera problems, but this one multiplies this 
 by unimaginable numbers.
  
  The second of the major problems is the difficulty. It is extremely easy, so much that you could 
 play without looking at the screen and still not get hit. However, there are some moments when 
 the difficulty SKYROCKETS and gets frustratingly difficult, mostly because of the camera.
  
  The third, and definitely less severe of the major problems is the dreaded coin-collection 
 missions! They are so mind-numbingly boring and frustrating that i would have to plunk down another 
 $60 to replace my controllers, if it wasn't for the helpful wrist strap. Thank you, Nintendo!
 
  
  That's not to say it's a bad game. The galaxy concept is great, and is executed to almost perfection. 
 It feels immersive, and flying around in space is great fun. It's also fairly long, though it does 
 feel a bit stretched with the *shudder* coin-collection missions.
  
  Overall, Super Mario Galaxy is a great game that any WIi owner should definitely consider owning. 
 However, some major problems really hold it back from being truly, a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlie_bm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy for the Nintendo Wii is a great game where stomping goombas won't be in a plain 
 terrain anymore, instead, you will be launched to the space in an adventure that's out of this 
 world. 
  
  Every Mario has almost the same story: Defeat Bowser and rescue Princess Peach. This game isn't 
 the exception, it starts the same and end pretty much the same. The game mechanics are also very 
 similar; you have to gather stars by entering different worlds, all to stop the evil Bowser. 
 
  
  From this point of view, you may think that this game is repetitive; however, this game is incredibly 
 original. Mario 64 was the first step in creating the 3D Platforms and Mario Galaxy goes far away, 
 by setting the game in the space, thus affected by gravity. Gravity is the main element in Mario 
 Galaxy; you travel by shooting starts from planetoid to planetoid in different galaxies. This helps 
 to create awesome galaxies where you can experiment with gravity in different ways. For example, 
 when you are near a black hole, you can't jump from the platform you are on; otherwise you are 
 sucked by the gravitational pull of the hole. When these holes are missing, you can explore each 
 side and face (there are squared planetoids) of the planetoids. In terms of worlds, you won't be 
 disappointed.
  
  The game on itself it's really easy, there aren't any hard worlds or difficult bosses. You can 
 complete the game with only 61 of the 121 stars. Gathering every one of them isn't a hard quest 
 like Mario 64 but there are stars that will look tedious with the 100 coin search.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is indeed a masterpiece, maybe one of the best games for Wii.
  
  Best aspect: 
 graphics, music.
  Worst aspect: repetitive bosses.
  Could improve: difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXHackettXx
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  This is the game Wii owners have been waiting for and the reason I got a Wii. Super Mario Galaxy 
 shows what you can do with the Wii controller, and how there is no better way to play a platformer. 
 The controls are fun and easy to pick up and just feel perfect. 
  
  The visuals are the best on the Wii and really show what it can do. The amazing art design, combined 
 with great level design really make, Super Mario Galaxy stand out. The amount of polish in this 
 game is incredible. The levels are perfectly laid out and everything about them just plain works. 
 The gravity in the game adds a whole new level of gameplay as you're running around in space jumping 
 from planet to planet. And the many side missions like surfing on a manta ray and being on top 
 of ball keep the game exciting and new. I never got bored well playing it because the galaxies 
 were always changing and you always seemed to be doing something new. 
  
  This is a dramatic improvement over Super Mario Sunshine and shows that Nintendo still knows what 
 there doing. The amount of nostalgic things they put in this game is crazy, you feel like there's 
 a little bit of every Mario game ever made in Galaxy. Everything's not perfect though. There's 
 really not much of a story. It's the same one they've been using since the beginning, Bowser captures 
 Peach, and it's up to Mario to get her back. This and the limited voice acting are easily over 
 looked though, since the game is just so much fun to play. 
  
  This is some of the most fun I've ever had in a video game, and really brought me back to the days 
 of playing Mario 64 on my N64. This game will take awhile to beat well collecting all 120 Stars, 
 and you'll have a blast doing it. This is a must own for Wii owners and the best platformer since 
 Mario 64! Add this all together and you'll see why it's GameSpot's 2007 Game of the Year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkelspunker
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  Great experience. I'm just going to list off the pros and cons
  Pros:
  -Accessible for beginners and experienced players..
  -Great graphics.
  -Incredibly creative 
 galaxies.
  -Added nostalgia value.
  -Fun suits i. e Bee Mario, Fire and Ice mario etc.
  -Some good galaxies that us the wiis motion sensing capabilities.
  -Good replay value.
  -You 
 get a lot for your money.
  -Fun boss fights.
  
  Cons: -None that I can think of.
  
  Truly 10/10
  (full stop) Great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great greatgreat great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great. Sorry about 
 the greats had to put them in 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Griffinnutter
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is the best game of the year for several good reasons Reason number one is the 
 Gameplay which is fun and exhilirating thanks to the fantastic controls and phenomonal level design. 
 Reason number two is the creative and detailed graphics which immerse you in the game world! Reason 
 number three is the spot on sound, from the squeak of mario's boots to the explosions of a bomb, it 
 all sounds great! It also has massive replay value beacause of the mass amount of stars (there really 
 is a massive amount of stars, almost unbelievable!) The game also has a huge number of easter eggs 
 and secrets which are sometimes very hard to find but always worth it! The story itself is nothing 
 special but then again what did you expect from a Mario game, The story starts when Peach invites 
 Mario to the castle for a party celebrating a comet that almost never appears but it did for Mario. 
 And when Mario arrives at the castle, Large flying ships appear and put the Mushroom kingdom under 
 heavy fire from cannons. Everyone panics and bowser is on a boat heading towards Peach's castle. 
 Bowser kidnaps her on the spot. (of course he did) and lifts her castle off the ground using ufo's. 
 Mario gets on the castle and is climbing towards Peach who is at the top of the castle. He nearly 
 makes it, but Kamek suddenly appears and using her magic she literally blasts Mario to an unfamiliar 
 galaxy. Mario is knocked out by the blast and wakes up on an unfamiliar planet. And then with the 
 help of the lumas which are natives he begins a new journey to save Peach and stop bowser once 
 again! And for all the reasons above, it's not hard to realize why Super Mario Galaxy is the best 
 game of the year! so if I were you I would get my butt off the computer and go to Wal Mart and 
 buy Super Mario Galaxy as soon as possible! And if you don't have a wii then go get one! you will 
 be doing yourself a HUGE favor by buying this game. It also makes a great birthday present! So 
 get Super Mario Galaxy I promise you will not regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stelthius
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2008 2:44 am PT
Review:  Another great game from the Super Mario series, gives the Wii console a good name.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy's success comes from its new and incredible game-play. Blast off with Mario 
 to amazing galaxies, each with it's own different theme, from volcanoes, to a land infested with 
 bees. Explore these new fun galaxies with amazing gravity features, equipped with a good camera 
 control. Mario also comes with brand new suits, with the powers to set things on fire, or freeze 
 water at the touch.
  Not only that, but you can experience a whole new story, with new characters along with our old 
 favorite side character, Luigi.
  Also, blow your mind with the graphics of the game, so detailed, right down to the last scratch 
 on Bowser's shell.
  This game also has replay factors, after completing the main storyline, you have the challenge 
 of collecting the rest of the stars.
  
  This game is a must have for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kjhorton25
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  It is the best game ever! The graphics are top notch top quality work - the colors and detail are 
 awesome. There are little details that have been rendered beautifully which make the game a rich 
 experience. The game play is awesome. There are more galaxies to explore than any game I have ever 
 played. The soundtrack is the best I have ever heard. You can can play this game over and over 
 again and not get tired of it. Super Mario Sunshine was a pretty good game (8.0) , but everything, 
 including the awesome soundtrack is better in Super Mario Galaxy. 
  This is without a doubt the best game there is for the Wii. What made this game great is the level 
 design; they went crazy with the Galaxy concept. That's how they made this game so awesome. There 
 is not a steep learning curve to the game - it starts out easy and gets harder as you play. Therefore 
 you don't get stuck on a level that you can't defeat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rabbids_Rule
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  The Good: - Amazing graphics - Great Music - Wide variety of worlds - Alot of fun - You can play 
 as Luigi - Boss battles are so much fun - trying to collect every star is a great challenge - Alot 
 of suits and different things to do -
  
  The Bad: - The game starts off REALLY REALLY boring -
  
  This probably one of the greatest 
 games ever, and the greatest game for the Wii and the greatest this year. I had never had this 
 much fun playing a video game before. If you like adventure games, if you like Mario games, then 
 you'd love this game!!! There is lots of fun things you can do: Races, using power-suits, and tons 
 of different worlds which are just so great. The one weak of this game is the start. It starts 
 off sooooo boring. The boss battles you do against Bower, Bowser Jr. or random things in some levels 
 are alot of fun.
  
  If you have a Wii, you should defiently get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pangster007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  OK, i got my preordered Super Mario Galaxy way back in November and beat the final boss just before 
 Christmas time. Slow - is what most people would be thinking right now. Yes, i admit i did play 
 it quite slowly in short bursts but i did so willingly. Frankly, the levels are so inspiring, the 
 pace is so appealing and the gameplay is just plain so very fun ~ that to rush through on my first 
 playthrough and miss all the small details in gameplay, art styIe, enemies and animation itself 
 would be just criminal.
  
  Already you can guess what my view of this game would be, Super Mario Galaxy is simply as close 
 to flawless as a 3D platformer can get. With such great praise however, whether it is the best 
 Mario platformer when compared to his 2D outings is still up in the air in my opinion. SMG is easily 
 the best Mario 3D platformer but when comparing 2D to 3D platformers, i have to delve into the 
 intracacies of what is actually lost when adding that extra dimension. I'm not going to discuss 
 it in great detail here but i'll outline some things such as pixel-perfect jumping and landing 
 mechanics, more precise shell usage, faster progression through levels, and Yoshi! Sunshine is 
 an example of how bad Yoshi would be in 3D - he was perfect in 2D. T'is a shame.
  
  Let's get back onto the reviewing; The last game was the disappointing Super Mario Sunshine on 
 the Gamecube back in 2002: 5 years back, that's quite a while ago. Because of the outstanding achievement 
 of Mario 64 on the N64 and the dissapointment of Sunshine, it felt as though depending on Galaxy, 
 Mario may start to be seen as the old franchise that is never going to have its peak once again 
 - and some may say, going the way of Sonic. Galaxy, however, lives up to expectations - and in 
 perfect timing in strengthening the Wii's software library but also coinciding with Miyamoto's 
 birthday to our European release date. The story this time is nothing to brag about: once again 
 Princess Peach is kidnapped by no other than Bowser. Before that happens though, the game opens 
 up with you as Mario arriving at the Mushroom Kingdom upon an invitation from Peach. The Kingdom 
 is bustling under the night sky and reflection of the lake complements perfectly to the still-peaceful 
 residents. Orchestrated music plays and you make your way down towards the market square. It is 
 then when Bowser in his flying ship swoops on top of the castle while freezing several mushroom 
 people with magic bolts. You make your way to the castle only to be blasted off it as the entire 
 castle is lifted off its foundations by Bowser. Fairly epic stuff, one may have to admit thus far 
 - however, this peak in story is the only one till the very end. Waking up, you're met face to 
 face with this hopping rabbit who tells you to follow it.
  
  As the soothing music surrounds you, prodding and poking at your slight disorientation, you realise 
 that you are standing on this very tiny planet - small enough that you can run round the planet 
 and back to the same spot within seconds - Woah. And that is where this game truly shines and mesmorises. 
 There is something strangely instinctively fun in hurling yourself off a planet and seeing yourself 
 orbit that planet several times before finally landing on your two feet - Or jumping around nearby 
 planets and wondering which one you'll end up on. Very soon after chasing some rabbits you gain 
 a new ability to attack: the ability to swing your body 360 degrees with your fists clenched - 
 Zangief style. Jumping and spinning are the 2 basic attacks. You jump by pushing the A button and 
 to spin you 'waggle', a quick flick of the Wiimote. From her on out, Rosalina, a mysterious woman 
 whom granted you the spinning attack shows you the hub, her own 'spaceship' accompanied by Polari, 
 a black Luma (talking star) .
  
  Movement is simple with the analague stick of the nun-chuck and Mario gets a very welcome return 
 of his acrobatic moves. You can do the triple jump (jumping consecutively while running) , the side-jump 
 (change direction rapidly and jump as you do so) , and my favourite, the long jump (run, jold down 
 Z to crouch and then jump) . There is also the wall-jump (press jump on a wall) , the backflip (hold 
 down Z while standing still, then jump) . All these moves are second nature for most people who've 
 played Super Mario 64 and Super Mario Sunshine and it feels natural at all times. It's a little 
 unfortunate however that people who are new to the games may miss these as they aren't explicitly 
 'taught'but are shown in the game manual. As a result of such great manoeuvrability and gorgeous 
 animations, it is a joy to just watch your little man dart across platforms, top and upside down, 
 or scaling walls. The game also uses the Wii's pointing function as a way to collect and shoot 
 star bits (the games currency) ; shooting weak enemies will stun them, shooting bubbles will burst 
 them and it's also used as a way to feed 'hungry lumas' to unlock galaxies. It's not intrusive 
 at all but is a good way to keep players busy at all times. This also how the 2 player cooperative 
 mode is used. With a second remote, the second player can control the pointing functions and can 
 also make your character jump higher. This 2 player co-op mode is bit of a let-down really as it 
 is quite limited, having 2 characters on-screen at the same time would have been a more fun experience.
 
  
  The graphics are excellent, it is one of the best looking games on the Wii so far. Some surfaces 
 , every now and again, you will see excellent lighting in the round edges as you walk round and 
 upside down platforms. The white reflections give objects that extra 'roundness' feel to them which 
 complements the 'cute' environments. There is a lot primary colouring to the game and the extra 
 visual effects do well to make it look not overdone. While i played on a monitor with a 1920 x 
 1200 resolution, jaggies were very apparent and at times on closeups, you'd wish the Wii could 
 output at least 720P, nevertheless, the animations, the incredible framerates the game runs in 
 (60 fps) , the music and just pure gameplay easily overcomes the minimal amount of anti-aliasing. 
 Enemies are each very unique to one another and the behaviour and characteristics shines through 
 to be worthy of a cartoon in itself.
  
  The game is split up much like Super Mario 64; galaxies are accessed by a central hub and certain 
 areas are unlocked as you retrieve more Stars - stars which power the hub/spaceship. The more stars 
 are collected, the further the hub can access the surrounding area, uncover enemy territories and 
 hopefully find Princess Peach. The Galaxies are split up in missions, each on completion reveals 
 a star. They are short and very easy to begin with. Although easy and short they are, they're simply 
 fun due to the variety. it is only when you reach the stars at the very end in which you'll feel 
 the challenge for experienced gamers. Most of the difficult stars to get are the ones in which 
 you must revisit previous galaxies but to complete it under certain conditions. Conditions involve, 
 dare-devil (1 life bar) , speed comets (complete in under a caertain time or racing someone) or 
 the purple comets - collecting a certain amount of purple coins. Whenever the missions may feel 
 repetitive, out comes something unexpected such as mantaray surfing, 'ball-walking', or bubble-floating 
 - all of which are played my using motion controls or the pointing function. The pacing and the 
 curve of difficulty is perfected for the target audience (everyone) that it is a testament in it 
 itself. There are also powerups such as the Bee suit (to fly) , Spring suit (to spring up high) , 
 fire-flower (to shoot flames) , ice suit (walk on water) and more which will at one point or another 
 give you a "OH! SNAP!" moment - priceless.
  
  The music does it all with orchestrated performances. Memorable tunes which will have you humming 
 along in no time. And it all fits in with whatever galaxy you are on or which challenge you are 
 thrown into. Getting hurt 2 times out of a maximum of 3 will sound a buzzing alarm which is annoying 
 to be honest that it compels me to get a coin to replenish my health. What i didn't like was the 
 music for the fire-flower and ice powerup, repetitive and too upbeat to be listened to over and 
 over again - which you will have to considering the powerups will be needed over and over again 
 consecutively to get to certain locations. There is actually a side-story to the game which is 
 unlocked as you progress in the game: the library. This is where Rosalina takes out her picture 
 book and tells a story of a young girl and a luma out to search for 'mama'. The young girl is Rosalina 
 herself; the soft music and cute visuals really sets intrigue into Rosalina's background. It is 
 when you get to the end and when you finish beating the last boss do you see a connection in the 
 moral of the story that is deeper than most people would realise.
  
  The bosses were far too easy for me but were memoroable and enjoyable. Each one required different 
 approaches to defeat and they are easily the best looking sections of the game. The Queen Bee (not 
 an enemy) and the bee suit shows off some excellent fur effects; for once, the Wii's technology 
 is being utilised and it shows. Although, you can beat the story by your 60th star, the 'meat' 
 of the game for most experienced players is to go on to capture every star to unlock a hidden secret 
 or two.
  
  In closing there really isn't that much to say really. If you have a Wii, you really should buy 
 this game. Even if you don't like Mario, there is enough solid gameplay here to win you over. This 
 is one of the few games on the Wii that is actually worth the full price; why don't you have this 
 game already?
  
  
  
  SPOILER!
  
  This spoiler section is for those who've completed the game.
  
  The only real disappointment 
 to me were the rewards. After getting all 120 stars for Mario you unlock Luigi as a playable character. 
 Unfortunately, there is little to no change when playing as Luigi. Luigi moves a little faster 
 and he skids around a lot more than Mario and there are a few subtle changes in dialogue. I was 
 expecting more, different, harder objectives after Mario but the stars are all the same. The music 
 is the same and the visuals are the same. There was very little to compel me to repeat the exact 
 same easy missions once again. If the music was remixed slightly, the colour palette to change 
 subtly or the enemies to be harder or have slightly different behaviours then my experience through 
 the game a second time through would have been much much better. The best moment when playing as 
 Luigi though was seeing the reaction of Luigi being saved by none other than himself, lol.
  
  Still, i persisted and got 120 stars for Luigi. Beat the final boss once again and unlocked 
 the last galaxy which was really nice actually, but was it enough to be satisfied after getting 
 240 stars for it? Barely. Then upon getting 121 stars for Mario, and 121 stars for Luigi, you can 
 get sent a message through the Wii's message board. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BodomBeachChild
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  So we all know that Mario 64 was the Mario game of Mario games. I can't tell you how many times 
 I replayed the thing over and over again from the very beginning. Then came Mario Sunshine. Wow.. 
 what a let down. On top of the fact (in my opinion) that the Lamecube sucked, this game did. But 
 now, it's been a long time comin' but we finally got the next great Mario game: Super Mario Galaxy. 
 Hell yeah.
  
  So the first thing I notice is the nature was a tiny bit dakrer in the beginning which I thought 
 was pretty spiffy. The controls were solid and easy to get used to right off the bat which was 
 also a big thumbs up from me. The story was a typical beginning for any Mario game with Bowser 
 (Er... Koopa in Japan) kidnapping Peach and whatnot but this time with a... I guess Sci-Fi twist. 
 You aptly follow in pursuit and yer givin' the whole "Hey, we need all these friggin' stars" speech 
 by new characters and whatnot and yer adventure begins.
  
  Ok, the levels are awesome AT FIRST. Now, I don't mind playing the same levels again for various 
 stars, but for some reason, this got kinda tiring in SMG. I don't think I would mind as much if 
 the levels were BIGGER. I mean, sure the Wii isn't a superconsole or anything, but it seems like 
 Nintendo decided that they should use all the power the Wii has and use it to make the characters 
 have this weird "glow" to them and make Mario more round to avoid any jagged edges on this hat 
 or nose. I could have lived with a tiny bit of polygonalnis to the game in order to provide bigger 
 levels and a tiny bit more to do. This game would have been perfect for me if it only had that.
 
  
  All in all, SMG is veyr addicitng and an awesome Mario game that should not be missed by anymore. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamezRmiilife
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. The graphics are revolutionary and the best graphics for a wii game ever. 
 Like every other Mario game you have to save princess Peach from Bowser, but this time he makes 
 you go around the universe to collect stars and fight him or his henchmen. The little book you 
 can read is a ok thing but still doesnt ruin the game though. His suits are so cool in this game 
 to bad they didnt bring back flying mario like the nes version but the bee suit is almost just 
 like it. May favourite would have to be the Ice Mario and my hated one is Spring mario. I hope 
 that the future mario games live up to this one and maybe even exceed it. This game will be a greatest 
 hit for sure. I dont get how some people gave it bad rating when the game was amazing and i give 
 the creators of this game 2 thumbs up and this is why i love this game and gave it a 10/10. Seriously 
 if you dont have this game then you shoudl get it and if you do have collect all 120 stars for 
 a big fat reward. LONG LIVE MARIO!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthmario123
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Well, Bowser has captured Peach again along with her castle while the Mushroom Kingdom is having 
 a great time at the Star Festival. When Mario tries to save her, he is shot off of the castle by 
 a blast of magic from a magikoopa. When He wakes up he is at the star observatory. This game is 
 another great platformer with Mario in it. The object of the game is to collect all 120 power stars 
 and save princess peach. The name "Galaxy" is from Mario going to planet to planet in search of 
 stars. An awesome part of the game is the fully orchistrated so even after you are done playing, 
 you will be humming those tunes in your head. This game utilizes the wii's controls to let Mario 
 spin, throw koopa shells, and many other ways to use the remote. This is truly a game that nearly 
 everyone will love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luke141eels
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 2:45 am PT
Review:  Mario galaxy started a new thing for gaming a new standard just like zelda orcinia of time it didn"t 
 just improve in one factor in improved in most no all Mario has done it again. Since sunshine everyone 
 has been waiting for this then they were talking about Mario 128 made fans more excited for the 
 next Mario plat former from the super Mario sereis.
  
  Well lets talk how it made gaming better it started off with the Graphics they say the wii can 
 not compare to the ps3 in Graphics i think there wrong this seems better then the ps3 this is the 
 kind of game that could change somebody liking Mario from a child's thing when its not thats what 
 people think of Mario because of the colors seems a bit weird.
  
  another thing about Mario Galaxy the story this time bowser kidnaps princess and takes her to space 
 it seems better eh. 
  
  all i can say is Mario galaxy is the definitely the Game of 2007 and 8 except brawl :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Green-Fenril
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  When someone thinks Nintendo, they think of the character Mario. So it comes to no surprise that 
 Mario makes his Wii debut, and what a debut it was.
  
  Super Mario Galaxies is by far the best game for the Wii since Twilight Princess. The graphics 
 are by far the best for the Wii, and the gameplay itself is near perfect. 
  
  The game itself is not a cake-walk, but not punishing either, certain levels will leave you in 
 suspense while you dangle Mario on the edge of disaster to get where you want, being extra cautious 
 as you advance, certain star levels will not allow you to be cautious, but that's for you to discover. 
 
  
  The 2-player Co-Op is probably it's best feature. It frees the main player from getting the Star 
 Bits and focus on Mario, while the other player can collect those bits, and run interference against 
 enemies while Mario takes them out.
  
  If you have a Wii, you owe it to yourself to buy this game. It is worth every penny, and more.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesouleater
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is a lengthy game that is extremely entertaining. This is one of the few games that your 
 little brother could play, but your dad could also play too! Like almost all Mario games, Princess 
 Peach is kidnapped by Bowser, and Mario is off on a wild quest to save her. Unlike all of the other 
 games, Super Mario Galaxy turns the player's concept of a video game upside down. Blasting through 
 space and landing upside-down honestly can change your perspective of how video games should be 
 made. Super Mario Galaxy is extremely innovative in the way that it took an ordinary italian plumber 
 that fights giant foes, and blasted the fight into space where there is more room to move. Breaking 
 new ground is one of SMG's specialties. Unlike all of the other Mario games, this one is NOT planted 
 to the ground. Flying through the stars and walking all around planets makes the game more interesting. 
 Even though the Wii's focus wasn't the focus in creating the Wii, this game has surprisingly amazing 
 graphics. Bright and colorful are the planets and features. Each and every character has a distinct 
 personality accompanied by witty dialogue. The Warp Stars make the boundaries endless. Beating 
 the game is fairly at a moderate difficulty level, but completing the game is the hard part. With 
 plenty of hidden stars and bright colors, this is a must have for the Wii! I would recommend that 
 if you do buy a Wii, this game must be in your collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tandenhoofd
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 29, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Mario Galaxy is good game thou some of the levels are quiet short. also the whole game wouldnt 
 take more than a month to finish and what use is a game when you can only play it for a month. 
 Also in this game mario can only swirl around to hit people and looking back to Mario sunshine 
 it looked alot better to run around with a water tank on your back and squirt people and do alot 
 more stuff with it. Along with that some of the levels are very boring and you will be wondering 
 what happened to the great fun that you had when playing Mario 64. but i do have to confess some 
 levels in the game are pretty fun but other than those 3 or 4 levels i didnt enjoy the game that 
 much. So Overall Mario Galaxy is a good game if your the only one playing the wii, and if your 
 looking for some brief entertainment but eventually if you dont finish the game you will loose 
 intrest in the repetetive levels and you'll realise that you waisted money buying the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cms
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  i can't talk abo how good it is, so here:
  graphics 9.5
  replay value 9.6
  sound 9.4
  fun 9.9
  control 9.7
  camera 9.2
  learning curve 9.3
  live up too hype 10
  multiplayer 
 9.1
  percent of people satisfied 9.8 see score for overall blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blahblah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshi_64
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Well let's just get down to it, shall we? No beating around the bush, no making a lengthy review 
 filled with harvard law esque essay standards. This is what I feel makes Super Mario Galaxy one 
 of the best titles that graced 07 and also the Wii. 
  
  Story: 
  
  Story? What story, save the princess yet again. This time it's in space. Not descriptive enough 
 for you? Go play Super Mario Bros for the NES, don't have it? Then download the myriad of Mario 
 titles available for the Wii's Virtual Console. Seriously, it's nothing new here, except the setting 
 is in Space. 
  
  There is another character however in the game named Rosalina, she has a story too, but Nintendo 
 tells her story through these storybook elements if you decide to read them. Yes, it's not the 
 greatest thing, but if you are interested to learn where Rosalina comes from and are ready to have 
 your heart strings tugged, then go ahead. Frankly, I'm glad it was like this, it's not bad at all, 
 because if they forced this storyline on you during parts of the game... it would just ruin the 
 speed and rythm of the game. Collecting stars. 
  
  Graphics:
  
  Well, let's be honest folks, the Wii is no powerhouse. It can't produce anything that is technically 
 as proficient or even remotely close to look at good as the other systems can. With that said, 
 Super Mario Galaxy shows that Wii is very capable of very beautiful graphics. It shows that many 
 devs have been lazy, even Nintendo, in pushing this system. It shouldn't be difficult, and I hope 
 there's some middleware from this title made for devs or something. Because more Wii games should 
 look like this. I won't go into the tech side, but the graphics are beautiful for a Wii game.
 
  
  Also, I'd like to mention that the game's graphics are just not in the polygons and numbers that 
 are being crunched behind the scenes. It's also the art style. Sure, you're probably saying "What 
 art style? It's Mario, they look the same every game." Well I want to say, no. That's not what 
 I mean, because the enemies still have a very fluid and solid animation process. The devs made 
 everything move and feel like it was real in a cartoonish sort of way, and they did an excellent 
 job on where it counts most. Animation, movement, detail, and "life." The world of Super Mario 
 Galaxy just breathes with life and feels, everything just feels like your in the imagination of 
 the developers and how they are letting you have freedom to explore. 
  
  Very well done animation, very fluid motions, and the world brims with life and creativity.
  
 
  Sound:
  
  Alright, let this be said... I think it's one of the best soundtracks for a Mario game since... 
 well Since Super Marios Bros. 3. I'm referring to the main series here folks, not the RPGs or other 
 spinoffs. Reason being for this, is because Nintendo actually opted to use a REAL orchestra for 
 the most of the music in the game. This really helps convey the music where it matters most, when 
 you hear singing monks and angelic choirs humming or "ah"-ing at the right time. Also, in Koji 
 Kondo fashion, the music plays along with you, and I might say... hearing some live pieces of instruments 
 play along with you in some of these moments of gameplay are just the little touches that make 
 this game great.
  
  Of course there is some midis here, but they are used in remixes of some very classic tunes. It's 
 not bad either, as these add to some of the "nostalgia" factor that fits in with the new world 
 of gameplay. Sure the minor gripe may be that Nintendo has not embraced full voice acting for some 
 characters.... like Peach and Rosalina, even the italion stallion himself doesn't say more than 
 the usual phrases. With that said, the musical score is a really great treat and I can't fault 
 the devs too much for the voice stuff because it's not absolutely dreadful and it doesn't really 
 ruin the gaming scene.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Alright, let me just get straight to it. SMG is perhaps one of the best marriages of new and old 
 ever in this day in age of platforming gaming. Whereas real platformers are rare this day and age, 
 Nintendo didn't stop to fit in with the mold and add guns (a la Ratchet series) or make things 
 Edgy (like Sonic and Shadow games of yore.) Instead, you get some classic style gameplay mixed 
 in with new age technology that brings a breathe of freshness. Forget all you knew about platforming 
 in current gen sense, because Mario Galaxy doesn't follow suite. This hearkens to the days of jumping, 
 wall jumping, triple jumping, and... well any kind of jumping I may have missed to get to your 
 goals. 
  
  Now, you may ask, "Well it's on the Wii, what are my waggles for now?" 
  Truth be told, it's very simple here. A shake of the Wii remote will send mario spinning, and you'll 
 find that this is what you do quite a lot. Don't worry, it doesn't have to be a large sweeping 
 motion of any sort, just a quick waggle and it does the job. You initiate Mario's spin attack to 
 break things, launch from a warp star and many other things. 
  
  With all that said above, there are some Galaxys that use the Wii Remote for more unconventional 
 purposes and they are done so well that you will great enjoy the new change. One instance your 
 in a bubble where the you use the cursor to blow Mario, or the next your on a giant Glass Ball 
 with a Star encased inside and your goal is to reach the end by piloting the Ball via a "Flight 
 Stick" motion. (Holding the Wii Remote up.) Lastly, there's the Manta Ray races where you hold 
 the Wii remote forward and twist the Wii Remote like a key to control your water friend. Now, where 
 most Wii games get partial motions right, SMG's motion based galaxy games are very smooth and solid 
 that it doesn't feel like a button replacement or anything that would be better done with analog. 
 It's very refreshing and likely to be your highlight of this adventure.
  
  Now, there isn't all that's right with Mario's Glaxy, so I'd like to just say whil fantastic it's 
 not perfect surely.
  
  Cons:
  -The Camera, while fantastic, will get lose sight of Mario or likely be the reason for a few life 
 losses. (Wait till you do Luigi's Purple Coin Challenge...) 
  -It doesn't have that feeling SM 64 did when you first played, but likely that's because you've 
 experienced Mario in 3D already and 3D gaming in general.
  
  Well that's about it. Hope you enjoy Mario Galaxy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leanitus15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is one of those games that comes around every so often and just blows people's 
 minds. It's addictive, immersive, beautiful, a blast to play, it's Mario, and it's only on the 
 Nintendo Wii. Like many other Nintendo fans out there, I anticipated this game and counted down 
 the days non-stop, and when I picked up on launch week, I was so excited to play it I swear to 
 God I wet myself. The moment I popped it into my Wii and "Super Mario Galaxy" appeared on the screen 
 I thought, "yeah, this is what I've been waiting for." It didn't let me down.
  
  The game kicks off like all Super Mario games before it. King Koopa {Bowser} kidnaps Peach and 
 it's up to you, Mario, to save her. Only this time, you're in space. The game starts off slow as 
 you run into three rabbits on a tiny planet and must find and catch them so they tell you where 
 you are. After that, you meet Rosalina, the woman in charge of the "spaceship" you soon find yourself 
 and the "mama" of the peculiar stars called the Lumas. The first galaxy you visit is called "Good 
 Egg Galaxy" and starts you off on a mission called Dino Piranha where you must find a giant piranha 
 plant and of course destroy it. You'll be doing many missions like this throughout the game in 
 all of the forty different galaxies. There are fifteen main galaxies and 25 sub-galaxies. The main 
 galaxies generally have about 5-7 stars to collect whereas the sub-galaxies generally have about 
 1-2. Each galaxy is unique in it's own way and will have you doing and using different things to 
 complete them. 
  
  In Galaxy you can use different costumes that all have different styles and uses. There is the 
 boo costume which turns Mario into a boo, the bee costume which dresses Mario like a bee with the 
 ability to fly, the spring costume which lets you bounce around, the fire costume... figure it out 
 and my personal favourite, the ice costume. They all work in different ways and will constantly 
 appear throughout the game. In a level which I think is called "Freezeflame Galaxy" you will consistenly 
 be alternating between the fire and ice costumes to do different tasks, such as skating or lighting 
 torches, very cool.
  
  The games visuals are beautiful and each level is unique in every way. My personal favourite is 
 "Toytime Galaxy". It, like so many of the levels, immerses you into the game with it's constant 
 detail and vibrant colours. Not a single part of this game was ignored, Shigeru Miyamoto made sure 
 that absolutely every single last detail was put into every area in the game. The moods set by 
 each level are constantly changing and so are the challenges so the game never gets repetitive. 
 One level will have you rolling around a golf course on a giant plastic ball where another will 
 have you surfing down a floating waterfall on a manta ray. This game is so brilliant, it never 
 ceases to amuse and there is always something new around the corner. It's one of the best, if not 
 THE best, gaming experiences I've ever had.
  
  Do I even have to tell you? If you're one of the Wii owners hiding a rock and you still don't own 
 this, make your life complete and buy it. You won't regret it. And if you do, tell me and give 
 me a good reason why you didn't like it, because I don't understand how anyone could dislike this 
 game unless they're trying to get attention. Super Mario Galaxy is as close as perfection gets 
 on the Wii right now, it's the best game of 2007 and should be played by anyone who has the chance. 
 Thank you so much for to-reading my review. Peace out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mojothebaboon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Waaaaooooo!! Ring a bell? Yes, the happy plumber is back and once again Mario will save Peach who 
 got captured by Bowser......... again ( I mean seriously, If i were her id really think about hiring 
 some  That being said The Mario game never had innovative 
 story. Nevertheless they are always fun to play.
  
  
  Thing is this game is not like any other Mario game it is somewhat different, in a really nice 
 way. Nintendo was able to once again revive Mario and bring him to another Era. Graphic Wise, the 
 game is lovely everything is really fluid and bright. All the galaxies are very different and they 
 all have their own charm.
  
  
  The game is just pure pleasure there is a very high chance you will go back to some galaxy you 
 have already finished just to play it again. While Nintendo was able to keep the gameplay really 
 simple its still very fun to play. Its definitely not a game made to make you have a hard time 
 go through it but thats also what makes it unique you dont feel the need to be challenged you just 
 enjoy everything.
  
  The only thing that really keep this game from being perfect is the story, I mean I dont think 
 it would hurt anyone if they just did a different story than the whole Peach Captured / Mario rescue 
 / Game over.
  
  
  Overall its the very best Wii get you will have right now so its an absolute must to anyone who 
 own a Wii.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Innocent_J
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  First off, the graphics are amazing. Everything looks very well detailed, for the wii. Its very 
 colorful and a blast to watch and play. The level designs are amazing. The controls are very comfortable 
 and easy to learn. The game is pretty big but not overwhelming. 
  
  
  I don't know about everyone else but after collecting a couple power stars, i don't feel like playing 
 anymore, but that's probably because i get bored with things very fast.
  
  There are a lot of new things in this Mario game. He has some new suits to try out and they look 
 ad work great!
  
  The difficulty of the game is pretty easy but for those who aren't comfortable with the wii yet, 
 it may be a challenge. It didn't take me very long to figure things out or to beat the bosses. 
 O by the way, the boss fights are very fun and pretty easy.
  
  Overall, its a very solid game. Near perfect. The only reason i didn't give it a perfect 10 is 
 because i get bored of it after a while, but i always come back.
  
  Anyone who likes Mario will enjoy this game very much.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rockuto
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for sooooooooooooo long to get Super Mario Galaxy. When I finally did, it was 
 everything that I expected and then some. The progression of each world is easy to follow. It's 
 just one right after the other and you do not get bored at all. It was fun and i had a blast playing 
 Super Mario Galaxy. 
  The only problem I had with the game was that it just made me dizzy at first. I was not used to 
 the 3-D effect, but you get used to it and it makes it more in-depth. 
  
  p. s. killing words just so I can have 100 words minimum for this review. Oh never mind, it has 
 to be at least 800 characters minimum now. If they wanted 800 characters, why can't they just say 
 it. I do not see the point of having a minimum amount of words or characters for a review. Its 
 just an opinion, that should not be limited to any amount of anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spectacular66
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2008 5:39 am PT
Review:  Nintendo does it again with the incredible Super Mario Galaxy! If the advertising campaign for 
 this game were a little more fleshed out, it would have sold a lot faster. This is one Mario game 
 Mario fans will NOT want to miss.
  
  Nintendo made the right choice of leaving this game to their new Tokyo studio since they have been 
 exceptionally good when it comes to graphics. 2005's Donkey Kong Jungle Beat was their first project 
 which was both fun to play and was tasty eye candy. Nintendo's studio took that work and ran with 
 it on the Wii, giving us stunningly beautiful worlds to explore along with great-looking character 
 models. I loved the way Mario looked in the game. Just awesome.
  
  Super Mario Sunshine was Mario's last 3D platformer, and it didn't sit too well with many fans, 
 including me. Sure, it was fun to be able to run around these island locales with a water pack, 
 but it got boring in some places. I enjoyed the "secret" levels that the courses held however.
 
  
  As for the music, it totally kicked some behind. Many fans have scrambled for the soundtrack ever 
 since the game's release, managing to grab a song or two. Even though four out of the 28 songs 
 in the game were composed by Koji Kondo (doh!) the other songs manage to hold up extremely well. 
 The songs are each funny. dangerous and even epic in some places. You feel big when stomping your 
 way through levels like Buoy Base Galaxy and Gusty Garden Galaxy. It's amazing!
  
  As for my dislikes about this game... Getting the first 60 Stars was, yes, easy. If it were more 
 of a style like Super Mario 64 (70 Stars) I would have liked it a little better but it doesn't 
 bother me much. Some levels were simply easier than others but some could get brutal on you. This 
 is what makes the remaining 60 Stars harder. If I can recall, after getting all the Stars in the 
 game, a death counter appears by the date in your file name and I had about 242 deaths in total 
 with Mario. That's how hard the game may get on that final mission. I liked that. And who says 
 the story needed more fleshing out? I thought it was OK, and as for Rosalina's story, although 
 some may have called it "irrevalant", was not a burden at all to me. I found it to be a nice distraction 
 from my adventuring. 
  
  This game is very nice. Anyone who doesn't have it might as well sell off their Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BenevolentEnemy
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2008 3:33 am PT
Review:  Wow.
  
  I've finished this game for the first time, and let me just say that I want to play it again already. 
 I have one or two quibbles, of course, but all in all a great game.
  
  My problems were thus:
  
  First and foremost, the storyline. What the hell. It by no means 
 makes the game unplayable and can just be totally ignored, but I'm not a very tolerant person, 
 as a rule. It is needlessly timewasting, unintelligible drivel.
  
  Secondly, the voice acting. Mario and Peach just grate on my nerves. Luigi was no much better. 
 Toads sound effects made me laugh however, as he sounds like a pedophile.
  
  Thirdly, the storyline. It's that bad, that I really feel I need to mention it twice. The graphics 
 are pretty good, but during some of the unskippable cinematics I could not help but feel a blank 
 screen would be less confusing, less corny, and just overall better in every way.
  
  But I'm a pessimist, and only enjoy beeyatching about things. Given I only had three concerns with 
 the game, it deserves at least a 9.5 and is worth buying. Buy it... Buy it now. Just imagine how 
 good it must be... Oh and what the Gamespot review said about the costumes is untrue (unless they're 
 talking about Spring Mario, in which case, FULLY JUSTIFIED!) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dion4ever
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is one of those games you can't miss as it shines the matter what you think 
 about it. It is certainly a must play or at least a rent. Super Mario Galaxy is just so amazing 
 and fun that you can't describe it until you've played it. 
  
  Super Mario Galaxy has everything a gamer needs so lets start with the first thing most gamers 
 care about, which is ultimately gameplay. 
  
  As it is well known, most or all Mario games have great game play and this is where most or all 
 Mario games stand out in. Super Mario Galaxy offers mainly Platforming sequences, but don't let 
 that take you down. It has a bit of everything. Action, adventure, platforming, puzzles, racing 
 (not with cars, though that doesn't really matter) , swimming, intense boss battles and much more. 
 But the best thing about all that is that it's all wrapped up in one game. The actions are very 
 responsive, so all you need is good timing whether it'd be swinging your controller to hit something 
 or pressing the "A" button to jump. 
  
  The graphics in Super Mario Galaxy are maybe not be of top quality detail like some PS3 or Xbox 
 360 games, but they are very good and the visuals are very colorful and bright. There are at some 
 points, extraordinary views that you can't ignore and at time it is so beautiful you would stand 
 there for a couple of seconds just taking a glance or even a minute or two!
  
  The story is also good in it's own way. Sure there's Bowser the same boss and all, but this time 
 your trying to save galaxies from being destroyed and there are a lot of new things happening which 
 I will let you discover! 
  
  One of the best things about Super Mario Galaxy is the creations. With each new passing Galaxy 
 you will find lots of new things and puzzles. Sometimes you may just go into a Galaxy full of sweets 
 or sometimes a beach. There are also new abilities Mario has which are also very creative, but 
 I won't spoil them for you. 
  
  Last but not least the time spent. I may have said 100 hours or more, but that means in total, 
 playing the game over and over again. If it's finishing the game once then it'll take you about 
 20 - 40 - 100 hours to complete depending on how experienced you are as a gamer. But it's not enough 
 to play through once and even if you don't want to play through again there are unlock ables to 
 unlock or hidden things to try. You'll always want to collect all the stars as with each new passing 
 star you will get to explore new places within the Galaxy or try new things. 
  
  Anything bad about this game? Nope nothing at all, at least to me. There might be a few dislikes 
 here and there for others, but as far as I can see this game is basically perfect. 
  
  Overall, as I have mentioned before, this game is definitely the best game on the Wii, if not, 
 one of the best games yet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgres077
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw videos of Super Mario Galaxy, I knew why I bout the Nintendo Wii. Super Mario 
 Galaxy is by far the best Wii title to date, and is a must have for all Wii owners.
  
  The gameplay in this game is simply amazing. You will be guiding Mario through dozens of galaxies, 
 and hundreds of unique and innovative worlds. Along your quest to once again save Prinecss Peach 
 you will be facing the standard enemies - Bowser, Petey Piranha's, Boo's, Gooba's, and a few more 
 of the classics. In this game you will be spinning, and stomping your way through the enemies and 
 working your way through the puzzles which make up the planets you will be traveling to.
  
  While playing this game you will notice the precision of the controls. When you make a move on 
 the Wiimote, Mario immediately responds in exactly the way you hoped he would. There are no control 
 issues whatever, and the Wiimote is used just enough to enhance the gameplay. With the Wiimote 
 you will be spinning your enemies by shaking the Wiimote or Nunchuck, or shooting the Star Bits 
 you will be collecting along the way.
  
  As well as having amazing controls Super Mario Galaxy boats the best graphics we've seen on the 
 Nintendo Wii. All of the planets are beautiful, and have a surprising amount of detail, especially 
 in the backgrounds and water. Mario himself looks especially nice, and all of the characters have 
 a nice glimmer and shine that make Super Mario Galaxy visually appealing.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy may seem a little easy at the beginning, however as you collect more stars the 
 levels become increasingly difficult. After you've collected all 105 of the standard stars, you 
 will then collect the 15 remaining stars by collecting 100 Purple Coins in selected levels. These 
 last 15 stars are extremely difficult, and will require all of the skill you have built up gathering 
 the previous 105 stars.
  
  Simply put, if you own a Nintendo WIi and you don't own this game you need to go out and pick it 
 up. Super Mario Galaxy will give you everything you want from a Wii game, and then some. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  I grew up with Mario. I played all the greats, Super Mario Bros., Super Mario Bros. 3, Super Mario 
 World 1/2, and of course, Super Mario 64. I also played the somewhat of a letdown, Super Mario 
 Sunshine. I'm happy and proud to announce that Mario is back as the king of platformers and is 
 a huge step up from Super Mario Sunshine.
  
  The graphics certainly draw some attention with their high amounts of shine. It really is about 
 as realistic as you could go without it loosing that Mario charm. Everything looks fantastic, almost 
 as if you're living in a beautiful dream world. In fact, you kind of are. All of the environments 
 I came across were great, and it helps a lot that there are so many different kinds to keep things 
 looking fresh.
  
  The thing about this game that really stood out to me was the amazing music. The whole thing was 
 done with an amazing professional orchestra and it sounds fantastic. They've remade you're favorite 
 old Mario songs and thrown in some new ones that are certainly welcome. The music is calm and relaxing 
 at times, goofy and nostalgic at others, and epic when it needs to be. The soundtrack really adds 
 to the experience.
  
  The fantastic Mario game play remains intact here, and works surprisingly well with the Wiimote. 
 The developers made a smart move in not pushing the Wiimote on the game, but at the same time I'd 
 say the parts they did integrate it, like combat and gathering and shooting star bits, are still 
 great. The platforming is top notch and is probably the best I've seen in a long time. Its difficult 
 enough to pose a challenge, but not to the point where you get truly frustrated. Not until the 
 end anyway, it did start to get tough in the last terrace. Some seriously cool stuff happens in 
 this game, one minute you're in the sky traveling on a giant worm from apple to apple, the next 
 you're in an ice world, using your Ice Mario powers to freeze water so you can use it a step. That's 
 the other thing that is so great, there are a bunch of new cool suits, and all of them have their 
 uses in finishing the level.
  
  So I hope you enjoyed the review, and I hope it has prompted you to at least go out and try this 
 amazing game. It really did give me the feeling of falling in love with video games all over again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zerostatic0
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  I'm going to keep this short and sweet. Super Mario Galaxy has the most varied game play of any 
 game I have ever played. 
  
  Furthermore it excels at everything it throws at you. 
  
  The art and graphics are beautiful, polished, and just perfect. Every locale is bursting with life 
 and color.
  
  The music has compelled me so much that for the first time I want to buy a video game soundtrack. 
 
  
  There is tons to do, tons to see, and you are going to love every minute of it. Wonders are around 
 every corner, inside every nook, and under every cranny.
  
  Nintendo nailed the difficulty in that it never becomes frustrating, and allows a child to beat 
 the game (with 60 stars) and at the same time it will challenge a hardcore gamer (to get all 120 
 stars) .
  
  This game is a must buy, not only for Wii owners but for Video game fans. It will remind you of 
 when you were young, before the days of Grand Theft Auto or Resident Evil. It will remind you of 
 that first Mario Platformer that made you love games (whether it was Super Mario Brothers, Super 
 Mario Brothers 3, Super Mario World, or Super Mario 64) . It will remind you of why you love this 
 hobby. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NarutoRoxPie
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  I thought this was just going to be your regular Mario game you know, jumping around and killing 
 people for no reason whatsoever. But when I looked online I saw that this was going to be very 
 underhyped. I was wrong, when I got it on the 3rd day it came out I was very superised on how awesome 
 this game is! This will be the only game for a while that you can play in space AND go off the 
 'edge' of a place and still move! For a Wii game this has very good graphics. I reccomend this 
 to everyone that has a Wii. The best Galaxy I would say is, Bowser's Galaxy Reactor. No other galaxy 
 has gravitational pulls, from a beam of light! If you have a Wii and don't own this game, you're 
 missing out on a Universe full of gaming adventures. The first galaxy, Good Egg Galaxy, is better 
 then most first levels on any other game. (Not including Halo 3) Buy this game, play it, be stunned, 
 have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  I'm just getting around to doing a review of Super Mario Galaxy, a game I beat no too long ago. 
 SMG is another one of Nintendo's flagship titles that shows that they still have the ability to 
 make one hell of a game in almost every way, key word here is almost. 
  
  
  There's no doubt that SMG is the best looking game on the Wii console. There's never any slow down, 
 any clipping and everything is bright, pretty smooth and colorful. To make my compliments short; 
 this game is highly polished in the graphical portion. There is a ton of friendly and not so friendly 
 faces that show up that are easily recognizable and there are some well designed new ones that 
 fit right in with the rest of the crowd also added to the mix.
  
  
  For the most part, the characters in Galaxy are of the silent type. Very few words are actually 
 spoken aloud, but when they are what you would expect "everyone" rated game to sound like. The 
 music on the other hand is gorgeously orchestrated with highlights being the old sounds redone. 
 
  
  
  The gameplay is always where Nintendo shines. Galaxy tends to take platforming gameplay to a whole 
 new level by using small planets and the physics of gravity. These elements may not seem like they 
 would be much but with a bit of creativity, Nintendo pulls off some amazing things. It should also 
 go without saying that the Wii-mote is used flawlessly in this game. There area also a few power-ups 
 to help you along the way. Finding these in certain levels transforms Mario into things such as 
 a bee, ghost, Ice Mario who is able to skate on water and of course fire Mario. Each of these alternate 
 forms assists Mario in overcoming obstacles that only those forms can overcome. 
  
  
  These obstacles, while rarely ever brain racking puzzles are usually more about the dexterity with 
 a Wii-mote as Nintendo draws on all of their platforming expertise over the years. Lava, ice, pitfalls, 
 rotating or revolving floors, pretty much all stops are thrown out making this a little bit challenging 
 but never frustratingly difficult.
  
  
  If you noticed that I said that there are lava and ice worlds, that all ties in to the different 
 themed galaxies. There are the staple themes of ice, fire, water, and sand tossed together with 
 a junk world, a garden galaxy and also a hive just to name a few. These planets are all very cohesive 
 in their nature and tend to stick to their theme flawlessly.
  
  
  The only things I found lacking in the gameplay department would be the boss battles and the water 
 portions. The boss battles seemed to pretty easy for the most part, always relying on obvious tactics 
 to defeat these monstrous behemoths. Also, the water portions, or more specifically, the underwater 
 portions were just a pain to control with the Wii-mote. They did get easier after some practice 
 but for a game with all the other portions of control being easy to pick up and intuitive, it's 
 obvious that something just wasn't right and could have been tweaked.
  
  
  Now I have to admit that I enjoyed playing the game a lot, but only for short 1  2 hour bursts. 
 I found the lack of a good story to hinder the amount of time I could spend playing this game in 
 one sitting. I hate to say it but if Nintendo put  the effort into trying to link the gameplay 
 in SMG with an engaging story then this game would have been much more immersive for me. 
  
  
  A lot of people want to say a series such as the Super Mario series, was never known for 
 having a good story so the lack of a good story is a given. I say that that's a poor excuse to 
 skimp out on a big element of a game seeing as the Super Paper Mario stories are at least adequate 
 enough to carry a game. No I don't mean that they have to have an RPG story thrown into a platformer, 
 I would just like a better reason to chase stars 60+ other than "We need them to start our ship 
 so you can save the princess." A perfect game in my book has to have the complete package; gameplay, 
 graphics and story. 
  
  
  While Super Mario Galaxy raises the bar in two out of three of these categories, I'm shamed to 
 admit that the general lack of a good story kept me from immersing myself in the game and hurt 
 my overall enjoyment of it. SMG comes so close though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B1kmatt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Owning a Wii I am looking for the next game to pass the time until Super Smash Bros Brawl comes 
 out and this did it great. Super Mario Galaxy is a truly phenomenal game that just blow me away 
 with its great visual and its awesome game play and it is way better than Sun Shine (Game Cube's 
 Mario game) by a mile. The only things about this game that really angered me about this game is 
 its camera which is controlled automatically and occasionally get in a view I dislike and the fact 
 that it is really easy. The good about it is It Mario, Its fun, and it makes good use of the Wii's 
 graphical power and controller.
  
  The Story is nothing new like every Mario Game Peach is kidnapped by Bowser, Mario must save her 
 you know the drill, but with this one it has a more cosmic space feel to it because you have to 
 go from galaxy to galaxy collecting stars. And in this one you collect stars to power a ship that 
 will bring you to Peach and your final battle with Bowser and meeting familiar faces along the 
 way. Like in every other 3D Mario game you have to collect 60 stars, but those who really want 
 to feel like they beat the game 120+ stars. 
  
  It's the Mario we all know and love and if you don't have this game and are a fan of platforms 
 or are like me and need to kill some time this is highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ifnot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is so awsome! its a gift from heaven. Its Mario, on the Wii, in outerspace! this is a 
 must have game for anyone who has a Wii, and I would by a Wii just for this game. the game is totally 
 original I wonder who thoght of putting Mario in space! well who ever it was is a genius. Super 
 Mario galaxy is the third installment of the 3D Mario Series the others being Super Mario 64 and 
 Super Mario sunshine. the obgect of the game is to go through galaxy's to collect power stars and 
 if you enough power stars you will get a grand star and you need 7 grand stars just to beat the 
 game, and that takes, I'd say 72 hours strate, just to beat the game! and if you want to collect 
 every single power star it will take you a long time, in a good way so you never get bored of the 
 game. Another thing about this game is it brings back memory's of old-school Mario games, this 
 game is great in every way graphics are amazing beautiful sound and music by Koji Kondo. The story 
 is great and the length of the game is perfect. You will never get tired of this game I never did 
 and I highly recommend it for all you gamers out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TGFL
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  Carpenter, Plumber, Golfer, Racer, Baseball-star, King-of-Hoops, and All-Around hero, Mario jumps 
 his way to the Wii in the epic Super Mario Galaxy.
  By-far the best Wii game out there, this one will keep you going for hours. It goes back to that 
 Super Mario 64 style, but with less gravity, many planets, and many new faces. The graphics are 
 stunning, and the orchestrated soundtrack make this game top-notch among its predecessors. However, 
 the gameplay is what makes this game the best of the best. The different gravities and the many 
 planets makes taking a moment to gaze around all the more satisfying. Taking its place quickly 
 as one of the best games out there was not a challenge for SMG. With a decent storyline, and a 
 little extra to explain its origin, this game Is so immersive, you might want to play it again 
 and again. This best-seller is'nt hard to find if you know where to look. I reccomend you get your 
 copy ASAP 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshi_Ghost
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 6:51 am PT
Review:  Mario galaxy sure was that one nintendo game to make the wii a big hit. It sold so many copies 
 and got outstanding reviews from critics everywere. But for me it was too easy to get 10 from me.
 
  
  
  Mario Galaxy finds mario in a interesting galaxy trying to save the princess from bowser again. 
 this time the game is more dark than the other mario games. You travel through many planets trying 
 to get stars and grand stars to go to bowsers secret planet to save peach.
  
  The game has very smooth controls for a wii game. you move with the joystick jump with A and spin 
 attack while shaking the wii mote. Also shaking the wii mote triggers items like the sling pod 
 and the shooting star item to get you up to higher places the great mario could not even jump to. 
 This game has many boss fights too like the dino piranha and my all time favorite the long legged 
 robot. The boss battles will be remembered for a long time. You will also see returning characters 
 like the goombas bullet bills and even kamek.
  
  This game is so oldschool. It has remixed music from mario brothers 3 and the original mario to 
 bring that irrisitble nostaliga chill that goes down your spine as you listen to the remixed class 
 mario music. The game also has an extrodinary soundtrack that is certainly put in the game to blow 
 your mind away.
  
  There are only one faults in the game. The One is that its so dang easy you could get about 60 
 stars in one day if you tried hard enough. 
  
  This game is the must have title for the wii and if oyu dont have it and you own a wii there must 
 be somthing seriously wrong with your head. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: palooka123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  I like this game... First we got the first 3D Mario game in mario 64. That game was hard to beat. 
 They tried and they came up with S***t like super mario sunshine. THAT WAS BAD. Everyone was really 
 disappointed. Then they came out with this 3D platformer... Super Mario Galaxy!! (cheering in backround) 
 Starting out from a wonderful invitation from the always beautiful... (drum roll) Princess Peach!!! 
 (cheering in backround) But then the mighty always feared... BOWSER attacks! (booing in backround) 
 Mario is off to save his girl. He gets thrown into outer space. He meets a beautiful girl named... (drum 
 roll) Rosilina!!! (whistleing in backround) ou go around her floating house shooting to galaxys 
 and getting power stars. The game also features the 2 player ability. Ok the 2 player is not that 
 good but i mean at least they tried. The game rocks in other words. Now you can beat the game with 
 only 60 stars but i like to get all 120! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezzat30
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  The premise for Mario Galaxy begins in fairly well-worn territory. Mario receives a note from his 
 beloved Peach to come to the castle, for she has a special "gift" for him. He arrives, only to 
 walk straight into chaos as Bowser and son arrive in a fleet of airships and use a giant UFO to 
 pluck the Princess' castle right out of the ground. Mario gives chase, but is unable to rescue 
 her before the fearsome twosome jet off into space. This all certainly sounds par for the course, 
 but it's where Mario ends up that gives Mario Galaxy its own flavor. Mario eventually hooks up 
 with a creature called a luma, from a race that looks like some kind of cross between an invincibility 
 star and a headless chicken. The lumas are led by an enigmatic woman named Rosalina, who lives 
 with them on a crazy spaceship called the comet observatory. Mario learns that Bowser has made 
 off with a gaggle of power stars used to power the observatory. To reach Bowser's hideout, Mario 
 has to travel to all the various galaxies in the universe to collect as many power stars as he 
 can in order to power the ship back up, fly to the center of the universe, rescue the princess, 
 and set everything right again. 
  
  Mario 64, anyone? If you played that seminal game, Mario Galaxy's star hunt progression probably 
 sounds familiar to you. But apart from that basic structuring, you can hardly call Mario Galaxy 
 a Mario 64 rehash. If anything, Mario Galaxy simply takes the basics of what made Mario 64 such 
 a dynamite game, and turns them completely crazy. 
  
  The definition of crazy here has a lot to do with gravity and physics. Each galaxy contains a series 
 of little worlds that can't even really be called planets so much as they are floating puzzles. 
 In many of these worlds, Mario can walk just about anywhere. When he lands on a sphere, he can 
 walk all over it, going sideways and upside down in the process. Sometimes you'll simply jump in 
 one area and end up gravitating toward the ceiling or walls or even another nearby planetoid without 
 even realizing it. Often Mario will need to track down launch stars, which, when you shake the 
 Wii Remote while standing near or inside one, will send you flying to a whole new, previously inaccessible 
 area. There are even sections where you'll be floating through space, using specialized pull stars 
 to hop from area to area, all while floating through the spatial void. 
  
  Practically every galaxy you explore is an absolute joy to experience. The level designs here are 
 top flight in every regard, with tons of clever and sometimes dastardly traps and puzzles for Mario 
 to navigate. The difficulty doesn't start off terribly high, but as time goes on, the game ramps 
 up nicely, building the challenge steadily until the final areas, which, though perhaps a bit frustrating 
 to inexperienced players, provides the exact sort of tough workout you've come to expect from a 
 Mario adventure. But even aside from the challenge level, simply exploring all these various galaxies 
 is half the fun. Whether you're floating from land mass to land mass on a giant spinning flower, 
 running frantically around a giant series of platforms that shrink to nothing the first time you 
 touch them, or taking on one of several terrific 2D side-scrolling areas reminiscent of New Super 
 Mario Bros. for the DS, you won't be wanting for variety while playing through Galaxy's dozens 
 of levels. 
  
  In a sort of nod to the suit-happy gameplay of Super Mario Bros. 3, Mario can don a number of different 
 costumes that give him new abilities. For instance, in several levels, Mario can take on the abilities 
 of a bee, buzzing around through the air via his new pair of wings, and wall-climbing specific 
 honeycombed areas of the environment. With others, Mario can freeze water to walk over it, launch 
 fireballs (natch) , fly, wrap himself in a Mario-sized spring and jump to great heights, turn invincible 
 (natch, again) and even turn into one of those pesky boos, allowing him to float around and pass 
 through some solid walls. In most cases, the game takes great advantage of these abilities in the 
 context of each level. A few involving the bee suit are a bit frustrating (given that you lose 
 the suit when you touch water) and the spring suit is kind of a pain to control given Mario's perpetual 
 bounciness, but otherwise, these abilities add a great dimension to the already excellent gameplay
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dudester52
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  Mario Galaxy is very kiddy but is one of the best games for wii. Most of the good games for wii 
 are kiddy but fun and addictive. The normal games on wii are much better on other systems than 
 on the wii but the games made for wii are awesome. This game and monkey ball are so dank. The wii 
 sports game is pretty dank too. Wii has got it right when it comes to interactivity. I love to 
 fiend out to this game and you should too. Gamespot's professional reviewers are usually more accurate 
 than users reviews and they are in this case too. Anyone that doesn't like this game probably has 
 never even played it. Very very 
 
  
 
  
 
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hassam7
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2008 12:58 am PT
Review:  Wow this game is the best game I've ever played! EVER!!!! I mean the story is sooooo engaging and 
 each level you play is soooooooo much fun especially the levels in the "Kitchen" dome. I love this 
 game soooo much! I never get sick of it, he game is a masterpiece and is a classic! I love mario! (but 
 hate luigi!)
  
  The game has over 100 hours of gameplay and has incredible characters and visual design and it 
 is like such a fun game! The graphics are quite impressive and the models look better than ever. 
 I jusrt simply love the design of the planets and I just love the way they made Mario's incredible 
 suits. All the levels are extremely fun and it is just..... I'm speechless!
  
  I just love the lumas so much eventhough they are always bragging for star bits, but they are the 
 most cutest thing I've ever seen!
  
  I give this game a full 10! Eventhough it deserves much more!
  
  And at the end of the game 
 during the credits, I love it how Mario says, "Thank you for playing ma gayme!" LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xlrb5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 4:21 am PT
Review:  This game is the best Mario game I have ever played. This game is lots of fun. Collecting power 
 stars and the really BIG stars to power the observation deck. Every time I opened a new part of 
 the observation deck I was automatically able to go to the boss. Beating Bowser and Baby Bowser 
 were so easy. I mean come on Bowser when are you going to realize no matter how hard you try your 
 always going to get your butt kick by everyones' favorite plumber Mario!!! I mean you have to admit 
 that Bowser is starting to get desperate over trying to kidnap Princess Peach. You do have to admit 
 Bowser is starting to become annoying, what with his "My plans will not fail this time." and "Peach 
 will be mine this time and I will finally defeat my rival Mario." My friends and I are always joking 
 about Bowser and his stupid plans to take over the kingdom or the galaxy!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NirdBerd
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2008 3:47 am PT
Review:  This game is what everyone says it is, in their own reviews too, everyone is lovin' this game, 
 and I am too, and so should you!
  
  Super Mario Galaxy has, just about everything you'd possibly expect in a Mario game, it's fantastic 
 levels, Fire Mario, Ice Mario, Rainbow Mario, countless pretty levels, even the dull levels are 
 pretty, this game even features some, very little, but there is, some classic Mario music in few 
 of these levels that you may have heard in Super Mario Bros. 3 on the NES/SNES
  
  Regardless of you being a Mario fanatic, this game will make you expect more and more from Mario, 
 and you will start lovin' Mario by the minute.
  
  This game should be in your Top 10 Wii games, and your wishlist if you down currently own it.
 
  
  SMG is a game you CANNOT miss out on.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scarface389
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 2:24 am PT
Review:  Mario journeys to a galaxy to save peach from Bowser this time in one of his most hyped up adventures. 
 Does this game disappoint? Not at all...
  First the graphics are splendid and are some of the best on the Wii (not that the wii has released 
 any games that blow the mind in terms of graphics) and they work well. The game works well with 
 any TV, its just brilliant.
  Second the sound. the sound is not any different from previous Mario games. It is the same Nintendo 
 sound that they have used before but without it Mario wouldn't seem like Mario which makes it good. 
 
  Third the story. Don't buy a Mario game looking for story as it will disappoint. Bowser kidnaps 
 Peach and brings her to some mysterious place. Nothing new. And we can all predict that Bowser 
 will get defeated by Peach once again and Mario will be rewarded by Peach with a cake or something. 
 I'm guessing coz i haven't finished the game yet. There is a mini story in a library in the game 
 which is totally irrelevant to the actual game and is actually quite boring, but you are not forced 
 to read it so there is no problem.
  The lifespan of the game is good (even though I haven't finished it) . You can collect up to 120 
 stars but you can get like 3 stars in one level.
  The design is superb, gravity effects on the planetoids is genius and works extremely well. i do 
 have one complaint though. There are not enough big environments and there are to many small planets 
 that you jump to.
  
  Anyway to finish off Mario Galaxy is one of the best games out right now and even one of the best 
 games of all time. If you have a wii go out now and buy this game. The sole purpose of the wii 
 is to deliver games like this. 
  Hopefully they will make another super Mario game on th4e wii and don't wait for the next Nintendo 
 console to release it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JugHead23
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  OMG this game is amazing. Its the best game for the Wii hands down. Its fun and it is challenging. 
 This is something someone will not be bored of regardless of what type of gamer you are! THis game 
 is worthy enough of being game of the year. The puzzles are good enough to keep a person concentrated 
 for a while and its frustrating too which makes it fun. The only letdown about this game is that 
 it did not come out sooner. Hopefully Nintendo will come out with another sequal to this game because 
 this is worth it. Definetly get this game if you own a Wii and if you don't then sell your Wii. 
 I'm serious. The game is long so it will keep a person busy for a while and it has some humor suitable 
 for any given age. The mission such as swimming with manta rays and racing a clone of Mario is 
 fun as well. Man i really don't know what to tell you except just buy the game. If you dont have 
 enough money just sell some blood rake a lawn or sell peices of your body to science. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shillster89
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is without a doubt the best, or one of the best Wii games since the consoles 
 release. First off, the graphics are some of the best to be seen on the Wii, especially the lighting 
 effects, which makes everything look beautiful. the music and sound effects are also very epic 
 and engrossing, and make the whole experience so much more enjoyable. The controls are great, and 
 easy to get a hang of. The story could have been stronger, but by no means does it disappoint. 
 The level design is absolutely astounding, and with a lot of different levels, all different in 
 their own way, you will have a ton of fun going through this game. The gameplay is probably the 
 best part of the game. From familiar platform and old-shcool Mario game elements, to new and exciting 
 ways to play each level, there is a lot of fun to be had with Super Mario Galaxy. Over-all Super 
 Mario Galaxy is a must have for Wii owners, and for those of you who have never played this game, 
 you really don't know what your missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshicon8
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  It's safe to say that this is my favorite Wii game and I recomend it to any Mario fan! This is 
 also is like "Super Mario Sunshine" because of the way you choose levels. This game has a great 
 soundtrack, excelent gameplay and great graphics, also fun boss battles. I would be surprised if 
 anyone didn't like this game. I give it 10 out of 10, top of the list, must get. And if you don't 
 like it at first give it a chance and it will grow on you. I LOVE THIS GAME!!!! You never know 
 you could start liking the Mario series from this game. If you are a die hard Mario fan you'll 
 love this game (like me) ! I played for 29 hours in the first week I had it, and got 57 Power Stars. 
 If you don't like this game I would say: "What are you thinking?" If you want a Wii, DEFINITELY 
 GET THIS GAME!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cpcoasterfan
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  This game was the most fun I have had playing a game in a long time. Most games you are just trying 
 to beat for the sake of beating, and I believe many have lost the element of just having a good 
 time with no stress. Galaxy brings that fun factor back as sure its a game you want to beat, but 
 the whole time I just kept thinking how entertaining it was and how I really did not want it to 
 end. 
  Every level looks amazing and it should be a lesson to all developers that the wii can have spectacular 
 graphics. Even with the clean look that is just a bonus to the design and gameplay involved. I 
 could not believe how varied every level was and how each one was a new adventure. The new suits 
 really add a whole new dimension to many levels, as do all the mechanics dealing with gravity. 
 Nintendo has taken this concept to the max, and it makes for the most unique game I have ever played. 
 The best part is as the game progresses, you find new aspects that deal with the gravity and how 
 to use it to get the stars. 
  Overall I cannot say enough to go buy this game if you don't have it. I consider this my favorite 
 wii game to date and one I will probably playing 20 years from now. It is the true sequel to Mario 
 64, and it takes the 3D concept to a who new level with all the different galaxies. Mario does 
 not dissapoint in this amazing adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicSabre
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 11:43 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I have played in a long time. It combines all the best elements from 
 the previous Mario games and the puts it on steroids to create one the best games around.
  
  The Graphics are colourful and there is enough detail to keep you wanting more, with great 
 models, detailed textures and smooth game play the Wii provides everything you need to keep you 
 entertained for hours.
  
  With great worlds brought back from Super Mario Bros 3 and given new life you will feel a sense 
 of nostalgia without feeling like you have played this before. The gameplay is changing constantly 
 keeping you in front of the screen for hours at a time, and with an ever increasing difficulty 
 you will feel a sense of accomplishment for finishing those last few tricky stages.
  
  Although the story line is the same as in every other Mario game, I wouldn't want it to be anything 
 else. If you are a fan of any other Mario game there is no doubt that you will absolutely love 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: USS-Voyager
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is one of the years best games without a doubt, although there were a few things 
 that kept it from perfection. First of all, the level design was excellent, and the levels had 
 a pretty good variety to them, but a lot of the levels felt like they started getting slightly 
 redundant. It isn't a huge problem, but it does keep it from getting a 10 in my perspective. The 
 whole gravity thing they had in the game was awesome! It was fun to mess around with, but sometimes 
 when you are trying to jump to a nearby platform, instead of making the jump you will get sucked 
 back under to the bottom of the platform you were jumping from, which is kind of annoying. There 
 is plenty of stars to get in the game which also obviously means a lot of playing time, which always 
 is good. The graphics of this game are absolutelyamazing, they would be even better in HD but for 
 the wii they are very very good. Even though this game has a few MINOR problems it is still one 
 of the best games of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geo888
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  There is much to love about Super Mario Galaxy. So much ,in fact, that its hard to narrow down 
 one specific thing. Is it the gameplay, the controls, or the relatively beautiful graphics? Actually, 
 its all of those things coming together to create a game that is nothing short of a masterpiece.
 
  
  It starts off as a typical Mario game, princess Peach is kidnapped by Bowser, but guess who is 
 supposed to save her. You, the Italian plumber known as Mario. 
  
  Being a Mario game you cant really expect much of a story, but at least Nintendo trys with a small, 
 and optional, storyline. Its a nice touch that doesn't take anything away from the game, but rather 
 adds to it. 
  
  Like every other Mario game, your goal is to collect 120 stars. The cool thing that Nintendo did 
 is that you can finish the game at 60 stars. It gives the player a feeling of accomplishment collecting 
 only half of the 120 stars if they get too frustrated trying to collect all of them, which can 
 get very difficult.
  
  The thing that really makes this Mario game stick out as the most different and revolutionary is 
 the gameplay. It has both 2-D and 3-D platforming ,but there's a twist. Instead of having a flat 
 plane to run around on, you have spheres where you can run around the entire planet without falling 
 off the edge. This can be a little disorienting at times, but once you get used to it you start 
 to like it. This isn't the entire gameplay, which is good because it keeps the mechanic fresh every 
 time you see it. There are moments where it becomes like a 2-D Mario game, and there are also moments 
 where it plays like Super Mario 64.
  
  Multiplayer in a Mario game? It may sound like a bad idea, but the way they implement it is great. 
 Its a drop in drop out system where the second player is a helper to the main player. The second 
 player has the ability to stun enemies, make Mario jump, and shoot star bits at the enemies. This 
 may not seem very fun, and it probably wont be if you play games often or like to be in control, 
 but this is a great way for other family members to play. Its also nice if you are stuck on a level, 
 a friend can make you jump higher, which is very helpful on some of the difficult later levels. 
 
  
  Unlike most Wii games, Mario Galaxy takes advantage of the motion sensing in a non-gimmicky way. 
 The main attack of Mario is a spin attack not much different than Crash Bandicoot's. The way you 
 use this is by flicking the Wii remote left or right. This feels very natural, and adds to the 
 games feeling of immersion by making you flick harder for different situations. I found myself 
 subconsciously flicking the remote harder when breaking crystals because it felt natural. The signature 
 jump move is activated by pushing the A button. The button press keeps the classic feel of Mario, 
 which is a nice touch. I'm glad that Nintendo kept the classic button press in the game. 
  
  Everyone admits that the Wii isn't the powerhouse of this generation, even Nintendo admits 
 it, but Mario Galaxy proves that you can make the most of what you are given and still produce 
 more than acceptable visuals. They're the best on the Wii, and sets the bar high for future 1st 
 and 3rd party games. 
  The sound in galaxy is amazing. A fully orchestrated soundtrack consists of both classic remixes, 
 and catchy new ones. Theres the occasional voice acting, but it cant really be considered voice 
 acting. Some of the characters speak the first word in their dialogue, but don't say anything else, 
 leaving you to read the rest. This is a little weird and makes you wonder why they put it in if 
 they weren't going to fully voice act it. 
  
  Overall, Mario galaxy is an experience that should be had by everybody. It is proof that the Wii 
 isn't just for non gamers, it gets extremely frustrating toward the end ,which only a hardcore 
 Mario fan would bear to play through. It also proves that Wii games don't need to look like a cell 
 phone game, hopefully this will pressure 3rd parties into making real games for the Wii, not just 
 mini game collections. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Nas3k
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Overall Super Mario Galaxy is a great platformer and damn well worth it. The amazing graphic design, 
 great controls, and fun gameplay contribute to this epic game. 
  
  There many, many new elements on the table this game around in the mario universe. New power-ups 
 such as ice Mario, bee Mario, spring Mario, and boo Mario. The ice mario power-up is quite nice 
 and brings some creativity to the game during those certain levels this is available. Creating 
 an ice path along water and skating on it as well is truly fun. The bee Mario power-up is rather 
 short-lasting but extremely helpful. Flying to un-reachable places and discovering all sorts of 
 new things is a great feeling. The spring Mario power-up is quite well... REALLY ****ING IRRITATING 
 to control. But will get you to even higher places than bee Mario and it's kind of funny seeing 
 Mario bouncing around like that. Finally, the boo Mario is a fun useful power-up, but sadly rarely 
 ever found in the game. Heh, other boos will fall in love with you. 
  
  The gameplay is very fun and will keep you interested long enough to realize you've been playing 
 straight for the past few hours. With slick controls, and a long interesting story (even though 
 at most it's not very orginal) that'll remind you of the good ol' days with Super Mario 64. Two 
 player could've been more interesting rather than player two just collecting/shooting star bits. 
 The boss battles such as the final one are rather easy and dissapointing. But are still fun. The 
 game keeps a long attention span with so many stars to go out for. After finding all 120, and beating 
 bowser... you'll find a quite odd ending, or restart, if you will. I won't give anything away though.... 
 ;)
  
  Thus an end to my rather short review. Took me a month to get around to writing this. Thanks for 
 reading my opinion on the yet small section of the game I spoke of in Super Mario Galaxy. Happy 
 gaming!
  
  -Lord Nas3k 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatman2006
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  one of the best wii games i have played, no wait THE best game i have playde on the wii, the graphics, 
 the levels, the story, all are fantastic!
  
  i first saw mario galaxy on gamespot and didn't think that it looked that good, i then looked at 
 some of the trailers and movies, and i thought that it was pretty good so i thought i would buy 
 it, so i did played it for a few days, did a few levels and i got so attached i have a record of 
 playing it for 22 hours straight.
  
  first the story, at the beginning you are going to a party for a festival that the princess has 
 invited you to, and then princess peach gets kidnapped by bowser (again!) , so you get taken into 
 space where you end up on a kind of space station that has gateways into galaxies all over the 
 universe which you use to go to levels. i won't tell you too much as i don't want to spoil it for 
 you! hehe
  
  second the graphics, the graphics in this mario i would have to say are the best i've seen in a 
 mario game for definite! the detail on the grass, the detail on the stars and the detail on the 
 charecters are all superb down to the last drop of water the graphics are great!
  
  and now for the gameplay, the controls for mario is good but not used to its full potential you 
 only use the motion in the controls for a few things like spinning and ice skating (which is really 
 fun!) , but still the things that you have to do to get the stars is great they kept to the same 
 moves that mario does in super mario 64 but thrown in some more tricks such as flying, spinning 
 and skating. this game does have the essense of a good game but needed some more developing, it 
 does deserve to be number 1 on wii but if it was developed a bit more could get number 1 in all. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradberry9
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 22, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is by no means a bad game, it is a pretty decent game. But to call it the "best 
 game ever created" or a "masterpiece" is simply ludicrous. It basically is a rehash of SM64 with 
 very dumbed down mechanics and level objectives. Since other reviews have already explained the 
 gameplay and such, I will express some of the features that really dragged the game down.
  
  One enjoyable aspect of SM64 for me was the uncertainty going into each level. You were given 
 a very vague objective and expected to discover the meaning of it to obtain a star. In SMG, Nintendo 
 expects very little of you. Every objective is cleared given (every level begins with a flyover 
 showing you exactly where the star is) . While there are some instances of extremely light puzzle 
 solving, most of the level designs are extremely linear and just not very rewarding. 
  
  This all ties in with the overall ease of the game. I collected all 120 stars and am about halfway 
 through the Luigi run. None of them were difficult. I sort of was lulled to sleep by some of the 
 levels; not even having to think and just trouncing through them. This caused deaths on some of 
 the harder levels, but a little concentration and all the stars are quite easily retrieved.
  
  The hub in SMG is just horribly dull. SM64 had many secrets to discover within and around the 
 mansion. The SMG hub just has hardly anything to offer. Sure it looks nice and is laid out well, 
 but thats not quite enough for me.
  
  I realize where Nintendo was trying to go with the small planets and blasting off and such, but 
 I just never got into it. I would much rather have the sprawling levels of SM64. I felt that they 
 still could have implemented the gravity that is used so effectively throughout the game on larger, 
 more spread out worlds.
  
  People seem to be overlooking these flaws and over-praising; a well-designed, very easy platformer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keating42
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  This is Mario's first true 3D adventure on the Wii, and it is an amazing one.
  Yeah, it is the same Bowser steals Peach storyline, but now Bowser has brought Peach into outer 
 space. It is up again to mario to save her. The level designs in this game is great. The whole 
 gravity effect where you can walk on the underside of things and stuff adds to the fun of the game. 
 The controls are sharp and easy to learn, even if you are shaking the Wiimote constantly. The game 
 has great music that you will be humming for days to come. The graphics make this the greatest 
 looking game on the Wii. There is almost no problems with this game, except for the occasional 
 annoying level. Even know the Co-Star mode is not that great, it is a nice addition for other players 
 to use to collect the star bits. There is a large amount of things to do in this game that will 
 keep you busy getting 120 stars. Super Mario Galaxy truely is the next Mario 64. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  We used to be full of such wide-eyed wonderment, such hope of discovery. Back before mankind reached 
 for the stars, we would stare wistfully into the black. 
  
  "What's up there?" we would say. "It could be anything! Imagine!" 
  And we imagined wondrous 
 things and celebrated in the creation of art, and music, and literature. And we probably did a 
 little dance.
  
  Then we built space rockets and breached the sky. And in space we found much dust and many, many 
 rocks. And some men with thick glasses and lab coats went "Hmmmm" quite a lot. And we were all 
 like "What?" and the men in lab coats said "Fascinating" and so we were like "WHAT?" and they 
 explained why it was so fascinating, but really it wasn't fascinating at all.
  
  Now, if we had found crazy space penguins who surf on space manta rays, conversed with space-faring 
 intelligent mushrooms, and gone upside-down ice-skating on a donut-shaped mini-moon, maybe we'd 
 still be excited about the possibilities.
  
  The real joy of Super Mario Galaxy is that it engages that sense of wonder which we've lacked for 
 so long. As you sit down to start a session, you find yourself thinking "What will I find next? 
 What absolute craziness can I discover?" and you find yourself salivating at the prospect because 
 for the first time ever you have absolutely no idea.
  
  Normally your imagination has its limits imposed by basic rule sets  even if that limit is merely 
 that you know you're expecting something in three dimensions with something approaching normal 
 gravitational behaviour, and a clear idea of up and down. Sure, in games you can often be wondering 
 what you'll see next - but you've always got a rough outline. It can't be anything. But in Super 
 Mario Galaxy it really can, and usually is.
  
  The setup of Super Mario Galaxy is pretty simple. It's Super Mario. In Space. After Princess Peach 
 is kidnapped by a now space-faring Bowser, Mario finds himself in a deep space observatory inhabited 
 by star-folk known as Lumas. One of these creatures imbues Mario with the ability to fly through 
 space unharmed, and he sets off on a mission to rescue captive power stars hidden throughout the 
 universe, take out Bowser and rescue the princess once again.
  
  In doing so Mario is flung from galaxy to galaxy on an adventure where the fun just doesn't stop. 
 It's unrelenting. It's like being repeatedly smacked in the face with a lump of refined joy.
  
  The often innovative game design itself is perfect at best and inspired at worst - free roaming 
 yet so tightly paced that while the game goes at your speed it's never lacking in impetus or direction. 
 Each "galaxy" in the game is a cluster of planetoids or other floating items in space, linked together 
 in a thematic sense (such as the "Freeze Flame Galaxy" - a mixture of hot and cold elements) - 
 and housing one or more elusive power stars. Each planetoid can be tiny or huge and may contain 
 enemies to defeat, collectibles to grab, or tasks to perform in order to progress.
  
  Travel can be by leaping from the gravity pull of one floating platform to the next, by using the 
 wiimote to grab onto distant pull-stars, using sticky sling pods to spak Mario (it's the only "word" 
 that works, trust me) across space to the next platform, using giant flowers to float in wind currents 
 or turning him into an awesome white-gloved helicopter-plumber hybrid - and that's just for starters. 
 Launch stars and sling stars are especially fun, watching Mario approach new destinations from 
 the air (often slingshotting around other planets on route) as he gracefully glides past a series 
 of stunning backdrops.
  
  New abilities are welcome - Mario can now turn into a Bee, a Boo (ghost) and a mustachioed spring 
 (!) , while other power ups unlock Ice Mario and the old favourite Fire Mario. All are superbly 
 integrated into the game play, as are the zelda-style Boss encounters which pop up with reasonable 
 frequency.
  
  Despite the massive amount of moves and new abilities to get to grips with, Super Mario Galaxy 
 controls impeccably - the myriad wiimote-wiggling actions needed to play do not harm the experience 
 in the slightest - if anything they enhance it. This is Nintendo showing the world that their "gimmick" 
 is no such thing and does allow for games with significantly more depth than that displayed in 
 Wii Sports. As a showcase for the motion-sensing abilities of the Wii Super Mario Galaxy is nigh-on 
 perfect.
  
  Once again Nintendo's decision to keep the Wii somewhat underpowered compared to its more expensive 
 rivals is proven to be a smart move - graphics these days are about design not detail, and Super 
 Mario Galaxy's vision, design and general look are nothing short of phenomenal. It's possible nothing 
 on the more powerful Xbox 360 or PS3 has looked this mind-blowingly captivating in 2007. The soundtrack, 
 meanwhile, is one of the best and most diverse we've ever heard, packed with new stuff as well 
 as reworked versions of familiar childhood themes.
  
  Now, I must take a moment to reprimand those of you who think you're too mature for a game like 
 this. Is jacking low riders and whacking street-punks really any more grown up? Super Mario Galaxy 
 is completely suitable for the kids, it's true (so fret not, parents)  but to assume there's nothing 
 there for the older gamer is folly.
  
  Reason being - this isn't childish. It's mad. Playing Super Mario Galaxy is a journey into the 
 collective imagination of the world's most terrifyingly insane creative team. Its Alice in Wonderland 
 meets The Mighty Boosh, in space, while Aldous Huxley does the Macarena wearing a ghillie suit. 
 And it's not terrifying because there's any darkness to the tone, there's not even a hint  this 
 is terrifying because of the sheer scope of the lunacy on display. How can anyone be this mental?
 
  
  The bright primary colours and perky soundtrack do not signify an intended child-only audience 
 in this any more than they do in, say, Yellow Submarine. Super Mario Galaxy is tripping', as they 
 say - a genuine masterpiece of surrealism and absurdism.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is the product of everything Nintendo has learned during its thirty years as 
 the visionary leader of the videogame form. It never puts a foot wrong, and there is nothing that 
 can easily be criticised about it - even if you're looking for it. It breaks so many barriers we're 
 not sure where Nintendo can possibly take Mario, or any series, next. It seems the only limit to 
 what Nintendo can achieve is defined by the screen through which you view your gaming and the only 
 way to top this would be to smash that barrier, and actually pull your physical self into a bizarre 
 universe of adventure and discovery.
  
  So Come back in a couple of years to get clarification on this point, but... yep, I'm going to say 
 it - Super Mario Galaxy is the game of the decade. At least. Maybe it's time to return our collective 
 gaze to the heavens.
  
  Oh, and thank you, Nintendo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfpackfrenzy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Story 9.5/10:
  The story was really great. It was a little short though, essentially the game's story is over 
 around 60 stars.
  
  Gameplay 9.5/10
  -The creative level design is mind bending. Unlike anything I've ever played. When the gravity 
 and orientation changes planet to planet, it really creates this enjoyable vertigo like experience.
 
  -The two player mode was awesome and innovative. Instead of my wife just watching, she could get 
 involved.
  -Two draw backs for me was the game was a little too easy and too short. However, my wife had a 
 lot of difficulty on her own with some of the puzzles and bosses. I really had to help her in two 
 player mode. I think its because my hand to eye coordination is so much better than hers from my 
 years of video gaming. 
  
  Controls 9.5/10
  Swimming controls were sometimes difficult, I felt Mario 64 did a better job. Also the camera angles 
 could get a little funny when gravity and orientation changed.
  
  Sound 10/10
  The music was high quality and magical. You even get a taste of some of the original Mario themes, 
 although I would have liked to have heard a little more of them.
  
  Graphics 9.5/10
  The graphics are great and stick with the traditional cartoonish Mario atmosphere. Even though 
 they're cartoonish, the graphics are very polished and some of the best the Nintendo Wii has to 
 offer.
  
  Fun 10/10
  Totally fun and enjoyable game. Anybody can pick this game up and play. I'd probably say this is 
 the best Mario game ever. However, Super Mario 64 is almost as good.
  
  *************
  Overall 9.5/10
  *************
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheetacuz007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Odds are 99.99% of people have heard of Mario, so you probably know what Mario games are all about. 
 But this game has a twist, you're in space! Platforming is at it's best in this game as much probably 
 expected. Nobody does platforming like Nintendo and Mario and it shows from this game. The only 
 bad thing about this instant classic is that you can't control the camera and sometimes it won't 
 go to where you want it to. Plenty of boss battles and puzzles give the game a balanced feel. Throw 
 in excellent graphics and you've got yourself the best Mario game ever! Yeah, I said it. The difficulty 
 starts off easy and doesn't really ramp up until you get late into the game and have unlocked most 
 of the domes. Domes are the observatories Rosalina uses to see the galaxies and visit them. The 
 bottom line is if you've got a Wii, get this game! Even if you don't have a Wii, buy one and get 
 this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jas2quick
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  The best thing about this game is that all the elements are put together with so much thought; 
 the music, gameplay, fluid controls, and graphics mix together in perfect harmony. The playing 
 experience is just marvelous. There is not a lot of dialog and a fair amount of reading involved, 
 but the music makes it so much better. The camera angles are fluid with the gameplay, and there 
 were only a few instances in which I hoped that I could get a better view. Nonetheless, once you 
 have the Wii controls familiarized, you wouldn't even notice it. I would recommend this game to 
 anybody with a Wii system... and it doesn't matter if you're young or old- you WILL enjoy this 
 game. Even if it wasn't a Mario game, the concept of a galaxy world to explore and jump around 
 to makes a unique, revolutionary experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miisterr
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  this game is like the best mario game ever! since super mario 64!! if your looking for a game 
 that is long lasting fun and highly addictive.. you should get this! it difficulty may vary from 
 galaxy to galaxy but i would say its just right.. allthrough i think that for little kids it would 
 be not that easy.. and.. for the first time ever in a "classic" mario game.. multiplayer!! i have 
 to say its not that good.. but at least this time it has! IMO is better plying alone or with someone 
 watching or something.. but anyway there are plenty of files for everyone in your family to have 
 their personal one.. theres no use to play multiplayer mode! 
  also the controls feel awsome.. theres no flaws and the gravity thing is very cool!
  this is 
 the best wii game to date! best story, best graphycs, best everything! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grafkhun
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  A 3-D platformer game released nowadays is just weird and dated; this long lost genre has seen 
 a huge declination in the video game industry recently. Despite the lack of platformer popularity, 
 Nintendo has made the latest installment in their highly esteemed franchise the pinnacle of 3-D 
 platforming thus far.
  -
  -
  -
  Mario games are usually structured around a similar story line; Princess Peach the ruling monarch 
 of Mushroom Kingdom is kidnapped by Bowser, the nefarious koopa king, time and time again. Motives, 
 backgrounds and settings are practically thrown out the window; the only standard plot devices 
 present are the protagonists, antagonists and conflict. But then again you don't play Mario games 
 for the story, so just know that it's another light-hearted romp through a crazy universe. To avoid 
 spoilers basically Rosalina, a blue dress clad female, is the captain of the Comet Observatory. 
 She offers its services to you and tells you to go collect stars. Bowser has moved to the center 
 of the universe with Peach and the Observatory can go there if it has enough stars to power it 
 up.
  -
  -
  -
  Sure SMG's gameplay is extremely simple, all you do is run, jump and spin your way through some 
 of the zaniest levels ever concocted by anyone and anything, all the while being attacked by ravenous 
 zombies and collecting new armor and weapons wait what? Anyways, SMG is a platformer, but unlike 
 some of the modern platformers out now, you won't be collecting oodles and oodles of random shiny 
 things. Ok I lied; you do just run around grabbing anything that gives off that heavenly sheen 
 and serene sparkle. However collecting is not extremely necessary, all you essentially need to 
 grab are stars and these stars end the current level that you're in, so it doesn't really matter 
 if you grab anything else, but everything helps. Oh and there are no zombies or armor and weapon 
 collecting, sorry folks.
  -
  -
  -
  Controlling Mario (your character) with the wii remote and nunchuk attachment (nunchuk is required) 
 is responsive and precise. If you die you only have yourself to blame, or that thowmp that just 
 smooshed you. Executing any of Mario's special jumps is easy, wall kicking is pie, pulling of spin 
 attacks and butt stomps are not only simple but also fun and in the end controlling Mario is just 
 a joy. It's rare when a game can immerse you so well with only its control scheme. Plus simultaneously 
 it does not overdo the wii's motion controls or ignore them completely; SMG becomes second nature 
 quickly.
  -
  -
  -
  The graphics deliver; this is the first Wii game that will knock your socks off. Technically its 
 not much, jaggy lines and awkward textures pop up here and there, but there are some sweet lighting 
 effects and animations. But SMG is all about art style; its near lunacy as you go from each miniscule 
 planetoid to the next, words cannot describe the wacky locales you visit. To see SMG in action 
 is a simple pleasure in itself. Accompanying the great graphics is a head banging death metal cuss 
 word spewing soundtrack naw I'm just pulling your leg. It's mainly remixed nostalgic tunes but 
 awesome remixes at that, plus the main menu ambient hip-hop drum infused soundtrack is sweetness.
 
  -
  -
  -
  Another thing SMG has that is rare is accessibility. Fossilized cheek grabbing grandmothers, 7-year-old 
 siblings and middle-aged soccer moms can all have a pleasant time with SMG. But accompanying this 
 accessibility is a charm and laid back feel. The game doesn't rush you, it doesn't force you to 
 do certain things and it simply offers you a universe that is bristling and oozing with new things 
 to see and stuff to experience. SMG is also highly polished, new stuff is implemented into the 
 game slowly and oddball side quest levels are explained well. Then there are no hit-collision quirks, 
 no level geometry glitches and the camera is pure genius. The main campaign should take at least 
 10 solid hours, but only 60 of the 120 stars are needed to complete the game. So the other 60 stars 
 offer many more hours of gameplay.
  -
  -
  -
  In the end Super Mario Galaxy is a highly recommendable and enjoyable game for all audiences. If 
 you have a Wii this is not to be missed. To call Super Mario Galaxy anything less than fantastic 
 is an offense that will be dealt with fireball launching and butt stomping castigation.
  -
  -
  -
  Traditional 5 category scoring.
  Gameplay- 9
  Graphics- 9
  Sound- 10
  Value- 
 9
  Tilt- 10
  ~ 9.3
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Veixsinx
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  Where should i start about this game. Well, for one thing, this is the best wii/mario game i have 
 ever played. This game is so good in every area. I highly recomend this game to Nintendo fans like 
 me.
  
  
  The good: Great textures, great graphics, great replay value, the diffacultity and hours took to beat 
 the game is just right, and its great for the whole family. Im sure that you will have this stupid 
 grin on your face half the time yourplaying this game, im serious.
  
  The bad: Hmm lets see what do i have wrong with this game... hmmmmm. well mabey its that the multiplayer 
 sucked! I mean really, how is it multiplayer when theres only one player one the screen. That was 
 just stupid.
  
  Overall this game gets a solid,10/10 have a great rest of the week and look foward to my next review 
 on super smash bros. Peace out gamers-veixsinx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imacritic814
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  Once again, Bowser has kidnapped Peach, and you have to save her. Yes, you. Travel around different 
 galaxies to get to the Princess you must protect and save at all costs. Use different abilities, 
 powers, and awesome new places to go! The best Mario yet!
  
  Travel to different galaxies
  Fight more enemies
  Use new and old abilities like Fire Mario 
 and Boo Mario
  Use the power of the Lumas to help you on your quest
  Finish off Bowser for good and discover his master plan
  
  With the 2-player mode, another 
 player could help you out on your file to find more power stars, stun enemies, and reach great 
 heights! Fun and great for the whole family!
  
  10/10 This game is a masterpiece. I beat the game, but there are more secrets to unlock, which 
 makes this very enjoyable. I just love it and can't wait for the next Mario game to come! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decoy415
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  The title really says it all here. This game brought Mario back to what Mario truly was. Super 
 Mario 64 was fun, and Super Mario Sunshine was ok. What seperates this game is that it can stand 
 amongst the likes of SMB, SMB 3, and Super Mario World. That is truly an amazing feat. These were 
 classic amazing games, that I still play to this day.
  
  Galaxy makes full use of the Wii controller. It uses the joystick on the nunchuck to control Mario, 
 and uses the Wii-mote mostly to control Mario's attacks and jumps. The control scheme is excellent 
 and flows perfectly with the game. The new power ups are a joy to play with as well, especially 
 the Ice Mario. The game designers do a great job of making sure that the player is never stuck, 
 and always can find a way to proceed or be lead in the right direction. The story is exciting and 
 fun from the very beginning, and lastly the galaxy are each unique and fun to play in their own 
 ways. They truly made a complete and polished game with Galaxy.
  
  The thing that grabs me the most is the simple joy of getting a star. I'm used to FPS games or 
 multiplayer competitions, where sometimes you don't always win and have to just enjoy the game 
 for the game's sake. There is something inherently fun about simply finishing a board and getting 
 a star. Something that just puts a smile on my face. This game did that and so much more, and deserves 
 to become an instant classic. One that our children will talk about and play the same way I talked 
 about and played SMB 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eman781
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 20, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  I might be the first reviewer to see the downside to this game, but I am probably the most honest. 
 I have been there through it all, playing games since the mid 80s, and it has always perplexed 
 me how and why mario won out among the earliest game titles to become something of an obsession 
 with weirdos across the country. It seems as though 90% of the WIi's titles involve mario, which 
 both astounds and disgusts me. There is nothing new on the way, and the system which has been out 
 for over a year now has one decent title to show for itself. 
  Sure, Super Mario Galaxy is a fun game, but it has been close to 30 years now with nothing new. 
 He jumps, he falls, he dies. REPEAT. I'm sorry, but these nintendo fan boy queers need to get a 
 damn life already, they are ruining the industry by handing out a score of 10 to anything that 
 reminds them of their childhood. Don't get me wrong, this is a great game, but can you blame me 
 for expecting more when all these reviews are waayy too good? What is the big deal with this game?? 
 It is easy, but at the same time frustrating because the poor camera angles cause Mario to die 
 from things off screen, and he is soo SLOWWW!!! He can't jump high enough, he can't run fast enough, 
 the fatass plumber needs to go on a diet already! I wouldn't mind him being slow, but Bowser is 
 TWICE AS FAST as him. The music is mediocre at best, despite the rave reviews that state otherwise, 
 and it is still mostly synth. 
  All in all, someone just dreamed up mario one day -- it was easy. How pathetic that nothing new 
 has been dreamed up by anyone at nintendo since. I might sell my Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tobkinator
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  it seems like the wii gets one must have game every year. last year [2006] it was twilight princess 
 this year is most definetly Super mario galaxy. lets start with this I have only owned and played 
 three mario games and only beaten one but I assure you this is a good game. as always the princess 
 gets kidnapped by bowser who also steals the castle and blasts you off into space. eventually you 
 go to the observatory led by Rosalina [mario should totally dump peach for her] whi sends you about 
 the universe to collect stars to power the observatory and find peach. thats the beginning and I 
 wont spoil the ending [cause I didnt understand it] . ok to get to gameplay its simple yet by no 
 means half way done. you will be doing a lot of jumping and spinnig to finish each wonderfully done 
 with fun and ocasionally challenging galaxys that can take two minutes to around fifteen minutes. you 
 will ocasionally get to you use different powerups [like the different caps in 64] they all work 
 well except spring mario which is godawful. the music is one of the best features built on 25 years 
 of work it is simply excellent and is what made me think that game music mattered. the graphics 
 are excellent making it one of the best looking wii games yet. there are a total of 120 stars to 
 collect though you only need 60 to win. this is the must have wii game every owner must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GravutyBomber
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This has to have some of the most diverse game play I've ever seen, it's so enjoyable, 
 and hard to stop playing! It will make you mind spend having mario turn upside by jumping onto 
 a dfferent platform, flying through galaxies by little stars, eating psychedelic mushrooms and 
 gaining extra lives and putting you on adrenaline so it's harder for you to die. Basically it's 
 Awesome, and it's hard to get bored in this galaxy.
  
  Graphics: One of the best looking mario games ever seen, of course it would be because it's on 
 the wii, it looks quite like if mario were brought to the ps2.
  
  Controls: It uses most of the Wii's Controls, flicking the controller to spin and etc. but the 
 control layout is nice. the controls will go backwards however at some points when mario goes upside 
 down but other that they are excellent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gearsman92
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  The King of Platforming is back in action. I his 1st true platforming game in over 5 years. There 
 was some douet with Super Mario Sunshine, but now the old Porta belly Italian plumber is back his 
 new intergalactic game Super Mario Galaxy. But, it's been 5 years since Sunshine. Can this old 
 plumber live up to expectation? The story in Super Mario Galaxy is similar to N64 game, with an 
 inventation from Princess Peach. She ask him to come to the Star festivel. Taking advantage of 
 the loss guard, Bowser comes in and sweeps the castle, and Mario is sent into space. When he wakes 
 up, he get's help from a new character name Rosalina, who let's you use her place as the hub. The 
 story is better than sunshines, but still not A+ material. The whole dezien of the game is incredible. 
 Galaxy has gone back to the open endedness of Super Mario 64, were it's all about getting stars. 
 At the start there are tones of galaxies with 3 stars, then you'll take timed challenges and different. 
 Each level is smaller that a regular 3-D Mario. The game has a lot to it. There's an over-wellming 
 amount of fan service. Everything you want from the Plumber from his games, it's there. From power 
 ups, to even coin boxes. The game has a lot collcting. Technicly, you can finish the game with 
 60 stars, but for the dedicated, you can collect all 120 stars. This will take you, ohhh say 35 
 to 40 hours. The gameplay has got to be the best part of the game. The gameplay here is works impeccable. 
 You have all of Mario's moves he's learned, Like the Triple jump, the long jump, Wall jump, the 
 butt-stomp, and more. His lone Wiimote action is to do a spin attack. You can also use the curser 
 to collect star bits, which becomes a game of it's own. In some sections of the game, there are 
 even 2-D parts. Mario also has multiple ability's and power-ups. By now, everyone has seen his 
 bee suit that lets him reach high place. There's also Ice Mario, where Mario can Walk on water 
 and wall jump on water falls. There's also the classic Fire Mario, which was only seen in the 2-D 
 Mario games. Also, a new version of the Wing cap. The game also has others power-ups, but those 
 are better left unspoiled. The new thing with Super Mario Galaxy is gravity pull. This means you 
 can jump in the air to see where the gravity pulls Mario to, and it's just a blast to see it. The 
 levels are smaller this time around, but are much longer and the gravity pull helps you forget 
 about the repeative water worlds of SunShine. The game also has featurs a wide veriety of events. 
 Your never going to be board with the game. So we have lots of veriety, Mario's spot of jumping 
 controls, and Gravity. The game is full of fun. Excluding this, Under Water swimming still isn't 
 fun. But, that's the only thing. The Wii's graphics haven't been next gen. But now, it is. While 
 Sonic and the Secret Rings graphics were the blue prints, Super Mario Galaxy are the true graphics. 
 The Wii has now gone from "it's good enough" to the world of "This looks amazing." Everything looks 
 amazing, From the fur shadings of the creatures, to the amazing looks. It's just impossible for 
 someone say there bad. The music is another great spot as it has some of the best tunes in any 
 video game. Super Mario Galaxy is possibly the best 3-D Mario game ever. While it's not as revolutionary 
 a Super Mario 64, but, this is Nintendo's close they'll get to recreated the feeling seeing him 
 in 3-D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wima5ter-134
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Is this the worthy successor to Super Mario 64? Yes. This game is amazing. It almost definitely 
 places itself in the category of "greatest games ever" There is nothing mediocre about it whatsoever.
 
  
  It starts out with Mario going to see Peach during the centennial passing of a comet. While going 
 to the castle, Bowser comes with a fleet of Pirate ships and literally rips the castle out of the 
 ground and pulls it into space. Mario gets knocked off the castle and falls into the orbit of a 
 small "planet" as they call them (though they are more like odd fixtures of items floating around 
 in space) and so begins his mission.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics are incredibly good. Seeing as its all art design, you can definitely tell that they 
 put A LOT of time into this. The water on the LoopdeLoop galaxy or Beach Bowl Galaxy reflect the 
 light of the sun and moves like it actually has a tide and wind. It looks really good
  score: 10/10
  
  GAME PLAY:
  just like Super Mario 64, Amazing. It is incredibly intuitive 
 with the gravity affect. Some levels with a strong gravity if you jump of the edge of something 
 then the gravity will suck you around the edge and up to the top. This also comes with some problems 
 though. Its occasionally confusing when your upside down because what you think is going forward 
 will send you backwards, but it seldom happens. The controls make the game play even more enjoyable. 
 The easy and intuitive controls make the game even more enjoyable and add to the fun.
  score: 10/10
  
  MUSIC:
  the music is a joy to listen to. On the comet (where you choose your 
 missions) I often find myself humming along to the music and even singing what I think would be 
 good lyrics to the song. With each level having its own specific music, it rarely gets old.
  music: 10/10
  
  LEVEL DESIGN: 
  The levels are completely brand new and have never been thought 
 out in any other game to date. Levels such as the freezyflame and toytime galaxies are incredibly 
 original that range from freezing cold water to mama and climbing giant Bowser toy robots. They 
 are incredibly fun but some levels seem like the producers got a bit lazy. The Gold Leaf galaxy 
 is the Honeyhive galaxy mirrored and the ground is gold. A bit unoriginal if you ask me.
  Level design: 9/10
  
  REPLAY VALUE:
  The replay value is very important in this game. It 
 only takes 60 stars to beat the story part of the game, but there are still 60 more to be collected 
 and apparently (I haven't gotten all stars left) you can play through again as Luigi. The comets 
 are also a good way to get you to go back to the level. Among them are the daredevil comet, where 
 you fight a boss with only one health, the Speedy comets, where you beat a certain level within 
 a time limit,
  and Purple Comets, which have you collect 100 purple coins within the level. You can also unlock 
 a story that explains how Roselina came to live on the comet, but if you don't want to read that 
 you can skip it completely.
  replay value: 10/10
  
  CAMERA:
  The self-moving camera is a nice burden taken of your shoulders and rarely gets in the way. There 
 are a few bad areas, such as in the Honeyhive galaxy when you climb a ledge, you can only see Mario's 
 silhouette behind a giant tree, times like that are so scarce, it hardly matters.
  camera 10/10
  
  Just looking at the scores for each individual topic, you can obviously tell 
 that this game is incredible. As a worthy successor to Mario 64, any Wii owner should get this 
 game no matter what. 
  actual score: 9.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popky07
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Where do I begin with a game like Super Mario Galaxy? Quite simply it is one of the most addictive 
 and charming games that I've played in a long time, although there are some issues that I have 
 with the game that mean it doesn't quite live up to my highest standards and might not be for everyone, 
 although everyone should certainly give it a go.
  The gameplay is revolutionary even though its built on an old formula, they've expanded the possibilities 
 of the Mario games and created a crazy, wacky, zany environment with gravity effects that will 
 leave your head spinning. Not to mention the plethora of special and interesting outfits you can 
 collect that give Mario certain powers, though sometimes these sections can be a tad frustrating.
 
  The graphics are sharp, engaging and colourful with plenty to look at and a great use of environments 
 to create a cartoonistic work of gaming art. The characters are as equally sharp and interesting 
 and the environments, and seeing some of my favourite Mario 64 enemies appear in a far superior 
 graphical style was a nice touch.
  The storyline isn't entirely coherent, and for impatient gamers like me the way the storyline is 
 delivered is quite boring and leave my mind wandering as I ignore the masses of writing that you 
 have to read to get any idea of the story. Though the basic idea is simple, easy to understand, 
 and lays enough groundwork for anyone to enjoy the game regardless.
  I have one issue with the entire game. For instance, the sometimes repetetiveness of levels and 
 the extreme amount of stars overall can be a bit daunting to an impatient player and I find myself 
 playing about 3 or 4 hours a day in 1 hour sessions with breaks in beteen. There's a lot of variety, 
 but perhaps there's too much of the same thing in a row that it sometimes seems to go on forever.
 
  Still, lots of fun and sometimes challenging. Certainly the kind of game I could recommend to 
 both amateur and veteran gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomdood123
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  I have waited to play this game since the wii launched! I sort of tracked its release and went 
 through phases of how excited i was about the game. id read one thing and get all anxious and read 
 another thing and think: "well thats gonna make it the **** game ever!" but i just thought over 
 and over in my head "please dont be another mario sunshine!!!"
  
  much to my delight, it isnt at all! its actually much like my favorite game in the super mario 
 series: Super Mario 64. basically its like they took SM64 and added a spin move to mario, upped 
 the graphics, added new elements of gravity and flying, and put it in a new setting. now, that 
 kind of sounds extremely different, but the actual point of the game is exactly the same. You go 
 from stage to stage (paintings in 64, galaxies in galxy, due to the setting change) collecting 
 stars. Thats basically it. but to really, truely, give this game the review it deserves, this is 
 gonna take some time. I will be using a fair ammount of comparisons to get my point accross clearly.
 
  
  First up, the controlls. The wii has a ground-breaking controll system that is completely different 
 than anything else. This can be an obvious obstacle to platformers such as the mario series. If 
 you use it too much, the game is lost in the controlls and it gets too complex. Use it too little, 
 and you aren't using the great features the wii has to offer. (which is something i had a problem 
 with from super paper mario) Galaxy uses just the right ammount. basically you have a cursor on 
 the screen that lets you grab onto some "orb" things that will take you to it. It also lets you 
 pick up these things called "Star Bits." the last thing it does is lets you do a spin move. the 
 spin move is extremely useful when fighting the regular enemies on the ground. To move, you use 
 the control stick on the nun-chuck. A is jump. B shoots your star bits (which either confuses enemies 
 or supplies the star people with a nice snack) . Z ducks, along with the Z combos: Z, then A does 
 back-flip, and when your moving and do that, you jump really far. They are very standard controlls 
 to the mario series, making it feel really similar to Mario 64.
  Next, gravity. With this game, gravity is more of a toy. everything has gravity and lets you walk 
 all over things and jump to an object above you, then being stuck to it by gravity. some rooms 
 also let you change the gravity. Other gravity-playing includes walking inside planets and stuff. 
 Another kind of "toy" in the game is a type of launcher. You will come accross star outlines floating 
 in the air. if you go next to them and do a spin move, it launches you to a specific place.
  The camera angles are usually pretty good. When your looking for things like hidden items or easter 
 eggs, which i often do, the camera can be horrible to work with, since you have only one view, 
 and you can't move it. Otherwise it moves by itself to a perfect to play the game to get most of 
 the stuff your looking for, and i ran into no glitches with it.
  Now, there were 2 weak points with the game. I have to compare it to super paper mario again for 
 this. I really didnt like the plot. Now i realize that its a platformer, and MARIO at that, but 
 all of the paper marios (and super mario rpg) had great story-development. I liked those because 
 of the plot development, and i wasn't JUST getting star after star in world after world until i 
 beat it; i actually wanted to see what happened at the end. The other one was your health. you 
 have 3 hits. you can have 6 with a special mushroom, but after you loose the extra 3 you get from 
 it, you dont get them back. Im more undecided about this point, because that is just pitiful for 
 an inter-galactic hero, but it definately adds an element of skill needed in game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2upmoon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  I had a lot of pros and cons about this game. Mario is my favorite video game series ever and I 
 am sure always will be. The game play was so responsive and incredible. Before I bought it, I figured 
 it would be a little slower paced because of the whole wii remote and just by some of the videos 
 I watched. I was surprised. The colors were very vibrant and the cinematics were amazing. (thank 
 you Nintendo for not making bowser talk in this one) . But now I am brought down to what I was disappointed 
 about. The worlds were not big, the level was pretty much designed to take you to the star instead 
 of actually having to work your way to it. There was no room for exploring as most of the levels 
 were just like tracks leading you to the star. And sure the colors were vibrant and very aesthetically 
 pleasing but I wish the game had a little more detailed graphics that the wii is entirely capable 
 of. Mario should look like the Mario in the upcoming Super Smash Brothers Brawl where you can see 
 the creases in his overalls and the fuzziness in his mustache. I wish the fire flower wasn't a 
 very limited temporary power up... it was never like that ever in any game. And Spring Mario was 
 completely absurd. Also, you spent half of the game flying around because of those launch stars... I 
 want more game play and more room to run around and explore. They should have not put in the purple 
 coin collection comets either. You should just have to collect the regular 100 coins like it has 
 ALWAYS been. But you know... despite all those things... since they put Luigi in the game, that makes 
 up for everything.
  
  All in all, the game was better than Mario Sunshine so it is a must buy in my book. Although I 
 do not agree with gamespots rating for this game I still give it a high rating. I think gamespot 
 just got a little excited that a Mario game came out since they don't come out often and gave this 
 one a quick score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: myxomatosis420
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2008 11:04 pm PT
Review:  i have a ps3. and i think wii's are gay. but this is simply the funnest currently released game 
 for any next gen system. i have a ps3. and i think wii's are gay. but this is simply the funnest 
 currently released game for any next gen system. i have a ps3. and i think wii's are gay. but this 
 is simply the funnest currently released game for any next gen system. i have a ps3. and i think 
 wii's are gay. but this is simply the funnest currently released game for any next gen system. i 
 have a ps3. and i think wii's are gay. but this is simply the funnest currently released game for 
 any next gen system. i have a ps3. and i think wii's are gay. but this is simply the funnest currently 
 released game for any next gen system. i have a ps3. and i think wii's are gay. but this is simply 
 the funnest currently released game for any next gen system. i have a ps3. and i think wii's are 
 gay. but this is simply the funnest currently released game for any next gen system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrngod
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is one of the purely funnest games of 2007. From the moment it starts up till 
 the moment it is turned off it is a guarantee that you will have a ton of fun.
  
  To just get it out of the way right now, the story is basically non-existent. This is typical Mario 
 story telling at it's most pure and simplistic. Peach got snagged by Bowser and now he wants to 
 rule everything. Mario must save her. There are some other story elements added involving another 
 blonde damsel, but for the most part these elements can basically be ignored.
  
  The gameplay is an amazing mix of elements from all past Mario games, with additional original 
 ideas added in as well. There are 3D "flat" levels, just like in Mario64. There are side scrolling 
 2D levels, just like in the NES/SNES Mario games. And, there are plenty of 3D upside-down "planet" 
 levels as commonly seen in trailers for this game. All of these types of gameplay are present, 
 and they are all done extremely well on a ridiculously huge variety of levels.
  
  The power ups available are also all done in a very clever way. Power mushrooms make a return, 
 but in a pretty cool way. Normally you get 3 hitpoints that are displayed in a circle on the upper 
 right corner of the screen. Collecting coins refills one hit point up to a max of three. However, 
 the power mushrooms push you up to a total of 6 hitpoints. Once you go back down to 3 hitpoints 
 you loose the bonus and your max available returns to 3. It really makes finding those Power Mushrooms 
 before a boss encounter quite helpful.
  
  Most of the other power ups are on timers, such as invincibility, flower-power (throwing fireballs) , 
 ice-Mario (walking on water by freezing it) . However there are plenty that stick around until you 
 cause them to go away. The Bumble-Bee and Spring suits stick around until you loose a hitpoint 
 or touch the water. The power ups are all very creative and add quite a bit of variety just by 
 themselves. The only one that becomes even slightly frustrating would be the Spring suit simply 
 because it can be a bit annoying to control.
  
  The game progresses through the collecting of a total of 120 stars. As you collect more, you get 
 the ability to unlock more levels, which in turn provides more opportunity to collect more stars. 
 The odd decision to require only 60 stars to "complete" the final boss encounter involving the 
 story line was a bit of a surprise as it leave you with the feeling that you have only played through 
 half the game. Having set this number up to 80 or 90 would have seemed to make more sense. Fortunately 
 you are not forced into the last encounter at 60 stars and can go around finishing as many levels 
 as you want up to 104 stars before starting up the last encounter. Strangely, the last 15 stars 
 do not become available until after Bowser is down.
  
  There are several rooms that you can enter, which each have a System in them containing a handful 
 of Galaxies. Each Galaxy that you unlock has multiple star challenges available. When you select 
 the Galaxy you pick which star you want to attempt to collect, and the level path is then specific 
 to that challenge. The advantage here is that one Galaxy can have up to 7 stars on it, but each 
 star challenge will have you playing that Galaxy in totally different ways. The end result is a 
 lot of variety between star challenges that are all on the same Galaxy.
  
  Each Galaxy also has plenty of secret star challenges. Using the term "secret" here very lightly, 
 because the game will basically tell you that there is a secret star on a specific level. There 
 are also extra challenges that show in the way of comets. These are probably some of the more difficult 
 ones throughout the game. They often entail racing against a shadowy version of Mario, or completing 
 a boss encounter with only 1 life point.
  
  Eventually you will get to the last Galaxy within each room. This is usually where a major boss 
 encounter happens that adds a little bit to the story. These encounters are quite fun, but seem 
 to be all very similar. Even the mini-bosses that are scattered around various Galaxies tend to 
 be a bit too similar with each other. This is not a very big deal since as the game progresses 
 there are more layers of difficulty added on to each boss encounter, but it is a little bit of 
 a downer. Overall the boss encounters really are a blast to play and become quite memorable. They 
 are challenging, but not  challenging. Which is good because you 
 might hurt your wiimote had they been that hard.
  
  All of this does not mean the game doesn't have problems. There are a few issues that are present 
 which range from slightly odd to downright WTF?. The minor odd issues are forgivable, and might 
 not ever be noticed by most players, but the WTF? issues are glaring.
  
  The worst parts of Mario Galaxy are easily going to be a handful of the Star Challenges that appear 
 to be completely and painfully out of place. Most of the gameplay is fairly easy, yet still enjoyable. 
 However there are a few challenges that are beyond frustrating. There are 2 particular challenges 
 that require you to throw bombs at piles of trash to blow up all the trash within 30 seconds or 
 so. These are a total waste of time and just flat out do not belong in this game. They are not 
 fun at all. Period. Zero entertainment value. Even picking up the star once you complete them feels 
 cheap. After you complete the final Bowser level you unlock "purple comet" challenges. Most of 
 these range from easy to challenging while remaining fun. Some of them are absolutely the single 
 most difficult parts of the game, bordering on impossible. For someone such as myself that is crazy 
 Obsessive Compulsive, this is just not acceptable. I can't help but shake my head in wonder as 
 to why these few insanely difficult challenges made it into the game. The main reason for there 
 difficulty is strictly due to the control style. For every other level in the game the controls 
 work perfectly fine. But these few frustrating levels require a level of precision that is just 
 not tuned in with the controls. Having the game suddenly become an exercise in control frustration 
 was definitely a major let down. I collected 116 stars before giving up and was left with slightly 
 bitter taste in my mouth for an otherwise incredible experience.
  
  Overall Mario is really the first game anyone should consider when they purchase a Wii. It is easily 
 the best game on the platform, and also one of the best games to come out for the entire year across 
 all available platforms. The astounding amount of fun and enjoyment available are well worth the 
 price, and easily makes up for the bore-fest that was Super Mario Sunshine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarcusFenix2009
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2008 6:38 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is not only fun but it has the gameplay and graphics to match.
  
  Each level of the game and there's a lot of them, provides great fun for gamers at any age. If 
 you enjoy a gory shoot'em up this may not be the game for you but it is fun nether the less. I 
 am a gory shoot'em myself and I still liked it immensely.
  
  There are a surprisingly huge amount of levels each with it's own new enemy or move to go with 
 it. Mario is gravitated to the planets making it a good easy game too, with the odd puzzle to test 
 you. Obviously it being on the Wii adds something extra to every game. This time it adds the ability 
 to attack, collect stars, shoot enemies and gravitate to new places with the Wiimote.
  
  For the Wii the graphics are amazing. Not to 360 standard but good for the Wii.
  
  Best game 
 on Wii so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barneycalhoun
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 9:38 pm PT
Review:  One word can describe this game : outstanding. It is a worthy successor to 64 and should be bought 
 by all wii owners. The gravity is just fun and some of the levels are just random, although the 
 camera does sometimes get annoying and there is a lack of speech these can easily be overlooked. 
 There is only one problem which is the ray surfing especially loopdeswoop galaxy which just gets 
 annoying. rellay annoying. The levels are diverse from the melty molten galaxy of fire to the bubble 
 blast galaxy where you must navigate a swamp in a bubble . The new suits are amazing, Boo mario 
 is great to play as a boo and even freeze water and lava as ice mario. Bee mario is fun as there 
 is a galaxy that relies soley on his honeycomb climbing ability the honeyclimb galaxy. Overall it 
 is one great game although you may through you wii remaote at the screen in fustration (ray surfing) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMarioPaper
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  So the famed trio finally takes it to space and Mario is rescuing Peach again. ( who doesn't know 
 that) What really suprised me was the fact that the game relived many of the classics. For instance 
 You have to collect 120 Power Stars. Does that ring a bell to you? That's from Super Mario 64! 
 It also had many great remixes of some classic game songs. My favorite is Super Mario Bros.3 but 
 I haven't reached the good part yet. You can actually play as Fire Mario! Yes, Fire Mario, that 
 old throwing fire balls thing which really suprised me. Shake the Wii remote to throw fire balls 
 at enemies and burn them to a crisp. I heard fried goomba is a delacay. The power ups in Super Mario 
 Galaxy are: Fire Mario Throw fire at enemies, Ice Mario: walk and skate on water. you can also wall 
 jump on water, Bee Mario: become a bee and hover jump, Boo Mario: become a boo and fly and go through 
 walls, Springo Mario: Become trapped and squeezed in a spring and bounce everywhere you move. Press 
 A at the right time and you will do a super high jump! Flying Mario: shake the Wii remote while 
 jumping to become air born and control Mario like a plane. And the best power up of all: Rainbow 
 Mario: Your invincible and that familiar music starts to play! the objective of the game is to 
 collect 120 Power Stars and rescue Princess Toadstool A. K. A Peach. After that, don't turn off the 
 game yet, theres a little suprise for you. At the end of the credits it says you can play as Luigi! 
 there's basically no difference except he runs faster, jumps higher and stops slower. In my opinion, 
 this is the greatest Mario game in Mario history. If you own a Wii , buy this game. Well that concludes 
 my review and till next time gamer fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catboxcandy
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazingly siick-nasty on so many levels. So, let's start it out with the graphics, 
 they're the best on the wii, and pretty good otherwise still; everything has a miraculous shine, 
 that i can't get over. But look's aren't everything. The gameplay is the best in a Mario game yet, 
 with all his old moves, long jump, side jump, backflip... and the levels give you a perfect, big-kid 
 playground to do it all in, with a mix of old-school design, with fresh, new, fun ideas. The epic 
 movie, orchestra music is quite nice to listen to, as well. You can also transform, by collecting 
 certain mushrooms, making you fly, jump real high, shoot fire, or freeze everything. All the old 
 character's you'd want are in there, and all the 120 stars will keep you playing for hours. Unfortunately, 
 though, there is a little downside, the camera is sometimes a nuisance, and Bowser Jr. is in this 
 game, but otherwise this game is a masterpiece, being better than even Mario 64. GET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spacepirate58
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Man. My classification says it all. Amazing. The game game is pushed to the max, and it truly shows. 
 Whether you are playing with talking bees or smacking the level itself for a star, you will love 
 this. 
  
  Well, the story has a more common story, the giant fire-breather Bowser stole Princess Peach, but 
 oh! Wait! This time Bowser went new! He uprooted the entire castle! (no idea why, though, but I'm 
 guessing to hold his galaxy inside) And Mario, as usual, goes after her. Go figure, the Toads can't. 
 But anyway, you are sent on an amazing mission to recover stars all over the universe (Super Mario 
 64, anyone?) ! The great thing about it, though, is that each and every place is unique, and has 
 it's own personal traits that make each and every one a great experience. They even tried to fit 
 in every single character, enemy, everything, but some they did miss. 
  
  In the game there are 120 stars, and some are definitely easier to collect. If you do have this 
 game, though, or plan to get it, know that if a comet called the "purple comet" is around a galaxy 
 called the "Toy Time Galaxy" know that you are about to face the world's toughest collecting mission. 
 
  
  When you collect 60 stars, you are finally at the last boss. But don't believe it is the end. Good 
 gravy no. There are still 60 more stars to collect, and the prankster comets, that give special 
 stars, but at a much harder challenge, such as racing a "Shadow Mario" to a star. And when you 
 think there could not be any more galaxy's, there are more! When you receive certain stars, you 
 will unlock a secret area, with three new planets, and hungry stars (the entire race are called 
 Lumas) that you must feed star bits to it to create new galaxies. Star bits are the common source 
 of money in the game, and are more common than coins in here. 
  
  The game is great overall, and just knowing that the game will almost never end, it makes it feel 
 great to know that you can always come to it to have fun. Unfortunately, the Nintendo company is 
 still getting a little easier, but it is still fun to play and comes with the challenges to even 
 it out with the easy stars, and every game has these things, so it rightly wears this 10 as a badge 
 of honor. Excellent job, Nintendo! Kudos! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hungry_Homer111
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Mario is a character that is known by pretty much everybody who has ever even heard the term "videogames." 
 He's been around since the beginning he appeared in Donkey Kong in 1981. Since then, he's appeared 
 in many different kinds of games, including puzzler games, racing games, sports games, party games, 
 RPGs. But he's most known for his platformers, which have almost always been considered the best 
 of the genre by many gamers. It's a testament to how great his platformers are when his last platformer 
 Super Mario Sunshine, which is a great platforming game, is considered by many to be a disappointment 
 because it failed to live up to the amazing standard set by some of the earlier games in the series. 
 In fact, due to the fact that Sunshine failed to live up to many people's expectations, a few people 
 even began questioning whether or not Nintendo would be able to get back to the level of greatness 
 that the previous games had, and with Super Mario Galaxy, they finally have their answer.
  
  In this new game, Mario once again has to rescue Princess Peach from Bowser, who has lifted 
 Peach's castle from the ground and brought it to a distant galaxy. Anybody who has played a Mario 
 game before will be all too familiar with the story, since it's the same one that's been used in 
 so many Mario games before, and the only twist to it is very similar to the one that was used in 
 the original Paper Mario game. There is an optional story that people can read that explains a 
 bit more about new characters which are introduced within the game, which is set up in a kind of 
 story book structure. It's a pretty interesting idea that adds to the fantasy of the setting even 
 more, and is a pretty good story for people who like that kind of story, but anybody who doesn't 
 care about it can just continue playing. This is a good way to have the story, because it keeps 
 the focus on the gameplay, which is what a Mario game is all about.
  
  The game itself is set up in a similar structure to the last two games. The game has a central 
 hub area where you can run around and access the main levels. This hub area is a lot smaller than 
 the previous games, which can be disappointing to anybody who loved to explore the castle in Mario 
 64 and Mario Sunshine, but it does serve its purpose, which is just to get you into the levels. 
 Each level has a different number of stars to get by completing different objectives.
  
  However, despite the similar structure to the previous games, Mario Galaxy is actually a very different 
 kind of game. Mario 64 and Sunshine were focused on exploring the levels. In order to get the stars, 
 a lot of times you had to explore the levels, and complete different objectives within those areas. 
 This game, however, is much more similar to the 2D Mario game, where the objective was to get from 
 the beginning of the level to the end. It's a lot more obvious what you have to do in order to 
 get the star, so there is much less focus on figuring out what to do, and more focus on the obstacles 
 between you and the star.
  
  The game does take different elements from previous games. For example, there are some free-roaming 
 areas, similar to those of Mario 64. There are also 2D platforming areas, which are not quite up 
 to the platforming of Super Mario Bros. 3 and Super Mario World, but are still very interesting, 
 and don't really feel like it's out of place or just a fan service to the fans of the 2D games. 
 There are also areas that kind of mix the two kinds of games, where it is a 3D area, but has simple, 
 but challenging platforming. And there are also some areas that try to do something new. For example, 
 there are these things called Pull Stars, and if the player points at the Pull Star and presses 
 the A button, Mario is pulled towards it. These Pull Stars are sometimes in a small part of different 
 missions, but then there are also certain missions that are centered around that idea, and really 
 help to flesh it out in order to help make the game feel more unique.
  
  Mario games often have different ideas which are expanded on throughout the game. For example, 
 in Super Mario Bros. 3, it was all the different kinds of items, as well as the more complex platforming 
 that couldn't be done in the previous games. In Mario 64, it was a complete redesign of the series' 
 structure to fit the move from 2D to 3D. And in Sunshine, it was FLUDD. One of the main ideas which 
 is focused on within Mario Galaxy is the use of gravity. Gravity isn't used in a way where one 
 world has heavier gravity that most worlds, and another has lighter gravity. Instead, gravity is 
 used in a way to try to make you constantly re-think how to do things. There are some small planets 
 where you can go all the way around the world, on its side, and on the bottom. This is probably 
 the most used example within the game, and it takes a little while to get used to the way this 
 works, but not so long that it ends up hurting the game. This is also used as a way to have certain 
 puzzles, hidden secrets, and other things which really take advantage of this idea. There are many 
 other examples of twisting gravity within the game. For example, some platforming sections have 
 where the gravity switches from one area to the next, so that you can switch from walking on the 
 floor to walking on the ceiling or the walls. This idea hardly ever got old throughout the entire 
 game, and really helped to make the game feel fresh.
  
  This game also has a lot more boss battles than the previous Mario games had. The bosses in the 
 last two games have been really easy, and this doesn't really change in this game, unfortunately. 
 However, what the bosses lack in difficulty, they make up for in complexity. Many of the bosses 
 are the usual kinds of platformer bosses, which have a weak spot that you have to hit a certain 
 amount of times. However, hitting the weak spot on the enemies is often a lot more complex, and 
 fun, than the bosses in 64 and Sunshine were. For example, one of the earlier bosses is a giant 
 octopus creature, which spits hot rocks and melons at you. In order to beat the boss, you have 
 to use your spin attack in order to toss the melon back at the creature, and it results in a strange 
 kind of tennis match between Mario and the creature until it's defeated.
  
  The game also makes use out of the Wii remote in interesting ways. The most used out of the motion 
 controls is the pointer, and specifically the fact that it can collect these things called star 
 bits, which are spread throughout the levels, and can be shot at enemies. While this may seem like 
 it would get a bit tedious collecting the star bits throughout the levels the entire game, it actually 
 becomes almost intuitive, and adds another dimension to the game, where you look for the star bits 
 to collect, while focusing on trying to get past the enemies and obstacles. Another way the remote 
 is used is by shaking it in order to launch different star pads, which launch you either to another 
 planet or to a different part of the same planet.
  
  There are also, many more interesting uses to the remote, which are only used within certain parts. 
 Sometimes it's used in order to draw the player into the game at certain times, and others are 
 used in a mini-game-like way, which might not be good to have too much of, but in the limited amount 
 that they do have these controls in (usually just 2 or 3 missions) it gives a unique and pretty 
 fun way to change things up. Overall, the motion controls aren't used too much, but they are used 
 in effective ways. And the normal controls should be pretty familiar to people who have played 
 the previous games, but now the controls are much better than the previous games. Wall jumping, 
 diving, doing back flips, doing a spin move, and pretty much everything is a lot better than Mario 
 64 and Mario Sunshine.
  
  One interesting note for any fan of the older Mario games is that this game's items are much more 
 along the lines of the items in the 2D games, specifically Super Mario Bros. 3, in terms of their 
 inventiveness. In the 3D games, the items were different kinds of caps in 64, and different attachments 
 to FLUDD, which weren't as inventive as a frog suit, or a raccoon suit, for example. However the 
 items in this game are much more interesting than those. Although, in this game, they are used 
 in a different way than they were in previous games. Some suits are only used for a limited amount 
 of time, and then disappear. These are used within certain sections of levels, in order to get 
 a specific task done and move on in the level. Then there are other suits which don't have a limit 
 in how long you can use them. These often have specific levels designed around them, which take 
 advantage of their specific uses. This is definitely a great idea, because the items often do reach 
 their full potential. However, unfortunately, since the items have specific uses within the levels, 
 that also means that those items won't be seen much, if at all, outside of the levels that make 
 specific use out of them. Also, the one item which could have been the best, and the most fun flying 
 item from any Mario game, is completely underused, and is the biggest wasted opportunity in the 
 entire game. Also, one of the items, which turns Mario into a spring, is a very annoying item to 
 control, and is one of the few things that I actually hated in the game.
  
  An interesting twist in the game are something called Prankster Comets. These take some of the 
 stars that you've gotten in different levels, and add some kind of twist to them. Sometimes there 
 are time limits to them, and you have to get it done in that time. Other times, you only have one 
 health bar, so if you get hit even once, you have to start the level again. My favorite kind of 
 comet is one that has purple coins appear, and you have to collect 100. After Sunshine, I got really 
 annoyed at the thought of any kind of coin collecting in any more Mario games, but these actually 
 weren't that bad. Some of them were pretty much longer, more drawn out versions of the red coins 
 from the previous games. These were sometimes pretty fun, but other times seemed more boring than 
 anything. But then there were other purple coins missions which have more of a challenge to it, 
 due to a time limit, and being more platforming-based than the ones that weren't timed. These were 
 often my favorite stars within the game, mainly due to their challenge.
  
  One of the main complaints I have about the main game is the difficulty. You only have to get 60 
 stars in order to beat the game, and many of these stars will be very easy to complete. However, 
 if you go beyond the required amount, and get all 120 stars, then there will be a decent amount 
 of challenge. This is probably due to the fact that the series has been around so long, and Nintendo 
 is struggling to get the right amount of challenge in order to appeal to a new generation of customers, 
 while keeping things challenging enough for the older fans of the series, who have been gaming 
 all their lives, have improved a lot in those years, and still want the same amount of enjoyment 
 out of the series as they have had since they were young. Considering this struggle to find a way 
 to satisfy both the younger generation and the older generation, I believe that they've done a 
 good job with the amount of challenge in the game, especially when compared to Super Paper Mario, 
 but it still is bound to make a few of the older gamers disappointed.
  
  One thing that is improved on over the previous games are the camera angles, and the controls to 
 fix them. The camera angles in the previous 2 games were one of the worst aspects of those games, 
 and often resulted in me dying. However, there was hardly any time that the camera angles in Galaxy 
 were anything less than perfect. There were a few awkward camera angles, and a few bad positions, 
 but none that were even close to the level of annoyance of the other games' cameras, and none of 
 them ended up in me getting killed.
  
  Outside of the gameplay, the best aspect of the game is the music. I have always loved Nintendo's 
 music, and especially loved the music in the Mario games. This game shows that they can not only 
 still come up with some great music, but also far exceed their previous work. As usual, they do 
 have some remixes of older songs in the game. This includes the usual songs from the original Super 
 Mario Bros. game, as well as some music from other games. These are mostly versions which remain 
 very true to the originals, only making it sound better, although there are a few songs that are 
 redone in order to fit the themes of the levels. Although these are all great, it's the original 
 music that makes the game's music stand out above the others. The songs in the game are fully orchestrated. 
 This allowed them to do a lot more with the songs than they could otherwise do, and it shows. The 
 range in the music is absolutely amazing. There are some light-hearted songs, some epic songs, 
 and some subtle songs. Most of the songs in the game are absolutely brilliant songs which could 
 stand by themselves, but end up being even more great when playing throughout the levels. There 
 are some songs that aren't as great, and if I were listening to them outside of the game, I wouldn't 
 care for them, but even these work very well within the levels that they were created for. In addition 
 to the great songs, there are some really nice effects in the game. In a few levels, there is a 
 ball that Mario stands on, which he has to guide to the end of the level, and depending on how 
 fast or slow you're going, the song slows down or speeds up. In some water levels, when you go 
 under water, the song gets distorted to sound as if you're actually listening to that song under 
 water, and it still sounds nice. Also, in some of the levels, there are some music notes which 
 play one note of a classic Mario song at a time, until you've gotten all of them, and get some 
 kind of reward.
  
  The sound effects in this game are also very good. Specifically, the speaker within the Wii remote 
 is put to very good use. While some games suffer from trying to put too complex of a sound, rely 
 too much on it (like Twilight Princess did) , have poor quality, or whatever the case is, this game 
 has just the right amount of use for this feature, and it's not nearly as poorly done as some games 
 that use this feature, mainly due to the simplicity of the sounds that come from the speaker. The 
 in-game sounds are also very well done.
  
  The graphics in the game show that, while the Wii can't make graphics quite as good as the 360 
 and PS3, it can still produce some very impressive graphics. The game uses a mixture of art style 
 and technical graphics in order to create the most colorful, and visually stunning graphics on 
 a Wii game yet.
  
  The replay value is not really that great, unfortunately. After getting 100%, there is a bit more 
 replay value due to the reward of getting all the stars, but that only lasts a little while longer. 
 After that, there are a few missions that have time limits, which records your best times, and 
 some people can replay those trying to get the best times. Then there are other kinds of challenges 
 that some people could decide to do if they wanted to go back and try to do it. But this is more 
 of a game that people will beat, and just come back to it every once in a while just to play it 
 again because it was fun.
  
  This game shows just how creative Nintendo can be. The game has lots of interesting ideas, which 
 are used in such a way that fully explores the ideas, but never causes them to get old. The music, 
 controls, camera, and graphics are all very well done, and adds to the overall fun factor of the 
 game. Unfortunately, there are some problems in the game, and the game isn't quite as good as Super 
 Mario Bros. 3, Super Mario World, and Mario 64 (although it's very close) , but it's still an amazing 
 game, and can already be considered among the many great classics within the Mario platforming 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexyfatman24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  This game defines the word revolution. It is completely different than any other game in the series 
 but still has the charm that Mario has. Some of the levels are so intensely fun that it will make 
 you go back and play them over and over again. I have a very high respect for this game but their 
 are still a few things that could have been improved.
  
  At the beginning of the game you gain an ability that allows you to do a second jump in mid air. 
 Although it is a nice feature to have, it made the game a little bit too easy. It is very similar 
 to F. L. U. D. D. 's hover nozzle from Super Mario Sunshine but that is no comparison. My point is 
 that F. L. U. D. D.'s nozzle was necessary in order to beat the game. To get to point B from point 
 A Mario had to jump and then use the hover nozzle. While in Mario Galaxy the second jump was not 
 needed to get anywhere. Their is always an alternate route that does not require the double jump.
 
  
  Another strong element that I felt was missing was the lack of adventure on the level choice planet. 
 In Mario 64 their were hidden clues in the castle that you had to search around to find. Same in 
 Super Mario Sunshine. Although it is located in a city, the city has secrets to it that you must 
 complete in order to get all of the shine sprites. Mario Galaxy lacked this. Although their were 
 hidden plants from the hungry luma, it still lacked the mystery of trying to find every single 
 star. All the stars are mapped out for you, with one exception. On one of the planets that are 
 single event and one star opportunities their is a hidden green star. But that is only on one planet. 
 
  
  As the 3D Mario plat-former series goes along it starts lacking its sense of adventure. In Mario 
 64 you would wander around the castle looking for new paintings to jump into. The fact of finding 
 one made me happy. Sunshine was very similar except it was easier to find the levels. But in galaxy 
 this was all lost. All the levels were mapped out for you and making it impossible for you to miss 
 one. I did not like this. They should have either changed it to an individual galaxy hidden around 
 the level choice planet. Or they could have kept the same system that they have right now and every 
 time one would pick a new level Mario would have to fly to the level in the "Mushroom Brigade." 
 Very similar to flying to new planets in the Kingdom Hearts Series. 
  
  I guess my point is that Mario is starting to lose what makes it Mario. I need the hidden secrets 
 and hidden levels in order for the game to be completely enjoyable and it cannot be too easy. Other 
 than these small details of the game, it is the best and most entertaining Mario adventure and 
 revolutionizes the plat-former genre.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariosonic91
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  This games is filled with excitements and thrills and even the classic mario many have grown to 
 love. Now its even more out of this world as it takes place.... out of this world. Mario's latest 
 platformer has brought classic and refreshing life to mario with fantastic level designs, easy 
 to use controls, and music that will continue inside your head even after you turned off the game.
 
  
  
  Story 10/10: Every 100 years a comet passes over their planet and tonight was the night. It was 
 a celebration at the mushroom kingdom and peach 
  formally invites mario to join her through a nice classic letter ( like mario 64) . As mario arrives 
 he only finds Bowser attacking the kingdom and lifting peaches castle into space. This section 
 is a classic mario saving peach-type story, but this time theres alot more at steak. As you travel 
 through space you encounter a woman named Rosalina. She is the watcher over stars and needs your 
 help rescuing grand stars and power stars to fuel her observatory and in return she will help you 
 rescue princess peach. Given these light details thers alot going on in galaxy especially bowser's 
 plan to rule the universe. As you play, you will learn of the power of lumas, the stars and even 
 Rosilina's past. For Mario's platformering stories, this one is definitly a step up.
  
  Gameplay 10/10: As you guessed youll be zooming from planet to planet with gravity taking its role, 
 but how would they make mario controls fit. The truth is they couldnt of made it easier (IMO) . These 
 are standard platform controls but with a unique addition with the use of the wii remote. With 
 just a simple shake mario unleases a powerful spining attack that can stun or even destroy enemies. 
 The same movement is used to throw objects, activate switches, screw in screws and even launch 
 yourself to the next planet. The cursor is used just as well. Starbits are small items you collect 
 that have many uses: feeding lumas to open new paths, stunning enemies at far away distances, and 
 even as currency through the game. It only takes aiming the remote cursor at them to draw them 
 in and pressing B to fire them for the several task. The controls continue through the game yet 
 it stays surprisingly fun because the game continues to find new ways to use them. Level design 
 is amazing with dozens of galaxies possibly hundreds of planets over all and special costumes transforming 
 mario into bees, boos and even old classic power ups . The most impressive thing to the natural 
 gameplay is that even as you go upside down, sideways, in and out of things, the camera is always 
 at the right angle. For times that need you to look around, its the simple use of the D-pad. Simple 
 machanics cleverly used to make this one of mario's best games.
  
  Graphics 10/10: Even on the wii, there are games that show next gen graphics at least to its catagory 
 and Mario galay is one of them. Nintendo has always been able to get more power out of its hardware 
 simply because they made it and they have saved the best, sharpest, most colorful graphics for 
 none other than their own mascot.
  
  Sound 10/10: Well orchastrated pieces throughout the game. ALong with tunes that will stay in your 
 head, the game also brings up old tunes you may have forgotten. Classic song revived including 
 the original underground music from mario bros, super mario 3's main song and even bowser's world 
 music from super mario 64. If the music pleases you, than so will every single classic and new 
 sound effect will too. The 1-up sound, character voices are lovely and you shall never tire of 
 the sound when 
  you launch from a star.
  
  I get the feeling that this was to celebrate Mario's 25th birthday and even after all these years 
 he still has his charm. This game is a must have for wii owners and will bring interest to those 
 without the console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Please listen to: 
  
  http://www. gametrailers. com/player/usermovies/132302. html 
  
  on another tab while reading this review. It heightens the experience!
  
  The Good: Amazingly 
 unique and clever platforming abilities and puzzles really test your maneuvering and skill with 
 the red hatted plumber; blasting from planet to planet is loads of fun; different costumes such 
 as Bee, and Ice Mario are a blast to use; a myriad of charming characters; graphics look amazing; 
 some of the best orchestrated music that I've ever heard; a long adventure to journey through with 
 bonuses and extras to keep you busy.
  
  Think back. Remember, a long time ago, when Mario was a 2D sprite who jumped from object to object, 
 Koopa to Koopa, and Goomba to Goomba with mastery of mid-air control? Now, think back, a little 
 closer to the present. Mario in 3D. A mastery of jumping, flying and rapidly spinning Bowser until 
 he hurled the giant Koopa into a bomb that floated lazily on the outside of the platform. And who 
 can forget Mario with his Flash Liquidizing Ultra Dousing Device: Fludd in Super Mario Sunshine. 
 Now, the present: Super Mario Galaxy. Yes, this is that same Mario, but you've never seen him like 
 this before.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy keeps up with all of the original formulas. Mario basically jumps from object 
 to object and from enemy to enemy. However, now he can launch from planet to planet. He also comes 
 equipped with a handy new spin attack, which can send his enemies flying in a dizzy spiral. How 
 does he have all of these new abilities? It turns out that Bowser has struck again. Big surprise, 
 huh? This time, during the Star Festival: a festival that occurs every one hundred years, when 
 a meteor flies across the sky, and small bits of stars fall from the heavens. Bowser suddenly swoops 
 out of the sky with a fleet of pirate ships. He lifts up Peach's castle from the ground, and drags 
 her to the center of the universe where he plans to make his own galaxy, and, pretty much, destroy 
 the current one. Mario is blasted into space, where he meets Rosalina and little star children 
 called Lumas. Rosalina wishes to reunite you with Princess Peach, but, sadly, her ship doesn't 
 have power. To give it power, you have to collect Grand Stars, and in order to collect grand stars, 
 which are currently in Bowser's possession, you need to find regular stars. Stars are found on 
 all of the planets which you must travel to. When you collect enough stars, you are able to unlock 
 new planets, and, eventually, you'll unlock the planet holding the Grand Star (which is also the 
 boss level) .
  To help Mario on his way, she gives him a little Luma, one which helps him blast to different galaxies 
 and planets, and lets him use his spin attack which is done by shaking the Wii Remote. 
  
  You've probably noticed that the most unique feature of this new Mario title is the gravity. Each 
 time you land on a planet, you're able to keep your feet on ground by the realistic gravity effects. 
 You can run around the planet, jump over the edge of some, and emerge completely harmless on the 
 other side. It's amazing! Sometimes planets are even clustered together closely, so all you have 
 to do is jump, and viola, you're on another planet. It's one of the most unique feelings that you'll 
 ever feel in any video game. Platforming and gravity effects make this adventure the best on all 
 fronts.
  
  I cannot stress enough how amazing the platforming scenarios are. Walking on ceilings, blasting 
 out of a volcano right when it erupts, ice skating on lava! There is simply no end to the innovative 
 level design.
  
  To help Mario on his way, various costume mushrooms are spread throughout the necessary stages. 
 You've probably seen Bee Mario, and there's no doubt that you know about Fire Mario, but there 
 also a couple of others that make the platforming elements shine even brighter. 
  
  Ice Mario is back. With Ice Mario, you're able to walk and skate on the surface of the water as 
 it freezes beneath you. Ice Mario can also work his magic on lava! Boo Mario is a new addition. 
 By shaking the Wii Remote, Boo Mario can turn transparent and travel through specific walls and 
 bars. Also, if Boo Mario touches light, be it from chandeliers or holes in the ceiling, he'll turn 
 back to normal. Spring Mario is also a new addition. Though a bit harder to control, Spring Mario 
 is a blast to play around with. Spring Mario has no Wii controls. Instead, it all comes down to 
 pressing the "A" button right when Mario hits the ground to get a high bounce. Finally, my personal 
 favorite, Rainbow Mario. He doesn't appear as much as you'd like him to, but when you find a star, 
 Mario goes into Star Mode. He's invincible, and his speed increases drastically as you continue 
 running. Mario's ready for anything this time around.
  
  Now for the graphics. They look amazing. Mario's been cleaned up nicely, and so have all of friends... and 
 enemies. The frame rate is also constantly smooth. Super Mario Galaxy looks amazing, plain and 
 simple. It's no doubt the best looking Mario game ever!
  
  The music is *sniffs*... beautiful. It's some of the best orchestrated music that I've ever heard. 
 It's amazing! If I could give it a 15 out of 10 I would. I'd even go higher! The sound effects 
 are the same bloops and bleeps you've' been hearing from the series for a while. Mario makes a 
 little... yelp, battle cry... or something when he jumps, and when you jump on a goomba, you hear 
 a... sort of... you know.... bloop. It still sounds great after all of these years.
  
  There are 120 stars to collect, but you only need to collect sixty to reach the final stage. However, 
 you'll be coming back every once in a while to collect the extras for the secret surprise at the 
 end.
  
  Altogether, Super Mario Galaxy, in my eyes, is perfect, and I rarely ever give a perfect rating. 
 I cannot urge you enough to get this game. Between the different suits, platforming scenarios, 
 and gravity functions, there's absolutely no reason why Super Mario Galaxy shouldn't be in your 
 collection. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetruth7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  -The best graphics you will find on the Wii
  -Great, fun, and unique level designs
  -Responsive Wii controls
  -Unique gameplay
  -Will 
 last you a LONG time...
  -Fun music that fits perfectly
  
  Cons:
  
  -Minor swimming and Mario transformations controls...
  
  Final Thoughts:
  
  With great 
 graphics and gameplay, why wouldn't you get this? Also... it's Mario! Swimming IS still a minor 
 problem, same with a few of the things that Mario can transform into, but practice can easily solve 
 that... This game would last several hours because of the 120 star collection... Also you can have 
 a second player play with you, that player's role is to support Mario in several interesting ways... With 
 those said... this is truly another Mario masterpiece, instant classic, and a must get... so...
 
  
  What are you waiting for... get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryuthekaizer1
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2008 4:36 am PT
Review:  Mario is quite possibly the king of games. He's known by just about everyone these days, even the 
 non-gaming community. He's like what Micky Mouse is to Disney and a gaming icon that will probably 
 remain as one of the greatest in history for a very, very long time. 
  
  Mario's new game, Super Mario Galaxy has already been regarded as one of the best platformers of 
 all time by many other gaming publications and websites. It looks to be Mario finest outing yet. 
 So let's find out what's in store for you. 
  
  First of all I would just like to say, this game is nearly flawless. In everyway the game seems 
 to impress and surprise you all the way through. Nintendo have taken the Mario franchise and have 
 really thought about it with this game, they've really put the effort into it and created something 
 that manageable of competing with Ocarina of Time, which has the status of being the greatest game 
 of all time (for those who didn't know) . Secondly, let's move away from this and find out just 
 why it's this good. 
  
  As you'd imagine, this is still your typical Mario Platformer. Everything feels the same as any 
 other 3D Mario game in the sense of Mario himself. Controlling him feels near enough perfect with 
 a few minor problems occurring when underwater and also around some of the planets found in galaxies. 
 Underwater sections can feel like controlling a drunken Mario at times and when walking around 
 some planets you'll find it hard to maneuver, due to a few minor camera issues. They're hardly 
 a worry though, as the rest of the game makes up for this by far. 
  
  With the use of gravity and different types of planets in this game, it gets very creative and 
 you'll start to see amazing moments in the game that will take you by awe. In a way it brings back 
 the magic that you felt when you first played Mario 64, another step into new gameplay and it works 
 so well. 
  
  Graphically this is the best you're going to get on the Wii. Everything is so polished and some 
 of the graphical effects are incredible. Take the beautiful water and lighting for some examples 
 and also character models which are looking very smooth indeed. 
  
  Sound wise, the game also carries an exceptional soundtrack, probably the best of any Mario game. 
 With most of it orcastrated it sounds so much better and is definitely something that Twilight 
 Princess was worthy of, but never got. Nintendo kitted out this time around though and have paid 
 for the real deal and I can definitely say "it's worth it". 
  
  Voice acting is also been revamped from previous Mario games and you'll be glad to hear Bowser 
 doesn't talk human language this time around Charles Martinet (the voice of Mario) has done a 
 brilliant job of Mario's voice, with a lot more voice samples for Mario compared to previously. 
 The game relies heavily on text speak though and this works fine and doesn't get boring, which 
 is a good thing to know. 
  
  The game has got great value as well, with 60 stars to complete the mains story of the game and 
 for hardcore players; 120. There lots of galaxies to explore and tons of features to this game, 
 so take your tine and enjoy the experience, otherwise you might regret it. 
  
  Overall, this is the best platformer I've played and is Mario's finest game yet. If you own a Wii, 
 this game is a must have! It's so fresh in ideas, while keeping the whole Mario originality to 
 it and it works so well, it's practically close to perfect. A must buy for all Wii users. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: icemanic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  ... the gameplay!!!! Mario is about the gameplay!!! This games is just, so perfect in almost every 
 aspect that it is worth buying a Wii for. The controls are sharp, the gamplay is fantastic, the 
 camera is nearly flawless, the graphics are the best possible on the platform, it has great sound 
 and it sucks you in!!! Also great replay value...
  
  The only flaw to this game is with some of the special suits being hard to control, and when you're 
 swimming, you have very little control of where you are going and it can get frustration playing 
 a boss underwater...
  
  Easily the best Wii game as of yet, and if you have a Wii, BUY THIS GAME!!!
  Worth the wait, 
 and every piece of hype you hear is 100% spot-on, this game is an instant classic and deserves 
 Game of the Year.
  This game is worth every dollar you will pay plus some more... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jckpodkid2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is an outstanding game. With fun and exciting level ideas it never gets old. 
 Whether the level requires you to be ice Mario, fire Mario, bee Mario, or ghost Mario it is always 
 fun. Swim underwater, ice skate, or flying are some of the many activities possible. The idea of 
 having the game take place in outer space is an outstanding idea and makes it a ton more interesting. 
 While it may seem like getting 120 stars with Mario and then 120 Stars with Luigi is a lot of work 
 it really isn't because the whole time new and more exciting planets and galaxies are unlocked 
 to go explore. Super Mario Galaxy utilizes the Wii Remote great. Other than the camera angles can 
 sometimes be confusing the controls are great! After gaining all 120 stars with Mario you can even 
 play as Luigi. In the Super Mario franchise saving Princess Peach never seems to get old. Also 
 the idea of Bowser in space is interesting. This game truly is all it has been cracked up to be. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottie300z
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Mario Mario Mario.
  
  I guess if you just do better than sunshine people love you.
  Now I'm not saying galaxy is a bad game, far from it. It's actually pretty good and there is some 
 fun to be had. But it isn't as good as the Mario Huzzah Circus of followers would have you believe. 
 
  
  Since there is plenty of places to go to for the positives I will focus on the negatives and what 
 could have been done.
  
  1. Lack of 2 player
  Sure it'd be awkward to have 2 people play at the same time, but am I the only one who wishes they 
 could have 2 player modes like they had with the 2d marios?
  
  2. Too cute
  Since when did the Mario universe go from youthful yet likable to something that resembles a platforming 
 kindergarten cartoon? It has always had a childish charm but they've been pushing it too far younger 
 lately.
  
  3. What has it added to the series?
  Outer space. Sure there are other things as well but they are small and the fact that hes in space 
 is really about it. The thing that made all the other marios before it so great? They had their 
 own definitive personality. Sure they were all Mario and in the same Mario universe but they were 
 all distinctively unique. Look at the difference in 3 and 2, or how about between 3 and world? 
 Or really just the difference between any of them. If you replaced the characters they would seem 
 like they weren't related. And all made the feel of the game that much better. Can't be said too 
 much about galaxy, there is a real lack of personality all together, let alone a new one.
  
  4. LInear
  Sure sure sure, you can choose which galaxy you play in what order or if your 
 going to get all the stars or not but when your actually playing the game it feels more linear 
 than half life. Just compare this to mario64. In 64 you chose your painting to jump into and once 
 there you decided how to play the level and which stars in each level you wanted. In galaxy once 
 you chose your galaxy you have to get the stars in a certain order and you are pushed in the direction 
 of that star the whole way through. In 64 you got to explore but in galaxy your presented with 
 a chore that while fun is sort of a play by the rules affair. It leaves a bit to be wanted, after 
 all it is space, lets explore some stuff. Makes the game feel dry and a bit uninspiring.
  
  Now all that said does not mean I don't like Galaxy. It has plenty of things going for it. However, 
 it just puzzles me as to why many think this is the best mario ever. My theory is just that its 
 a fun new mario, something people have wanted for awhile and since they have gotten a bit tired 
 of the old ones herald this one in like its king. But for the reasons stated above, this belongs 
 towards the bottom of the traditional mario list.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skinless_Snail
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Mario Galaxy certainly is like no other. Similar, sure, but the level design distiguishes it from 
 all of it's cousins. 
  
  Pros:
  *Awesome gameplay
  *Beautiful Music
  *Many references to previous Mario games
  *Nice variety of levels/ galaxies
  *Luigi actually 
 plays an active roll
  
  Cons:
  *Somewhat annoying camera
  *Relatively easy
  *Koopa Kid is still obnoxious
  
  
  Gameplay:
  Super Mario Galaxy's gameplay is like the 
 two previous GameCube installments. Peach is in trouble, so collect stars (which always seems to 
 be the case) and find her. This time, you take a trip into the unknown and travel to some nicely 
 designed galaxies. The concept is well demonstrated, but sometimes the camera doesn't cooperate 
 with you when exploring these bizzare planets. All-in-all the designers did a great job at implementing 
 the wii usage. 
  
  Music:
  This is where Galaxy really shines! The music in this game go beyond anything any other Mario game 
 has done before (and they all have good music) . The music is usually performed by a symphony, but 
 there are occasional "synth" songs, many of which will bring back memories to the late '80s early 
 '90s. The music does a great job at adding to the world of Galaxy.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are crisp, but occasionally you can see pixiled textures. I'm not that concerned about 
 graphics. I'm about gameplay (and music) , but I usually include this section for people who are 
 concerned with graphics.
  
  
  ~~~~ I definately recommend playing this game.~~~~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bighaben
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  I waited, painfully until Christmas to get this game, and it was very much worth the wait. This 
 game is near perfect in every sense of the word. Its so perfect its hard to find things wrong with 
 it, but after some serious sluething, and some soul searching I did find a few things wrong with 
 it, and its a sad day when I figure that some of these things were really just completely avoidable. 
 
  
  First the bad, out of the few suits you'll get everyone one of them is just lacking in some area. 
 The bee suit is fun at first, but would be so much easier if you could just have an extra second 
 of flying time, the spring suit is hard to use, and you'll find yourself jumping off of platforms 
 you never meant too, and you ask yourself if it would have just been more fun to leave it out all 
 together. Bad camera angles are back, and while you can control it in some area's, when you really 
 need to control the camera you can't. I cannot figure out why its this way, but it is, its frustrating, 
 but not the end of the world.
  
  The good, luckily comes in droves, this is a very, very, very fun game to play, and a fun game 
 to watch. My family enjoys watching me play, the humor is top-notch, and is in perfect balance 
 of what you would expect from a Mario game. While a tad hard to get used, the gravity aspect of 
 the game is incredibly fun, intuitive, and very original. By far the best thing to happen to a 
 platformer since... Mario. The puzzles range from easy, to mildly hard, and you'll have fun running 
 threw them again, and exploring the levels. I was a little upset by the fact there were less stars 
 in each level, but there are more levels, each of them wonderfully designed.
  
  There are a wealth of mini-games, and just like in Mario 64 they are very fun, challenging, and 
 somehow complete the game, however one of them is broken, and how anyone can complete it is beyond 
 me, but whatever, its just one star! Anyways, my only qualm is that they didn't bring back slides... I 
 love slides, of course I haven't gotten every star, so I wouldn't know, but I'm pretty sure there 
 aren't any, I want my slides back!
  
  This game is, to me, the true sequel to Mario 64, it is just as revolutionary, just as fun, actually 
 longer, the music is better, and overall, it will go down as one of the best games ever made.
 
  
  It deserves Gamespots game of the year award, you'll never have more fun playing a game as you 
 will playing this game.
  
  Buy it, if you don't have a Wii, find a Wii, buy it, and get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobylim
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  This game is defenetly one of my favorite. Graphics are really beautiful, we can really see how 
 nintendo improved from the gamecube to the wii. The lighting is a interesting yet major improvement. 
 The animations are really good and cool, especcially when you croutch (just WOW! really cartoonish 
 just like mario!!) Also, what about the cinematics... they are rendered! Full effects, textures... 
 What a nice job!
  Storyline as always is kinda really simple. And personnally, I dont expect much or WANT much from 
 mario story. I really enjoy Bowser he is just so... nice! It's one of my favorite vilan of any 
 games! Anyway, I think mario players don't want a lot of cutscenes with story and everything. We 
 want pure, yet REAL gameplay. If you wan story, you can go to the library listen to the ''cute'' 
 yet really kid like story which I must admit was a total waste of time. But anyway It's gameplay 
 we want right?
  So Let's talk about it. It's awesome. All the things about gravity... Excellent job! there is so 
 many different original way the use the gravity to hide object or to complete parts of level. Wether 
 it add more challenge or simply look cool, this was such a good improvement to the game!
  The levels are always original and feels like new. Some people might think oh well, youll need 
 to sdo the same level 6 times for 6 stars ahhh boring. NO, this is not true! Every single star 
 seems like if it was a complete new level. The paths will be different, the challenge and gameplay 
 too! The use of the wiimote are excellent and really change between levels.
  Also, the is many costumes which transform mario, and here again, it make the game really feels 
 like a new experience. Every level is interesting, and cool looking. This game is Awesome, no doubt 
 about it!
  Even I think this game deserve a perfect 10, I found some things that is not perfect.
  Boss fight 
 can gets repetitive. you will fight the same boss but just a little harder later on the game. But 
 on short term, it will not bother anyone. I found some gravity bugs, but they are rare and will 
 not ruin your gameplay. The reward for finishing the game a secound time is a total letdown. The 
 multiplayer is nothing really exciting. But except that, I found everything perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrMan2000
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  First off... let me say I'm not a huge Mario fan. I enjoyed Mario 64 when it came out and played 
 some of the games from the NES and SNES. All of them were always very well done and enjoyable. 
 But I've always been frustrated by the repetition involved which equates to requiring gamers to 
 memorize patterns and responses. Yes... early gaming basically consisted of nothing else but in 
 the last 10 years gaming has evolved to something much more. 
  
  Still.... I picked the game up pretty quickly after it came out because it offered such promise 
 and I was hoping that someone would come up with a way to appropriately utilize the Wii. 
  
  And he game is clearly a success. The levels really are ingenious and the sheer variety of 
 worlds makes playing an endless journey through new and different environments. Any platform fan 
 will be immediately addicted. 
  
  But I'm not really a platformer fan. Basically I can play the game for 30 minutes at a time... which 
 means I'll complete the game sometime in 2012. And that's fine with me. I enjoy while I play then 
 play a game that I can REALLY get into (like Rock Band, Bioshock, Orange Box or Assassin's Creed) . 
 
  
  It does exactly what it promised... deliver the most up-to-date, massive, innovative and (most importantly) 
 fun Mario experience to date. That's pretty much enough, isn't it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manhunt92
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  "It's the best game ever created" "Nintendo's best game" "It wannna makes me cry" I always heard 
 that kind of things on the Internet, and thou they were all lies it's definetily an awesome game, 
 this is what Mario really is: something so simple and so fun at the same time it's challenging 
 but no stresing.
  
  
  Story: The best of all, you know Bowser kidnappeds Peach and all that, but then he takes the Castle 
 to the space, then Mario trys to grab to the castle and ends up in a spacechip-planetarium that 
 travels all around the universe. There he meets Rosalina (who look like peach don't know why) a 
 woman whos past is a mistery, she tells you that you must rerturn to work the planetarium by collecting 
 the power stars that are all over the diferent galxies. And you will recieve the help of some little 
 gyus too.
  
  Gameplay: Good, a little anoying sometimes with that small planets thing, but t's aceptable. It 
 balances very well the classic style with the wiimote feature. You move, jumo, look, normally but 
 to do a spin-attack you must move the remote, this attack it's maybe the most important thing you 
 do with the wiimote.
  
  Graphics: The best, even better than Super Mario Sunshine, they are like a liitle darker, it's 
 hard to describe but they're great.
  
  Music: EXCELENT, really emotive! It's awesome and every time the planetarium gets a little more 
 power it's music changes more and more to an orchestraly form
  
  The galaxies are really well designed, the battles with Bowser are awesome, and after finishing 
 the game there are other 60 stars to collect, what happens when you get them all? still don't know! 
 Another thing I really liked it's you'l be getting hep from Luigi, for example and some toads that 
 are funny. At the end it's until now the best Mario, and a game that every wii owner must have, 
 it's obligatory! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flusaka
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  What to say about Super Mario Galaxy? It's awesome. After seeing the first videos of it I never 
 really took a keen interest until I re-watched them later and saw various other footage. Having 
 bought a Wii recently, I had to get Super Mario Galaxy, it's pretty much a requirement for any 
 Nintendo console owner, you have to have at least one Mario game.
  
  But the fact of the matter is that Super Mario Galaxy is incredibly fun. Although the Wii console 
 is obviously aimed towards more family-based games, Super Mario Galaxy sort of retains what we 
 loved from the old games, and that's a great platformer that's challenging, but keeps you playing.
 
  
  Graphics-wise, the game looks amazing. The smoothness of all the textures and the models, with 
 the nice effects and lighting makes the game look incredible. The planets are extremely highly 
 detailed for a Wii game, and really shows the console's capabilities. Whilst it may not be up to 
 scratch with the Xbox 360 and the PS3 in terms of graphics, this really is not what the Wii's about. 
 We really don't need to see a 10 million polygon version of Mario just yet.
  
  On the gameplay side of things, it's all pretty tightened down and solid throughout. With the idea 
 of having all the separate galaxies but then having the side galaxies also makes the game's longevity 
 extend loads. As well as that, you have the comets which come in orbit of the galaxies which wil 
 change a certain aspect and that just increases the fun, how challenging it is, but also makes 
 the game a lot longer for those who want to 100% complete it.
  
  I don't really need to talk about the story as I'm sure a lot of Mario fans can already guess what 
 it's going to be. That's right, the Princess is once again kidnapped by Bowser and you have to 
 go rescue her. Although this is the typical storyline for Mario now, it never seems to get old, 
 especially with the new and different setting for the game, it makes the story seem fresh.
  
  The sounds are all very, very well done, typical Mario sounds as you'd expect. I've always 
 loved the sound the grab stars make when you pull yourself into them, it really adds to the rest 
 of the effect.
  
  There aren't really that many criticisms that I can think of for Super Mario Galaxy, but I've always 
 found the boss battles quite easy, and it always seems to be 3 hits to defeat them. Obviously they 
 don't want it to be too challenging for the younger audience, but maybe a difficulty system would've 
 been in order. Although the comets that make you only have 1 life obviously add to difficulty, 
 it would be better to see it throughout the whole game, in my opinion.
  
  Overall I've given Super Mario Galaxy a 9.5, a brilliant game, definitely shows the capabilities 
 of the Wii and is just great fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kegeto
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2008 7:29 pm PT
Review:  that what i hear when Mario comes into play when i first saw this i am like yeah it not going to 
 do as good as 64. but when it came out i was impress about how this game came to be i feel in love 
 with it and i know nintendo fan fell in love with it and those who didnt can go bite me. but the 
 storyline was beautifull as well as the way they did this game all though this game is easy to 
 pick up. the game play doesnt get comaptive which is good thing. but i still kinda miss it. but 
 you get to be Fire mario like the good old days. Bowser and his kid ( i always want to ask on how 
 Boswer got the kid) will try to stop you to get the grand star and resuce the princess once again 
 like from the 1980 over 20 years ago. but what makes this game more challanging his camrea and 
 going upside down and others which made this game a must have for the wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nmafilms
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  Here it is! Super Mario Galaxy for the Nintendo Wii. Where do I start? Well, let's see. How about 
 FANTASTIC? No? Then, how about PHENOMINAL? Still doesn't work? Okay then. PHENOMITASICALISMIC!!! 
 There it is. The heavy hitter for Nintendo for the last quarter of '07. No doubt the best Wii game 
 released to date. Like most other gamers, I had a very hard time sticking to one specific title 
 until it was beaten. Jumping back and forth from Mass Effect (review coming soon) to Rock Band 
 (review coming soon) to Assassin's Creed (review coming soon) . I still had not yet picked up Super 
 Mario Galaxy! The reason why my review posting has been a bit slow is because I put this game in 
 my Wii. It has robbed me of playing the other titles. And that's not a complaint. Not taking anything 
 away from those other great titles I mentioned earlier. 
  
  The first thing I noticed while playing this game was how great Mario and his universe looked on 
 the Wii. The look was polished right down to its magnificent shine. And I do mean shine. There's 
 a celebration going on in the Mushroom Kingdom! But oh no! It's Bowser and flying fleet! The celebration 
 is ruined and the Princess? You guessed it. Kidnapped. 
  
  Bowser's flying ships chain to the castle (which Peach on the balcony) and rip it from the ground. 
 Mario runs and leaps on but is thrown off twirling into space. Mario wakes up on a planet in the 
 Gateway Galaxy. He is met by floating star shaped creatures called Lumas. Mario is then introduced 
 to Rosalina. She then explains that she is the watcher of the stars and that the Lumas have different 
 special abilities. Rosalina trusts in Mario the responsibility to watch over one certain Luma that 
 gives him his spinning ability.
  
  Like the other 3D Mario titles, the game play revolves around Mario traveling around to different 
 worlds and completing certain tasks and beating bosses for Stars. There are a total of 120 Power 
 Stars. Only 60 required to give the observatory ship the necessary power to travel to the center 
 of the universe to save Peach. This is THE best control set up for the remote and nun chuck. The 
 controls are flawless, and very fluid. Controlling Mario in Galaxy, I thought, was much easier 
 than controlling him in 64 and Sunshine. It's been hard for me to take to a Mario title after playing 
 (religiously, mind you) Super Mario World for the SNES. Not that the Mario titles that were released 
 after World were bad, it's just that none of them held me to play them like it did. It was great 
 to save Peach again! It was also great to see all of the old "baddies" come back! Enemies and environments 
 from Super Mario Bros. 3 to Super Mario World are in Galaxy and looking amazing! Not to mention 
 the great soundtrack. The theme to Mario is recognizable to almost everyone. Why? Because it was 
 a great song. Have I been whistling the Good Egg Galaxy theme? Yes. Yes I have. The soundtrack 
 is great and memorable. 
  
  The level design is incredible. Navigating the galaxies and their planets is so easy and fun. The 
 Star Pointer is awesome. Whether you're flying through the air, or just running around, it's easy 
 to use. Every different planet in every galaxy has it's own gravitational pull, and it's great 
 to navigate stages that specifically revolve around different gravity pulls. It's tricky. It's 
 great to see a body of water suspended above you. The swimming controls are just as easy as on 
 the ground or flying. 
  
  The boss battles are well done, though none of them really posed much of a problem. For myself, 
 personally, Bouldergiest caused me the most trouble. Maybe more than he should, but any who. The 
 confrontations with Bowser are great! It was great to see some awesome cinematics in a Mario game. 
 Mario is a badass in this title. And there are a lot of words spoken. The power ups in Galaxy are 
 a lot of fun. A lot of them new! The bee suit (gives you the ability to fly for whenever you like 
 as long as you don't come into contact with any water) , the Red Star (free fly) , the ability to 
 walk and skate on lava and water. The only one that I wasn't a huge fan of was the spring Mario, 
 which gives you the ability to bounce really high. At some points there is no way to avoid it. 
 You will need to use it sooner or later. 
  
  I know that this review, when you read it, sounds more like a "Oh my god this game rocks!" type 
 of gab. My other reviews go into more of why it's bad and why it's good type of details. I guess 
 there is just so much in this game that is just perfect. I can't really think of anything that 
 I hated about the game. I enjoyed Super Mario Galaxy just as much (if not a little more than) Super 
 Mario World! If you own a Wii and you don't own Super Mario Galaxy, there's something wrong with 
 you.
  
  One last thing. This game makes you keep coming back. Try to get all 120 stars. Or maybe there's 
 more! (hint hint) Maybe you'll run into a playable character! Maybe you'll unlock new galaxies! 
 Collect those Star Bits. Feed those hungry Lumas! Most of all enjoy the hell out of Super Mario 
 Galaxy!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doobs87
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  After playing through Super Mario Galaxy, it's really easy to realize one thing. The Mario series 
 has always been and will always be Nintendo's greatest franchise. Not Zelda, not Metroid, not Super 
 Smash Bros, but Mario. I'm not exaggerating when I say that this is the best 3D platformer I have 
 ever played, and it has usurped Super Mario World as my favorite Mario game ever.
  
  But what makes this game so spectacular? Well, to start off with, it has that classic Mario game 
 play that we all know and [hopefully] love. It does feel a lot like Super Mario 64. But that is 
 where the similarities end between those two games. Galaxy is a better game in literally every 
 way. Perhaps it might not have the same impact that 64 did, but it is better. Let's start with 
 the level design. Right off the bat, you are thrust into some seriously creative levels, and they 
 only get better and weirder as the game progresses. Each galaxy has a specific theme, ranging from 
 the relatively mundane, like a desert, to the incredible, like my personal favorite so far, the 
 toy galaxy. Unlike Super Mario Sunshine, which was restricted by its island theme, in Galaxy, anything 
 goes. The only thing better than the galaxies themselves is how you navigate them. This game has 
 a whole lot of fun with perspective shifts and shifting gravity. By now you've probably seen Mario 
 circumnavigating small planets and hopping on enemies while he's upside down. Believe me, that's 
 par for the course in this game.
  
  Nintendo has also added some Wii-specific game play to take advantage of the console. However, 
 it's fairly subtle. Don't take that as a knock against the game. It's quite the opposite, actually, 
 as I'm very happy that Nintendo decided not to mess with the pitch-perfect controls for the sake 
 of forced Wii control. What is there is a great addition. Mario's primary attack is a spin, which 
 can be accessed by shaking the Wiimote, and it feels very natural. Similarly, you can shake the 
 remote to use launch stars that blast you like a cannon to other parts of the level. The pointer 
 is also used to collect star-bits, which sort of take the place of coins in this game and are used 
 to feed Lumas (more on them later) . The remote is even used to control some of the suits that Mario 
 picks up. The addition of these suits is great for the game. When Mario picks up a specific mushroom 
 (or a flower, or a star) , he gains all sorts of cool powers, like a bee suit which lets him hover, 
 a boo suit that lets him float and pass through walls, and my old-school favorite, the fire flower! 
 Props to Nintendo for finally including this great power-up in a 3D Mario game. There are other 
 powers, but I won't spoil them for you here.
  
  I'm happy to report that the game's presentation is as fantastic as the game play. The game looks 
 stunning. Technically, it's not on the level of a 360 or PS3, but it still looks beautiful. Everything 
 is so saturated with color, and the funky level designs only add to an already cool-looking game. 
 It also runs like butter, which is really nice, and even the camera is good, a rarity in 3D Mario 
 games. Even better though is the sound. The sound effects are perfect, and the minimal voice acting 
 (grunts and the like) is adequate, but the soundtrack is supremely good. It's fully orchestrated, 
 and some of the tracks, like the waltz that plays in the hub world, are some of the best music 
 in a Mario game. It's a great mixture of old and new, as you'll also hear some great remixes of 
 classic Mario music. In the end, it sounds both like a classic Mario game and like classical music.
 
  
  Even the story is improved (albeit only a little) over older Mario games. Mario still has to save 
 peach, who's been kidnapped by Bowser and taken to the center of the universe. Ostensibly, your 
 base of operations is a space station, the Comet Observatory, which is populated by Lumas (cute, 
 pudgy little star critters) , and by Rosalena, who takes care of them. Each station has sectors 
 where you observe galaxies, and from these galaxies you collect power stars and grand stars, which 
 are used to power up the station to it can travel to the center of the universe and save Peach. 
 The more stars you collect, the more galaxies open up, and you can make even more galaxies appear 
 by feeding star bits to hungry Lumas. There's a somewhat sad and interesting back story for Rosalena, 
 but the main point is that the story is there to serve the game play, as it should be in a Mario 
 game.
  
  If I had to raise any criticism against this game, it might be that it's fairly easy to beat the 
 game with 60 stars (out of 120) . The game is generous with 1-up mushrooms, and there aren't many 
 parts that will cause you to die repeatedly. However, it gets tougher when you try to collect all 
 the stars (though I haven't gotten to this point yet) , but this is ultimately a game that wants 
 to be beaten, though actually completing it is another thing. I've spent maybe 15 hours so far, 
 and I have 58 stars, so this could be a very lengthy adventure if you go for completion.
  
  I guess what I love so much about Super Mario Galaxy is that it is simply one of the most fun games 
 I have ever played. Everything about it is geared to give the player one of the purest and most 
 entertaining video game experiences ever, and it succeeds. The stunning level design, the great 
 classic game play with some cool twists, and the incredible presentation will surely keep you hooked. 
 This is the reason to buy a Wii, and it is a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meowcow22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  It's So fun 2 play i'm constantly on it! It's got brilliant gameplay, There's no problems with 
 the Camera work. The Graphics is near perfect. I love the Levels there funny and creative along 
 with cool and fun. The Characters on the game are cool funny and creative too! I really like the 
 new power-ups/mushroom thingys especially the Ice Mario. Along with the Bee Mario! Its-a-bee-a-mario! 
 (sorry corny) It's really top class the Storline's great and I really enjoy playing it! I won't 
 spoil it all for you! so GOODBYE! meowcow22 Sonic & the Secret Rings
  Sonic, Sega's popular hedgehog hero, makes his debut on the Nintendo Wii in Sonic and the Secret 
 Rings. Sorry about that. I was Bored. I really enjoy the controls! free and easy peasy. Lot's o' 
 mario moves too! Luigi's on it too so there's another plus 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick15uk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 11:39 am PT
Review:  Nintendo has really, truly fleshed out the Mario brand and effectively the entire platforming genre 
 with Super Mario Galaxy. Nintendo's 3rd 3D Mario game since the fantastic Super Mario 64 back in 
 1996. People will say it is similar to that title and in many ways it is but it builds and expands 
 upon it in more ways than I thought was possible. 
  
  First off the visuals, while they are enormously more detailed and with smoother textures and a 
 fantastic frame-rate are quite similar to Super Mario Sunshine's. I expected the variety of worlds 
 (or galaxies as they are called here) to include such Mario classics as a lava world, desert world, 
 ghost mansion, etc etc and Super Mario Galaxy doesn't disappoint in this department. Even including 
 new style worlds such as 'Battlerock Galaxy' and 'Spacejunk Galaxy' to tie-in with the games space 
 theme. 
  
  The games soundtrack is one of the many high points featuring an orchestral soundtrack and some 
 brilliant new Mario tunes that you will be humming for months to come. There's not much in the 
 way of a storyline, but then again who cares? Basically the main aim of the game is to collect 
 120 power stars and save the princess from Bowser much like the other two 3D games. Nintendo has 
 decided to stick with a winning formula and I totally agree with them. Every piece of this gem-of-a-game 
 is platforming at it's finest. Nintendo has truly gone where no platformer has gone before. 
  
  However there a two minor flaws that I have noticed thus far. One being the sometimes erratic 
 camera which has been a problem for some time in Mario games. The other being that some of the 
 Mario special suits don't work as well as one would have hoped - the flying suit being an example. 
 
  
  But this is a landmark title that will be the basis for all future platformers to follow. Ground-breaking. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljlrj
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Mario. The name alone is instantly recognizable around the world, and almost anyone who's ever 
 held a video game controller should have at least one memory of playing through the portly plumbers 
 numerous adventures. His latest entry in the gaming world, Super Mario Galaxy, is certainly not 
 short on memorable moments itself, and like many Mario games before it, Galaxy is destined to re-define 
 the platforming genre in ways no one could have ever imagined. Without question, Super Mario Galaxy 
 is an out-of-this-world experience you won't soon forget.
  
  The more things change, however, the more they stay the same. Like most of Mario's previous quests, 
 Galaxy starts off with the kidnapping of Princess Peach and it's up to the humble plumber to brave 
 dangerous worlds and once again rescue his sweetheart. However, this time around Bowser has plans 
 of cosmic proportion, and with Peach by his side, plans to expand his empire across the entire 
 universe, ruling it with an iron claw.
  
  After a stunning introductory prologue, surely leave you smiling ear to ear from both the amazing 
 visuals and waves of nostalgia, players begin their journey on a cosmic observatory high above 
 the Mushroom Kingdom. It is there that Mario meets Princess Rosalina, who acts as his guide, bestowing 
 upon him a new spin move and allowing him access to transportation across the universe so that 
 he may regain enough Power Stars to ultimately arrive at his final confrontation with the King 
 of the Koopas.
  
  Nintendo certainly won't win any awards for originality here, but Mario games have never really 
 been about story and this is quite evident in Galaxy. However, some might consider this minimalist 
 approach an improvement over Super Mario Sunshine, which featured uninspired plot twists and weak 
 voice acting that ultimately dragged the presentation down. In keeping it simple, Nintendo has 
 allowed the emphasis in Galaxy to stay where it belongs (gameplay) while still managing to deliver 
 an experience that feels truly epic; quite the accomplishment for a Mario title.
  
  Part of what helps Galaxy to achieve this epic feel is an area that Nintendo has finally shown 
 some willingness to change: music. While some MIDI tracks still persist, a good portion of Super 
 Mario Galaxy's soundtrack was recorded with a live orchestra, something Nintendo has ruled against 
 using in past games. This orchestral sound really allows the music of Mahito Yokota and Koji Kondo 
 to come alive like never before. Brand new tunes, like the empowering Good Egg Galaxy theme, or 
 the soothing Observatory overworld music, are sure to become instant favorites, while tracks from 
 previous Mario games (like the athletic theme from Super Mario Bros. 3 or the Bowser dark world 
 music from Super Mario 64) will undoubtedly delight old-school Mario fans. Whether or not this 
 will signal a new era for Nintendo soundtracks in future games remains unknown, but it's certainly 
 a step in the right direction and Super Mario Galaxy benefits enormously from it.
  
  Of course, it also doesn't hurt that Galaxy is, hands down, the best looking Wii game released 
 so far for the young system. The visuals achieved by Nintendo's EAD Tokyo studio are simply above 
 and beyond any other Wii title, and we're finally seeing a developer push a game beyond something 
 a last generation system could manage. Galaxy's visuals are beautiful in motion, imaginative and 
 colorful, and the game runs a fluid 60 frames per second without a hitch. Visual effects are numerous 
 and water is beautifully rendered, putting Super Mario Sunshine (a game designed around the concept 
 of water) to shame. Galaxy is a showcase of just how amazing Wii games can look, so let's hope 
 other developers take notice of the extreme amount of polish that Nintendo given its flagship game.
 
  
  While Nintendo may be pushing forward in new directions in terms of visuals and sound, from a design 
 standpoint Super Mario Galaxy travels back to the franchise's roots for its gameplay. The game 
 plays a bit like a hybrid of the classic 2-D Mario sidescrollers and the free-roaming 3-D Mario 
 titles. Most of Galaxy's many galaxies (the term used for individual levels) are rather linear 
 in nature, at least compared with the expansive environments of Super Mario 64 and Super Mario 
 Sunshine. Players will complete minor objectives and defeat enemies on one landmass before blasting 
 off to the next until you ultimately arrive at the galaxy's star. From this standpoint, you can 
 see how it mirrors Mario's old-school games, and that's not a bad thing at all: Galaxy plays like 
 a 2-D Mario in 3-D space, and for those who had always wished Nintendo would bring a 3-D Mario 
 game closer to its NES counterparts; Galaxy is a dream come true.
  
  That's not to say all of Super Mario Galaxy's levels are of the same design. Several galaxies are 
 of the larger, more expansive variety found in Mario 64 and Sunshine, with plenty of opportunities 
 for freedom and exploration comparable to those games as well. What all these levels offer you 
 though is variety, and lots of it. There are upwards of 40 different galaxies for Mario to explore, 
 each with their own theme and design. Whereas Sunshine had a mere handful of levels that all felt 
 the same, Galaxy offers a stunning number of fresh and unique galaxies that will challenge players 
 with a variety of different missions. Even going back to the same galaxy for secondary missions 
 opens up new areas for the player to explore, so very rarely will you get the feeling of "been 
 there, done that".
  
  For the most part, Mario controls in a very similar fashion to his other 3-dimensional outings. 
 Old standbys such as the long jump, the triple jump, and the back flip return, while new moves 
 help Nintendo's mascot better navigate his new surroundings. The spin move, for example, is done 
 by shaking the remote or nunchuck, and allows Mario to stun most enemies in a nearby radius. This 
 can be particularly useful in environments with bizarre orientation, as it can be difficult to 
 gauge your jumps in these instances. Mario can also fire star bits (collected throughout the game) 
 to stun enemies as well, often from a distance. Firing star bits is done with the B trigger in 
 combination with the IR pointer, allowing pinpoint accuracy.
  
  Speaking of star bits, these little collectibles form a minigame of sorts during Mario's adventure. 
 They can be picked up by Mario manually or by pointing the on-screen cursor at them, allowing the 
 player to multitask between platforming and collecting at the same time. Some players might find 
 gathering star bits uninteresting, while others might get enjoyment over collecting as many as 
 they can. Either way, they're an important part of Galaxy's design, as they can be used to open 
 up alternate routes in levels, buy items such as 1UPs, or even open up brand new galaxies in the 
 main hub world.
  
  What really sets Super Mario Galaxy above the rest of the crowd, however, is the actual design 
 of each individual level, as well as the game's brilliant use of gravity. Both of these aspects 
 help Galaxy to truly re-define what 3-D platforming means; finally we have a game that feels like 
 you must use all three dimensions to advance in the game. Most worlds are spherical in shape, meaning 
 Mario can run anywhere - up, down, left, right, with the ability to explore almost every inch of 
 anything you step on. This also puts an interesting twist on the game's mechanics, as controlling 
 Mario upside down must force the player to re-adjust how they control the game. Up becomes down, 
 and down becomes up, and while the change in orientation can be a bit difficult to get the hang 
 of, once you do it's easy to gain an appreciation of how fresh and fun it really is.
  
  Because his newest adventure is set in the vast regions of space, Mario must also grapple with 
 the concept of gravity. You will often find yourself using the gravity of nearby worlds to pull 
 yourself to your next destination, or conversely, dangerous hazards will pull YOU towards them 
 and you must react accordingly to keep yourself from perishing. Nintendo has really taken the ball 
 and run with it in regards to this gameplay concept, as many puzzles that Mario must master require 
 you to use gravity to your advantage. Perhaps best of all, messing around with the game's gravity 
 is just plain fun.
  
  With such a drastic shift in perspective and newfound gameplay freedom, it naturally begs the question 
 - what to do about the game's camera system? Nintendo took a fair bit of criticism over the somewhat 
 clunky manual camera of Super Mario Sunshine, and have responded by giving Galaxy an incredibly 
 smart, completely automated camera. Players need not worry about finding the right camera angles 
 to any given situation - the camera will follow Mario and place itself in positions that rarely 
 yield frustration. Aside from a few situations during the game (mostly the underwater levels) , 
 this camera system works incredible well and will allow you to focus on what matters most - platforming. 
 While the camera is locked in specific positions for most levels, there are some that allow it 
 to be centered behind Mario (with the C button) or swiveled on a pivot (with the control pad) , 
 just in case you run into any trouble. Either way, this is easily amongst the best camera control 
 you'll find in any video game.
  
  Like most other Mario games, the emphasis here is on fun over difficulty, and Super Mario Galaxy 
 is no different - at least for the first 60 stars or so (which is the minimum required to beat 
 the game) . That's not to say these early missions won't challenge you, because they will, but you 
 won't find yourself dying multiple times. Bosses are also a bit on the easy side, but are still 
 very satisfying to defeat. The game's difficulty begins to ramp up once you finish the main quest 
 and start you march towards 120 stars. Many of the later galaxies provide you will challenges that 
 test your skills like never before, but at no point do these more difficult levels ever lose their 
 fun. But to anyone who thinks Super Mario Galaxy is too easy, make sure you experience all the 
 game has to offer before jumping to such a conclusion. Satisfaction will be your reward.
  
  Mario's journey to rid the universe of Bowser's evil reign will run most gamers about 10 hours 
 to reach the end credits; this can vary depending on how much exploration and experimentation you 
 do along the way. Completing the game 100% with 120 stars, however, will take you considerably 
 longer; more than double your original completion time or more. As well, given how much Nintendo 
 has improved the Mario experience in every conceivable area over Super Mario Sunshine, it should 
 come as no surprise that they have finally given those who beat the game 100% the perfect reward. 
 That reward won't be spoiled here, but needless to say it will certainly inspire you to play through 
 the main game all over again - not that you should need further coercing, as the amount of fun 
 you'll have the first time through will be reason enough to keep playing over and over again.
 
  
  
  10 is a score that means different things to different people. To some, a score of 10 is viewed 
 as an endorsement of perfection, and as such should never be awarded because there is no such thing 
 as a perfect game. Others will argue that if you have a rating scale that includes the number 10, 
 why not use the entire scale? A 10 would then be symbolic of a rare title that does not quite reach 
 the level of perfection, but still stands well above all other games on the market in terms of 
 quality, execution, imagination, and most importantly, fun.
  
  I consider myself a part of the second group. I believe that games can and should receive a 10 
 if they truly deserve it, but such a score should not be handed out so easily. I feel too many 
 publications these days award too many games the coveted score of 10, and as such I think it has 
 diminished the honor of receiving it. However, if there is one game in the past decade or so that 
 is as deserving of such wonderful acclaim, it is Super Mario Galaxy.
  
  Why? Because Super Mario Galaxy is an example of pure fun and entertainment; a perfect demonstration 
 of why people play video games. Because Super Mario Galaxy is a wonderfully crafted and inspired 
 gameplay experience, executed to near perfection. And because Super Mario Galaxy is proof that 
 Nintendo does indeed listen to what their fans want, and it improves over its predecessors in every 
 conceivable way while pushing the 3-D platforming genre forward like no game since Super Mario 
 64 over 10 years ago. Super Mario Galaxy is not flawless, but the very few minor problems are little 
 reason to detract from its final score. This is about as good as it gets, and anyone who takes 
 pride in being a gamer owes it to themselves to experience this game at least once.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is, quite simply, is the very definition of a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Godofnerdyness
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Tons of missions to keep you occupied for a long time, Amazing graphics for a Wii game, 
 the controls work great, fun gameplay.
  
  The Bad: Not a very good story (But they did add a bonus side story you can read if you want which 
 I actually enjoyed) , rather dull multiplayer.
  
  Review: Super Mario Galaxy was one of the most hyped up Wii games. When it was being hyped up, 
 I didn't really care. It looked very weird to me, and I thought it wasn't going to be good. But 
 when it was released, everyone went insane and it even got GOTY on two or three sites, so I bought 
 it, and I was stunned.
  
  You play as.... Well, obviously Mario, and Princess Peach has been kidnapped. Again. Bowser takes 
 her away while he makes his own galaxy. Your goal is, believe it or not, to save Princess Peach 
 again. I'm sorry to say that this story has been done before in previous Mario games, however, 
 If you read a certain story-book, there is a nice bonus story which will entertain some people. 
 Moving on, the game is very similar to Mario 64. You choose an observatory, then you choose which 
 galaxy you want to do. You will get to choose from a different selection of missions, each one 
 rewarding you a star. The missions vary from "Beat the boss" to "Get to the top of the tower", 
 and there are also secret stars hidden in missions, which are sometimes hard to find, and other 
 times out in the open. When you beat a mission, you get a short cutscene and a star. You'll need 
 more stars to unlock new galaxies and such, and if you get all the stars, you may be happily surprised. 
 Now, during a mission, you will be launched to the galaxy you chose (EG Beehive galaxy) , and begin 
 your quest. The galaxies look colourful and amazing, Mr. Miyamoto has a very creative mind, haha. 
 You can attack enemies by spinning your wiimote quickly to make Mario spin and knock 'dem suckas 
 out. Enemies vary from Koopas to Bullet Bills, so not all of them die as easily. Walking is controlled 
 with the analog stick on the nunchuck, obviously. You can collect things called Star Bits during 
 missions, which you'll use to feed Hungry Lumas (I'll explain about Lumas in a minute) , and to buy 
 1-up mushrooms and power-up mushrooms from random vendors. Also every 50 star bits = one life. 
 You can run into them, or touch them with your Wiimote. They are scattered across the levels, and 
 enemies also drop them. They're colourful little gems that are incredibly easy to spot, also they're 
 shiney :D You can get coins to restore your life meter if you lose health, as well.
  
  Now, about Lumas, they're these little star creatures that inhabit the galaxies, and live on the 
 giant observatory with you and the new Princess, Rosetta. The new princess is... Not really a good 
 character. They don't develop her story enough to be honest, but hey, she's there, so live with 
 it. Moving on, boss fights against any boss confuse me. Every boss always takes 3 hits to defeat. 
 Why? I mean, their patterns get harder, and harder, but it's always 3 hits for some reason. This 
 sadly makes some bosses too easy, even the final boss was a cakewalk for me.
  
  Back on to missions, sometimes a comet will hit a galaxy, and you get to do a special mission on 
 that galaxy which could be "Race the shadow mario" or "Collect all the purple coins". These vary 
 depending on what type of comet hits. You can have a friend use a Wiimote to help you play by grabbing 
 enemies and making sure they don't jump you, getting star bits, and... well, they can hit you and 
 make you jump to annoy you if they want. It's a shame, it could of been better, but Nintendo took 
 the easy way out and made co-op too simple.
  
  In the end, Mario Galaxy is an amazing Wii game with small flaws that shouldn't make anyone too 
 angry. If you have a Wii, you need this game. My final score is 9.0 . Have fun, boys and girls. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshsta7
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  Its fun // Most of the time easy to control // Clear and colourful graphics // Awesome music // 
 More stars once you finish // Level design is awesome.
  
  The Bad:
  
  Overrated // The camera is literally horibble // Underwater swimming sucks // Short story // Not 
 much story either // Collect all the stars with Mario, and you can be Luigi and do the whole thing 
 over again; who cares? // There are lots of better games released this year.
  
  
  
  What should've I expected? An ordinary "good" platformer? I don't think anyone expected a just 
 above average game with all this hype. And it's certainly not better than Twilight Princess, not 
 one moment of Super Mario Galaxy is better than Twilight Princess. I expected a classic game. I 
 expected a "Game of the Year" game. Stuff that. Ratchet and Clank games are better. Syphon Filter 
 Logans Shadow is better. I could go on and on with better games that came out this year. Its just 
 as good as Pursuit Force: Extreme Justice. Super Mario Galaxy is simply not as good as many other 
 games.
  
  Despite all this negative stuff, I still reckon it's one of the best Wii games yet. It still has 
 its fair share of problems, you have to admit. FIrst up is the camera. The camera is pure crap. 
 Alot of times you cant control Mario properly, and end up losing a life, There is also a few glitches 
 where you cant see at all and just the ground. You can't even center the camera 9/10 times. Its 
 a shame, because its really quite annoying sometimes, you'll probably have to end up suiciding 
 because youre stuck, because of the camera. 
  
  The second major problem is swimming. Its quite bad as well. When you have to get star chips to 
 make a launch star, the bad controls, combined with the bad camera make a visible star chip, hard 
 to get.
  
  Everything else is really good. The game is set out well, though if you aimed to finish it as quickly 
 as you can, you could probably do that in 5-10 hours. But you can collect the rest of the stars 
 in the game after. 
  
  The best aspects of Super Mario Galaxy are probably the music, level design and graphics. The music 
 is brilliant and very catchy. There is many different tunes so you won't be listening to the same 
 over and over again. The level design is just as good, and probably the most clever I've seen. 
 Its amazing to think how the makers thought of what to do next. And finally, the graphics are crisp, 
 clear, and colourful.
  
  
  GAMEPLAY: 8
  
  This is a very hard rating. The controls are fine. The camera is crap, and the level design is 
 awesome. It comes out as a 8, because of camera, glitches and occassional control problems.
  
  GRAPHICS: 9
  
  The Graphics are fantastic, the water especially looks amazing in places. 
 Shame it's not that fun to swim in.
  
  SOUND: 10
  
  The music is different for every galaxy, and they're not crappy little techno tunes either. 
 
  
  VALUE: 8
  
  The story is fairly short, but most people should want to get 120 stars. I dont know whay you would 
 want to repeat everything just to be Luigi though. Different jumping and running style? meh.
  
  OVERALL: 9.0
  
  Its no Zelda, but if you have a Wii, you should have this game. Just dont 
 expect the galaxy. Get it? lol?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordmaster3823
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  i have played every 'proper' mario game and after playing galaxy it wasn't hard to see that this 
 is the best game of the best game franchise. the game has the same story every mario game: Bowser 
 has kidnapped the princess and mario needs to save her. the diffrence that it's much more cinamatic 
 then before which gives it a bonus to the paper thin story. now to the real candy of the game: 
 the gameplay, in sunshine the game was designed to use the water gun in platforming so mario's 
 great controls were lowered in standerd which really sucked but not here in galaxy mario moves 
 so smoothly i couldn't believe it and the wii speific controls are fantastic like the star dust 
 pointer which takes the star dust which is helpful, the wii shaking motions work great and at the 
 end this one good controled game which is important and even more important at a game with such 
 great and internsting. you just never seen such origenals worlds my favorite being the light and 
 dark world. now the graphics are the best on the wii and it really does look like a PS3 game and 
 with the beautiful art design just makes it a perfect game.
  so here it is this is the greatest game of the year and deserves every GOTY award it won and it 
 is my personal GOTY of 2007 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fer212007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  WHAO I WAS EXPECTING ANOTHER MARIO SUNSHINE BUT WHE I START TO PLAY THE GAME I WAS REALLY SURPRISED 
 BUT ANIWAY
  HERE IS MY REVIEW
  
  1-GRAPHICS=I WAS REALLY SURPRISED IN THIS PART BECAUSE THE ART STYLE OF THE GAME IS SO AMAZING 
 THAT THE TECHNICAL PART
  LOOKS PERFECT IS THE BEST WII GAME IN GRAPHICS
  
  2-SOUND=MARIO SONGS ARE BRILLIANT BUT VOICE COULD HELP THE GAME
  
  3-GAMEPLAY=THE ORIGINALITY 
 IS AMAZING A LOT OF PUZZLE ALOT OF COSTUMES AND DIFFERENTS TECHNICS GREAT WII MOTION SENSITIVES 
 CONTROL REALLY MAKE A REVOLLUTIONARY GAME
  
  4-FUN FACTOR=AMAZING THE GAME IS IMPRESIVE BALANCED
  MAKING IT A CANDIDATE TO GAME OF THE YEAR
 
  
  5-STORY-THE SAME AS EVER BUT I LIKE TO SAVE PEACH BECAUSE OF THE GIANT ADVENTURE THET MARIO IS 
 GONA HAVE
  
  PROSS=AMAZING FUN AND ORIGINAL IMPRESIVE GRAPHICS 
  REVOLUTIONARY CONTROLGREAT SOUNTRACK
  VERY LONG GAME GREAT BOSS BATTLES
  
  CONS=STORY IS 
 TO TRADITIONAL
  ?WHY MARIO CANNOT TALK WITH VOICE? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vexx88
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Mario is a common name for Video Game fans. He was probably one of the first characters that a 
 person has seen when they first played a video game but lately it seems as though he hasn't had 
 a legit game but then Galaxy came out.
  
  Gameplay- Running Jumping and other acrobatic moves accompany Mario in his newest 3-d Adventures. 
 Many stages are in the world with 120 stars to collect. The story is the same as always. Peach 
 gives Mario a letter to go do something fun at the castle when bowser attacks and captures her 
 and it is Mario's duty to rescue her as always. This time around though you must got to different 
 planets to stop Bowser from taking over the universe. The new camera perspective of being on many 
 different planets is kind of annoying at first for the fact that sometimes you are upside down 
 with shifting gravity everywhere but, once you get that down it is extremely fun. It makes good 
 use of the Wii remote with a slight swing of the Wii remote you can do Mario's new "Spin Attack" 
 move which is acquired at the beginning of the game that which dazes opponents. The Wii pointer 
 allows you to shoot star bits at enemies to daze opponents. 
  
  The Graphics of Galaxy really push Wii's graphical capabilities. Water, space, and even Mario look 
 smooth and crisp. I would even say it is Metroid Prime Worthy.
  
  The Soundtrack will be a blast from the past for some fans with some of the minigames and stages 
 are the original or remixes of pervious songs. The Newer music in the game feels and sounds like 
 a Mario game end to end.
  
  Overall if you own a Wii this is another must have along with The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess.
 
  
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MidNiteX
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up on its release date. Honestly, I didn't play it much until very recently. 
 The gameplay is excellent and not hard at all. I've heard some people complain about the gameplay. 
 They say that it's too hard and boring. I don't agree with that at all. Others also complain about 
 the graphics... it's a Wii not a 360. The music was cool. Ummz.. overall it was a fun game. Honestly, 
 though, it wasn't the best Mario game ever. Don't get me wrong, I liked this game but I'd pick 
 an old school Mario game over this any day.
  
  Btw. Yes this is a short review. Wow. Now I'm just trying to reach 800 characterz. I'm sorry. I 
 like getting to the point. Why BS, right? I mean.. Mario pwnz. Maybe I should check if I've written 
 enough now. Wow, I guess not. Damn it. Oh yea. Luigi's voice= Epic. I wish Hannah Montana played 
 a small role in this game. She coulda been a koopa or something. Why not, right? I think it was 
 rude on Nintendo's part to exclude her. Yes, I've made spelling errors. And? Idc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CraZySeahorSe
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  It's ridiculous! All sorts of planets in all sorts of galaxies, being constantly rocketed around 
 the galaxies fighting the typical Mario enemies. It's amazing, it's so innovative in it's design 
 that i honestly thought nothing like this would ever be able to happen in a game. SO much fun. 
 Galaxy amazed me more and more with each level i played, and each star i captured. You must play 
 it to believe it.
  Graphics
  Best on Wii. Amazing colors and lights, fantastic explosions, flashes, etc. Textures are a little, 
 tiny bit sketchy, but it's all together the best graphics on Wii so far. The Hollywood chip (IBM) 
 really shows off in this game.
  Sound
  Fantastic sounds, the typical Mario sounds, everything you've expected. Also, the addition of some 
 VO's make the game even more interesting. 
  Value
  Although it's simply just a 1-player game, (2 can play but it's really just 1 player) it is so 
 long and inviting that you'll keep coming back for more. There are so many fun areas in galaxies 
 that you'll probably keep coming back after you've collected all 120. It lasts a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baller10dw
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is just another amazing super mario game. I haven't finished it yet, but so far, one 
 of the best mario games out there. I won't say it's the best, because I'm a huge fan of super mario 
 64. But this one is just flat-out amazing. 
  
  The point of the game is that Peach gets captured (like always) by bowser and Mario is trying to 
 get to bowser to get peach and has to save her by going through all these different Galaxys and 
 getting stars until he gets to bowser. Along the way in your mission you can use launch stars that 
 will get you to places that you can't go to, you will find little things called star bits that 
 will by attacking your enemie and feeding other stars, and you'll find things like bigger pirahnas 
 or big robot looking things that are sort of like fighting a bowser. There is a lot to the game, 
 but pretty easy if you get the hang of it.
  
  If you have ever played Super Mario 64, the point of the game is a lot like that. like that. The 
 game gets tough for the more advanced gamers but there are easy parts too for the not-so-advanced 
 gamers. Everything to this game is awesome. The galaxys are really fun. The graphics are outstanding. 
 It also has a nice use of the Wii mote. The controlls are sweet. 
  
  If you have the Wii, you totally should get this game. You won't be dissappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkspineslayer
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  at the launch of the nintendo 64. nintendo brought to us one of marios greatest achevements, super 
 mario 64 single handledly pioneered the 3-D platformer. people are still playing this game today 
 (or is it just me) trying to find every star and secret. 
  
  then the next generation came, we saw the relece of the gamecube, however overshadowed it was by 
 the playstation and X-box, it had its fair share of gems... the sequal to super mario 64 saw vastly 
 improved grafics and an island setting, however it also saw one of the most clunky and hated charecters 
 in the mario univerce (or again, is that just me?) fludd compleatly changed the game, and not for 
 the better.
  
  ... and then the Wii came...
  
  aproximately around the wiis first birthday, the true sucsessor to super mario 64 came to us, and 
 it brought mario to the far reaches of the univerce, going boldly to were no plumber has gone before... space.
 
  
  although Super mario galaxy lacks in story, it more than makes up for it with 
  sheer variaty and sheer greatness, everything from the level design to the music itself just screams 
 great! 
  
  to top it off, there is a reasonalble amount of fan service within the game. toy time galaxy offers 
 a remix of the super mario bros. theame tune, sweet sweet galaxy is acomponied by the tune from 
 super mario bros 3, imformaly known as "jump, jump, jump!" right down to one of the hardest levels 
 in the game being modeled after an 8-bit luigi!
  
  some of the downfalls of the game are the clunky suits, hard to use and barely needed, and the 
 sometimes random difficulty level. in one level you could be raceing an incredibly slow boo, then 
 the lext star of the same level has you taking down one of the hardest bosses in the game (with 
 one bar of health should it be with a daredevil comet orbiting the level) 
  
  prankster comets are random occurances that change the rules of the way a level works and offers 
 an extra star each comet with every compleated (and usualy difficult) chalenges.
  
  
  my rundown in short
  
  story: 3.0/10
  
  gameplay: 9.5
  
  music: 10
  
  level design: 
 10
  
  controls: 10
  
  overall: 10 out of ten
  
  
  you may have reilised by now that i only review games worthy of my 10... :p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spyro4President
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  This game is an incredible game for the whole family. Although it does fully implement the Wii 
 Remote like most other Wii games, it does what a Mario game is supposed to do, exceed all expectations!
 
  
  The graphics are probably some of the best on the Wii so far and the undeniable charm just draws 
 you in to a point where you can't stop playing the game. It is so colorful, it's probably the most 
 colorful game on the market right now.
  
  As for the sound effects, they sound great! I'll admit, the music WILL get old and repetitive at 
 times, but every Mario game has somewhat repetitive music in it. The sounds that it makes when 
 you smash a Goomba, pick up a star, activate a switch, etc. sound good and just add to the experience, 
 the sound is as colorful as the game.
  
  The ups: Great graphics - Good sound effects - Very colorful - Works with the whole family - Never 
 glitches - Really good looking characters.
  
  The downs: Repetitive music - Boss battles are too easy - Doesn't last forever.
  
  If you have 
 a Wii, get this game, if you don't have a Wii, buy the Wii for this game and if you don't want 
 a Wii, this game will make you change your mind, this game is ground breaking! It's a 10/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IamaFreakygamer
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  ... Basically you have to get this game! It's the best game but I wouldent say its perfect because 
 no game can be perfect! 
  
  I would rate this game 9.8 because it could be longer or they could of put minigames in there! 
 But this game is truly amazing!
  
  GOOD THINGS :)
  
  Amazing graphics and beautiful music,
  Has a Great but very, very sad story which you have to 
 unlock the chapters,
  Crafty bosses and funny characters!
  
  BAD THINGS : (
  
  ... Well theres not much to say about the bad things in this game,
  NINTENDO wrote that this game 
 is very long but to me it could be longer and also that ive read that this game could be very hard 
 for some people but to me it it could be harder!
  
  But what ever anyone says you have to get this amazing game.... TY for reding my reveiw!... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithy92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 2:29 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy for the Wii
  
  When Mario is invited to Peach's castle at the star festival things get messed up again and someone 
 steals the whole castle so Mario end up in cosmos. There he makes himself familiar with a princess 
 called Rosalina and Mario starts collecting stars again in order to give the power back to Rosalina's 
 space station.
  
  Mario galaxy brings back classic elements such as the suits and the classic moves. The suits are 
 original and ads variation to the game. Although the suits are used way to little. There are 7 
 different suits such as boo Mario, rainbow Mario or the classic fiery Mario.
  
  Gravity. Gravity is what makes this game original and unique. It's really cool and well thought-out. 
 I spent much of my time playing with gravity-pulls.
  The graphics are wonderful and Galaxy really shows that the Wii have some power after all. The 
 camera angles can be a pain sometimes, but it's mostly on a certain underground lake. So Mario 
 sunshine still have the best camera control of all the three 3D-Mario games.
  
  There's also neat features that appears throughout the game and the story is original. Once you 
 collect all 120 stars you won't just get Yoshi on a roof, You will get something much better. That 
 thing makes your second play-through more fun and tempting. Along with all the new stuff they added 
 to this game, they also put a co-op mode in but it doesn't really adapt anything special to the 
 game itself since the second player can only collect star bits, stun some enemies, shoot star bits 
 and "help" with the jumping. 
  -The co-op mode is good for beginners and hard bosses later in the game.
  -A more developed multiplayer 
 mode would've been great! 
  -Oh and the soundtrack is really great , the orchestrated music ads a lot of feeling!
  
  Real 
 score: 9.6
  
  
  //Anything wrong? Contact me, Smithy92
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2008 2:31 am PT
Review:  The Good: Bright, colorful graphics, revolutionary game play ideas, charming music, tons of galaxies 
 to explore
  
  The Bad: Occasional frustrating platforming segments, ho-hum co-op mode, uninteresting story, not 
 enough "Wiiness"
  
  SMG disappointed me a little and YES it did. It just didn't have enough... Wiiness if that makes 
 any sense. While there are wonderful ideas and elements in the game SMG is nothing original. The 
 game has you flying across planetoids and what not to save Princess Peach from Bowser once again. 
 With the addition of collecting star bits by using the cursor of the Wiimote and using them to 
 stun enemies and feed Lumas, this is just one of many elements that makes SMG great. You can flick 
 the Wiimote to make Mario spin, and the controls are very well thought out. It's not really the 
 controls or anything that makes SMG unique but it's the style of the game. For example there is 
 a galaxy where you'll have fruit planetoids and you need to smash wood plugs to make a worm come 
 out of the apple planetoids to cross to the next. With this coupled with bright colorful (and actually 
 somewhat next-gen) graphics it's total eye candy (for the Wii anyways) . The game also sports charming 
 and wonderful music. What also makes the game unique is how you explore the levels. The game uses 
 gravity tricks a lot such as switching gravity on you at certain points, using gravity spotlights, 
 being able to walk around a planetoid instead of falling off etc. You can also change into Bee 
 Mario, which lets you fly and cling to walls, there's Fire Mario, Rainbow Mario, Ice Mario etc. 
 All these things are just so cleverly crafted together and it gives you that warm fuzzy feeling 
 inside. There's no way to express how cool this all is unless you just play the game. While this 
 is good and all it does have it's flaws. There are occasional frustrating platforming segments 
 that have to much action going on, or things move to fast for you to figure out what to do. While 
 the game does sport a co-op mode it's nothing really special or interesting. The story is the same 
 as every other Mario game and has a confusing and disappointing ending etc. The only people who 
 don't see this are the Nintendo fan boys and die hard Mario fans. I wouldn't consider this a winner 
 for GotY but definitely for best Wii game of the year. If you have a Wii please pick this up and 
 if you don't then this is a good enough of a reason to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robliander
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2008 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is THE killer game for the Wii. 
  
  The story is what you would expect: Princess Peach is kidnapped by Bowzer and Mario has to jump, 
 dodge, and blast his way through levels to save her. The levels are actually 3D "worlds" that Mario 
 gets blasted to by a team of curiously aloof stars.
  
  The first worlds you encounter prime you for the rest of the game perfectly: you learn how to navigate 
 Mario, judge his jumping so you land on the Koopas just right, and really get used to the gravity 
 component that's crucial to the game play. 
  
  By the third world you're conquering, you've probably become one with the Wii controller and thinking 
 in terms of the 3D environment Nintendo has crafted. This adds to the game play because you'll 
 be totally focused on solving a puzzle or devising a strategy to defeat a foe rather than wrestling 
 with the controls or wondering about the constraints put on you by the game. 
  
  There's probably more than a 100 hours of gameplay in this title, because even if you defeat a 
 world, you have an opportunity to return to the world and beat it under special circumstances (such 
 as in a timed-mode, or having only one life bar available) or with the world altered in an interesting 
 way. 
  
  Nintendo has outdone itself with this title.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: anths1987
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Platformers are an interesting genre. From my own perception, they have become the single most 
 form of entertainment i have ever experienced when compared to any other types of games. In fact, 
 this is the genre that has initiated me to become a gamer to this very day, and that started 12 
 yrs ago. 
  
  Flashing back to my grade school years, the first time i have ever seen a video gaming machine, 
 was the orginial Atari, nintendo, and that good old game boy. Ironically enough, my first game 
 i have ever played was, in fact, a mario game, and that was Super Mario Land : Six Golden Coins, 
 for the orginial gameboy. Every since i have played that game, i became hooked to the genre known 
 as: platformers. 
  
  As the years when by, i played MOST of the awesome platformers that i have come to love. Great 
 games, such as Banjo Kazooie, Banjo Tooie, Donkey Kong 64, Lengend of Zelda: Orcania of Time, and 
 so many others. 
  
  But of course, the one that caugt my attention was good old mario, and that was Super Mario 64. 
 Once again my inner child was reborn, and thankfully, i loved every second of that game, and still 
 do. 
  
  However, as i became much older, so did my taste for games. And as sadly as it may seem, i became 
 detached from mario, and he became more of a distant memory, that started my gaming career. 
  
  But most recently, when i found out about Super Mario Galaxy, i knew that i couldn't let my 
 old "buddy" down. So, i played, and i played, and played....
  
  And when i finished, i cried, i cheered, and i PLAYED again...
  
  Simply put, Super Mario Galaxy 
 has done me a favor, it has brought me back to my old roots, so that i could experience mario once 
 again, like i used to when i first experienced games, and add some......... A LOT OF IT. 
  
  If this game, and genre that started my career in gaming can make me believe anything is possible 
 with mario, than anything will be. 
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is a gaming revolution.... Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Punl5her
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Mario has been around for quite a while now. Game after game released every year. Some games not 
 so good, some good. Well finally, Nintendo stopped and decided that it was time to make a masterpiece.
 
  
  GAME PLAY
  ----------------
  Controls are near perfection. Everything feels smooth as silk and no control problems get in your 
 way. Everything is innovative. I honestly have no favorite level, or galaxy, in the entire game. 
 Every level's design is carefully thought out and quite ingenious. You will never be disappointed. 
 There is a replay value that Nintendo put in there by adding a bonus secret that can be unlocked 
 by finding all 120 stars. Good idea by Nintendo.
  
  GRAPHICS
  ----------------
  Graphics are not everything, game play is, but they sure help. The work they put into this game 
 is phenomenal. They made sure every part of the game is colorful, dreamlike, and pleasing to the 
 eye. Nintendo did great with the graphics.
  
  SOUND
  ------------
  The music is great. The songs match the area perfectly. The wrong song can definitely make an area 
 completely different. Sound effects are very good, too. There is no voices, though. I guess Nintendo 
 did not want to take the risk.
  
  STORY LINE
  ------------------
  Nintendo did great with the story. It may be the same Bowser got Peach story, but they did a very 
 good job at making it seem that the stakes were WAYYYYY higher than just Bowser winning and keeping 
 Peach. The story won't make you feel like Nintendo just tried to make up an excuse for sending 
 Mario into space.
  
  Conclusion
  ------------------
  All in all, Super Mario Galaxy is THE BEST GAME FOR WII. And if you have a Wii you should already 
 have this game. definitely worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaptain_insano
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  me and my friend were talking one day and he says "oh dude have u heard of SMG?" i say, "no... i'll 
 chek it out." i go home and hop on gamespot to chek out the review.... i read up on it and bought 
 it. not expecting anything special i poped it into my wii.... i was prooved way wrong. I LOVE every 
 minuete i play this game. it is deep, immersive, and plain fun. there is a little bit for everyone; 
 whether u like puzzles or wether u like to beat the crap out of goombas, SMG is a must have. i 
 really couldn't find anything bad about this game.... i really couldn't. the only bad thing is sometimes 
 the camera angles are rather anoying.... but other than that.... this game is fanominal. if u have 
 a wii, SMG has gotta be on your game rack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MonkishGamer
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Definitely my favorite game of 2007, Super Mario Galaxy is indeed a perfect game. The story tells 
 of Mushroom Kingdom's every 100 year tradition of celebrating a comet passing by, however this 
 time, Bowser crashes the party and not only kidnaps Peach, but the entire castle. He promises to 
 create his own galaxy with Peach by his side. Mario is soon teleported to a space station with 
 Rosalina and her many stars, who promise to take Mario to her after he collects enough stars to 
 propel them there. This game is by far the best looking Wii game I've ever seen, not inducing realism, 
 but beaut-ism. The environments are colorful and gorgeous, just making you stand in awe of the 
 beauty. Mario this time has a sleigh-full of tricks up his sleeve, sorry for the Christmas reference, 
 I miss it. He has several powerups, including Bee Mario, Spring Mario, Ghost Mario, Rainbow Mario, 
 and much more. Even Luigi makes an appearance! An annoying, troublesome appearance, several times 
 getting lost and needing rescue. THese all come in handy in different situations, and are well 
 utilized scattered throughout the game. WHenever going to different worlds, you go to a different 
 room-terrace, kitchen, etc. These will act as a gateway to different worlds. Whenever you get more 
 stars, you get more worlds. After you get so many, you take on a mini-boss in the form of Bowser 
 or Bowser Jr. After you collect 60 stars, you go after Peach. The boss battles are epic, once again 
 utilizing different techniques. This all leads up to Bowser, whose boss battle was pretty easy, 
 but so was Ganondorf in Twilight Princess. Anyway, I love this game, and any Wii Fan should as 
 well. If you like Mario, it goes without saying this is the game for you. However, if you don't 
 like Mario, what's wrong with you? This is a must-have Wii title, and is a gaming masterpiece.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColdRoses
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2008 4:39 am PT
Review:  The absolute best game to appear on a Nintendo platform for a very long time... Not a minute goes 
 past when your not seeing something different and completely innovative while still feeling that 
 fuzzy nostalgia that only Nintendo seem to be able stir up i you.
  The Gamecube was unfortunately filled with the weakest versions of all Nintendo's classic franchises 
 including Mario but this puts it all back to rights. 
  With this, Twilight Princess and Metroid Prime 3: Corruption it looks like the Wii is gonna play 
 host to the greatest versions of there classic franchises... Next stop Mario Kart Wii... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justinmolnar
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2008 10:04 pm PT
Review:  This Mario game is great i play it every day . The graphics and gameplay are amazing and the Wii 
 controls ROCK!!!! I think it is cool how nintendo uses the Wii controls in this game, and the graphics 
 are really good as well. Story line in this game is really cool and one of the better story lines 
 out of all the other story lines in Mario past times. I really suggest this game to any type of 
 gamer and hope that you enjoy this as much as i do. Make sure if you get this game you have some 
 time to waste do to the fact that it is very addictive and makes you want to play all day long. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow9669
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  i played this game after my freand got it for christmas and amazing im going to buy myself a Wii 
 just to have this gamehope i can get one soon its just different then most games you see on store 
 shelves thease days just sticks out like a sore thumb. 10/10 in my book and a must buy if you have 
 a wii or planing to buy a wii and looking for a game to be the first game you play on that new 
 Wii.
  
  so there you have it a game that all wii owner should buy and when wil i get to the 100 word min 
 on this review i hope there is super Mario galaxy 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Tish-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  When the fifth generation stormed into full swing, no other game grasped the feel of the exciting 
 new 3-D era the way Super Mario 64 did. It really shot-put itself into the history books with a 
 deeply moving adventure filled with breathtaking worlds that you could instantly lose yourself 
 in. Thankfully, Super Mario Galaxy rekindles much of the firepower conducted from the plumber's 
 Nintendo 64 debut. While Mario 64's impact remains stapled shut without a transcending pupil, Nintendo 
 simply couldn't have done much more for Mario Galaxy's sake to make it any better, making it the 
 best title available for the Wii.
  
  If you don't already know the story, you could probably take a well-educated guess and hit the 
 nail on the head. Peach's security force compiled of Toad clones fails to thwart Bowser's plans 
 yet again. This time, the King of Koopas kidnaps the entire castle and sends it into orbit. Kudos 
 to him for mixing things up, seeing as how nothing else seems to work in his favor. Mario ends 
 up in orbit as well, cast aside, and dangling to a small, nearby planet full of small cottontails 
 begging to play with him. Here you'll begin your training session to acquaint yourself with the 
 extraordinary control formula. You'll also be greeted by your soon-to-be companions known as Lumas, 
 seemingly helium-filled creatures that are also looking to stop Bowser. Their queen, Rosalina, 
 provides a basic ground area with all kinds of rooms where you'll return every time you acquire 
 a star. Think the castle in Super Mario 64, or Isle Delfino in Mario Sunshine. Getting used to 
 the controls is pretty awkward at first, but once the tutorial gives way, you'll immediately notice 
 some very unique abilities, as well as some familiar moves from past installments.
  
  Mario is reacquainted with his lineup of jumps, ranging from the triple jump to the wall jump, 
 as well as one, yet very significant new ability, which has you shaking the Wii remote to manufacture 
 a spin move. In total, there's nothing extremely daunting about the control scheme, but you'll 
 still come across some galaxies that require the use of the Wii remote in bizarre (and sometimes 
 difficult) ways. Some individual galaxies may have you roll through a course on a ball using the 
 Wii remote in a vertical formation, and weaving from side-to-side causes the ball to move left 
 and right. Some will have you use the on-screen pointer -- Showcased by simply pointing the Wii remote 
 at the sensor bar -- To grasp "pull stars", little purple objects in orbit that you can attach yourself 
 to, and occasionally you'll have to traverse dozens to reach your objective. There's no doubt that 
 you'll come across a wide range of galaxies that'll put the Wii's motion sensitivity -- And you, 
 for that matter -- To the test, but as stated earlier, the controls are pretty self-presented and 
 easy to acclimate to. Even if you're not totally convinced that the game won't just throw all kinds 
 of motion-sensitive knuckle balls at you, the first portion of play-through is almost so easy, 
 you'll want to keep playing until you reach the harder galaxies. On the other hand, if you want 
 to feel the pressure and difficulty right off the bat, you might like to hear that Mario's life 
 meter has only three bars. Three hits in a row and it's a life less on your screen.
  
  The galaxies themselves aspire to great variation, where you'll notice illustrious similarities 
 with games like Mario Sunshine and Mario 64. First off, they basically incorporate the same proportions 
 as the painting levels in Mario 64, and they also feed off the same principle: You'll gather a 
 certain amount of stars in each galaxy until it's entirely completed. Secondly, most galaxies range 
 in great size, but it's pretty tough to get lost, even if you make an attempt at it. Most of the 
 game is very linear and subjective to simple, yet enjoyable gimmicks that ultimately feel relaxing, 
 which is great because build up for the more difficult levels ahead isn't frustrating or stressful. 
 Each galaxy is different from the other: One might be wind and sky-oriented, one my be filled with 
 meaningless junk, one may include the elements ice and fire together, while another could sum up 
 to a haunted mansion theme. Mario 64 and Mario Sunshine players will feel right at home with the 
 galaxy foundations, and those that aren't familiar with the series will still find the worlds wholly 
 enjoyable.
  
  Mario will also be able to take different forms in certain galaxies. In one galaxy he can become 
 a bee and fly for a short time. The haunted galaxy allows Mario to become a ghost, where he can 
 filter through some walls. There's also an ice ability, where you can skate on freezing water, 
 and wall jump up water falls, as well as the fire ability, where Mario simply throws fireballs. 
 In any case, a lot of the time you'll rely on your environment for particular procedures. In order 
 to reach another planet, you can use launch stars, which require a simple shake of the Wii remote, 
 grassy stalks sprouted from piranha plants, which, again, require a flick of the remote, or you 
 can use large flowers that glide in the wind.
  
  Gravity takes a huge role in Super Mario Galaxy. It's so big, that the game itself would be just 
 as unique without the Wii remote and its motion-sensitivity characteristics. Nearly every planet 
 in a galaxy can be expedited through up and down and left and right. Being in an upside-down circumstance 
 isn't nearly as confusing as it sounds, and even some of the more advanced situations are more 
 of a pleasure than a bother. At a few points, you'll come across double gravity (which, believe 
 me, is quite difficult to explain in words) , where the ceiling and floor are both magnetized to 
 a certain direction, and you'll be pulled into that direction immediately, even when transitioning 
 from top to bottom.
  
  The game gets over pretty quickly, as you need only 60 stars to challenge the final Bowser, but 
 the short time frame is made up for quite well. The game consists of 120 stars, and with many of 
 them being "hidden", you can count on hours of star-searching even after you complete the campaign. 
 On top of that, there's a pretty cool aspect at the end of the game that may have you replay through 
 it all over again.
  
  In a nutshell, everything comes together impressively. The galaxies, creatures you'll encounter, 
 boss battles, and entire atmospheric presentation forges the greatest installment to the Mario 
 series since the Nintendo 64's debut. Even though you'll see all kinds of similarities with Mario 
 64 and Mario Sunshine, there are so many unique attributes to the game that make it feel fresh 
 and invigorating. Graphically, no other Wii game comes close to Mario Galaxy's artistic design. 
 The huge worlds and seamless backgrounds create a compelling and visually stunning universe that 
 makes you want to explore and find out what secrets lay within them. Even the audio category sets 
 the bar for future Wii games to come, using both the console's speaker input as well as the Wii 
 remote's, which definitely calls for an unparallel experience. It may not be the greatest game 
 this generation, but the overall feel of the presentation will please people of all ages. All in 
 all, the hand-me-downs from Super Mario 64 and generations before it complement Super Mario Galaxy 
 as the Wii's most invigorating game available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bananaoriley
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best Mario game I have ever played. Using a lot of the fun points from previous 
 games because it is always fun to triple jump or side jump and wall jump, just to name a few, but 
 using those Mario skills in this game give it all an entirely new meaning!!! 2 thumbs way up as 
 this really does take the cake for games on the Wii!!!!!!! Awesome work Nintendo! I really cannot 
 wait to see what they come up with for their next game, oh wait that is right along some anticipated 
 lines of Super Smash Brothers!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PuR3SkiLLZ3525
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  This game's storyline is the same as always- Princess Peach is captured by Bowser and you have 
 to save her (again) . Similar to Super Mario 64, there are stars to collect. In this game , there 
 is a total of 121 stars (1 special star at the end) . 
  You start off in a festival, where every 100 years, the special comet/asteroid thing passes by. 
 This turns out to be a spaceship. After Peach is captured, you board the spaceship. On the spaceship, 
 there are rooms, but certain rooms can only be unlocked by beating Bowser or Bowser Jr. in a boss-fight 
 at the end of each room. There is the Observatory, the Fountain, the Kitchen, the Bedroom, the 
 Gate (which only has 2 stars, the first is the tutorial level in the game, the second, done later 
 on in the game, unlocks the ability to fly upon finding a red star) , and lastly the Garden, right 
 up at the top.
  The game is easy at the start for younger players, but after you get past 70 stars (if going for 
 completion) , then it gets tougher.
  To unlock the final special level ***SPOILER*** , you must get 120 stars as Mario, then play through 
 the whole game again as Luigi. After getting 120 with Luigi (basically 240 stars altogether) , then 
 you unlock the very first part of the game as a level- the Festival.
   
  This game has great graphics, 
 great music, brilliant gameplay, and it suits all players and levels of ability, whether you're 
 new, young, or hardcore gamers, it suits everone. Because the difficulty gets progressively harder, 
 you can't really rate it's difficulty.
  There is little voice acting in the conversations, but at least there is some. But overdoing it 
 would become annoying with Mario's accent, so it's, in my opinion, better that way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Munchlax357
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  This game reminds me of the good old days with Super Mario 64. You run around and collect stars, 
 visit different worlds, and fight Bowser. This game is worth buying. There are over 100 stars and 
 over 10 galaxys. The graphics are great too. This isn't like Super Mario Sunshine at all, so dont 
 worry, you wont be dissapointed. Some galaxys might be annoying, but there are also some really 
 fun ones. If you dont have a wii, I suggest you get one, then get this and then get Super Smash 
 Bros Brawl later on. I now know why this game got Game of the Year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmuneon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 6:05 am PT
Review:  Nintendo has definitely done well with Mario games for the Wii. While I haven't played all of the 
 them, I have played Super Paper Mario and of course Galaxy. Super Mario Galaxy is not just a well 
 made game, it is a game that has managed to creatively include aspects from some of the original 
 Mario games to give you a nostalgic feeling while playing a brand new game.
  
  Galaxy's graphics are great, considering that the Wii is not famous for its fantastic graphics. 
 The controls are pretty simple, however, I do have to say that it is a bit hard to control things 
 such as the ray surfing and the ball rolling, but you can get the hang of it after a while. One 
 of the key things that brings back the memories of the original Mario games is that of the music. 
 The music in certain levels immediately conjures images of Super Mario World 1, 2, and 3. It is 
 included in quite cute and creative ways, such as the musical notes you have to follow for the 
 extra life in some of the early levels.
  
  All in all, I would be repeating many of the other reviews if I went on to much, but Super Mario 
 Galaxy is a wonderful game that is most definitely worth the money spent. I could (and do) spend 
 hours at a time playing this game and never get tired of it. Even after beating the game, it is 
 just fun to go back and play again and see what little things you missed, how many star bits you 
 can get, and new ways of handling enemies.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 16bitmaster
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2008 3:28 am PT
Review:  cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkRiley13
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Super mario galaxy for the wii is the best mario that has been made over time. It's also related 
 to the super mario 64. THIS GAME IS SO AWESOME IN MANY TYPES OF WAYS. The graphics are beautiful 
 and colorful while you play this game. There are multiple galaxies with tons of stars to collect. However 
 don't consider this game easy cuz there are comets that could hit the planets. The comets are rare 
 to find and if u come near one u must do it immediately. No joke. When ur have way through the game 
 u will find luigi. He will help u gather up up the stars. U will really enjoy this game but it 
 take a while to finish it. U will see bowser at least 5 times i think. Bye. Haaaave aaaaaaaa goooooooooooooooooooood 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIOShazard
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  This is a really good game, but if there is a possible sequel, I might or might not buy it.
  Gameplay: A very addictive game, but sometimes gives me headaches from certain star quests. I also 
 liked how the position of the camera was able to change when you walked on a certain side of a 
 planet. otherwise, a very good game. 9.9/10
  soundtrack: with the changing soundtrack when you put on a new suit, or when you go to a new world, 
 It added to my headache, which is a good thing, since if I get a headache, it means the game is 
 good. 9.5/10
  Baddies: kind of repetitive, and didn't add to headache. As always, its Bowser steals Princess, 
 and Mario has to kill walking mushrooms and turtles with colored shells. some new enemies, such 
 as Pirhana Plants, Dino Pirhana, topmen... some original and new, some old and out-dated, I give 
 this section an 8.5/10
  graphics: this game, for a normal Nintendo game, has very good graphics, and very unique backgrounds. 
 I give this, a... *drumroll* 9/10 
  overall: this game has its ups and downs like a rollercoaster, but the kind of rollercoaster that 
 has you riding it 10 times in 5 minutes, and hurling once. I give this game a 9.5/10 after doing 
 awesome math.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6h05tly
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Space: an endless world of infinite routes; new worlds never visited; new beings never discovered; 
 new possibilities for evil to make their own universe. Bowser and his minions are up to no good 
 yet again as not only did he kidnapped Princess Peach (that was of course predictable) but is also 
 going to create his own universe! Mario is yet again in an epic adventure where he must go from 
 planet to planet to work his way in saving not only Peach, but the universe itself from the hands 
 of Bowser, The Koopa King.
  
  Level Design
  Ever since I saw the first videos of Galaxy, I said to myself, "This seems promising. A new way 
 to play a 3-D platformer." And when I got the game, I was like "wow" which came to all of us Mario 
 fans when we started playing this game. Rather than playing in an open field like the previous 
 3D Marios, you go from planet to planet where the objectives in each of them become crazy since 
 you can now move Mario on that planet by going above and below, side to side, and immerse yourself 
 on each of those planets. The game play stays true to the Mario formula, now that you can play 
 either open field or the classic side-scrolling style (depending on what planets you encounter 
 during the level you are on) . Even the water levels are interesting since they are planets themselves, 
 which means you can swim in orbits and this makes water levels from other Mario and other platform 
 games a thing of the past. There are some levels where they have you go upside down, right-side 
 up, and even sideways, depending on what the backgrounds indicate in levels with this mechanism. 
 There are also traps that bring innovation to the next level. For instance, there will be holes 
 (some of them blue or clear) that if you touch them you fall off it and land into a black hole 
 (which is where you lose your lives on) . I can say more about the game's unique level designs, 
 but this is just barely half of what I've described since I want you to see for yourself when you 
 rent or buy Galaxy.
  
  Game Play
  There isn't much with the Wii controls when you are exploring the planets as normal Mario since 
 you flick either the remote or the nunchuk to make him do a spin attack. Also as normal Mario you 
 can shoot Star Bits at an enemy or other targets when you move the cursor (in the shape of a blue 
 star) at it and pressing the B button. And just like the previous 3D Mario games, you can use moves 
 like Wall Jump, Somersault, Pound Ground, to name a few, when playing the game. You can also use 
 the wiimote to grab Star Bits if you can't reach them. Speaking of which, these Star bits can be 
 used to feed the hungry Star-beings called Lumas, which will help you advance to other planets, 
 give you challenges in those levels, and unlock new worlds for you to try out. Be sure to collect 
 as many Star Bits as you can. Anyway, you will acquire power-ups like the Bee Suit, Fire Flower, 
 and many others, which you can use the wiimote on each of them. (For example, when you flick the 
 wiimote when you are Fire Mario, you can shoot fire balls.) When you ride a stingray in water races, 
 you rotate the wii remote left and right to turn left or right. Tight rotations give you sharp 
 turns. The only problem I have with Galaxy is the camera. Nintendo should have improved the camera 
 controls when you explore the planets when going underneath them, but overall the game is incredible. 
 There are more innovative controls and other features (such as Co-op) I haven't mentioned in this 
 review, but I want you to see for yourself on the rest of them when you try Galaxy out.
  
  Graphics
  Despite the graphical power the Wii lacks from its competitors, Galaxy does indeed 
 look like a next-generation title. The animation is smooth, the polygon work is indeed impressive, 
 and the glossy finish on the characters, enemies, and levels definitely compare with games on the 
 Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3. Even Bowser looks cool, with his red hair flowing and glowing during 
 the cutscenes. This is by far the best looking 3D Bowser I have ever seen, and overall the best 
 looking 3D Mario game I have ever played.
  
  Music
  In most 3D Nintendo games, their games' music had that MIDI feel. But in Super Mario Galaxy the 
 game isn't in MIDI form. It is orchestrated and the music is just amazing. My favorite piece in 
 the entire game is the Battlerock Galaxy stage. (It is very moving. You have to play the game and 
 hear for yourself.) This is probably the best Mario music I have ever heard and by far one of the 
 best video game soundtracks I've ever heard, especially on a Wii game. Koji Kondo, keep up the 
 good work!!!
  
  Conclusion
  Super Mario Galaxy is just a game that redefined the 3D platformer. It is a game that Wii owners 
 have to own for its unique game play while the franchise stays true to its roots. Nintendo never 
 seizes to impress me with their games, and Galaxy is one of the reasons why the company giant is 
 so critically acclaimed. This is by far one of the most innovative games I've played, especially 
 on an innovative console like the Wii. Galaxy is the prime example of how to create a great platformer 
 and I hope that other developers use this game as an inspiration when they make games on the Wii. 
 To seek new worlds and civilizations, Mario will boldly go where no plumber as gone before.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: knilybrik
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy, a somewhat sequel to Super Mario 64, was a game everyone was waiting for. With 
 classic 3-D levels and new and fun anti-gravity levels. Galaxy has amazing graphics and beautifully 
 designed levels. Many Mario fans or Nintendo Wii owners already have this game but if you don't 
 have it, than I suggest you get it. The story is similar to most Mario games, Peach is kidnapped. 
 As you start you chase bunnies and then attempt rescuing the Grand Star. After that you meet an 
 unforgetable cast of characters. The levels are fun and the gameplay is smooth. One thing that 
 can get really annoying is the 100 purple coins you must collect to get a star at the end of the 
 game. Other things that are bad may be the camera on some of the galaxies. There are also some 
 fun sort-of levels like a ray surfing level and ball rolling level. There are many different levels 
 so you have fun until you get bored. The game is not to hard and not to easy and you'll find it 
 really fun. Overall it is one of the best games for the Wii and it got the 2007 best game of the 
 year award in gamespot! So give it a chance and you'll find it is really fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -P4R4D0X-
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2008 3:25 am PT
Review:  There isn't a single thing wrong with this game in my opinion. It delivers what everybody expected 
 of it and then some.
  
  The gameplay is brilliant, though at times (especially when you're just starting out) the fluctuating 
 gravity in some places can freak you out and make it very hard to focus, and sometimes enjoy yourself. 
 That said, most of the time that is what gives the game its challenge, otherwise the pure ease 
 of the game would make it impossible to enjoy. It is also part of what adds to the game's charm. 
 That and the Lumas (which are adorable) .
  
  Music and sound were equally brilliant, as were the visuals. Level design was great as well. Nothing 
 felt taped together, everything worked flawlessly in both idea and practice. The suits were a lot 
 of fun (with the exception of the spring suit which I HATE) .
  
  The inclusion of multiplayer is both a good and bad thing. I played a little with a friend of mine 
 and found that at times he saved my back while i was focused on other things, but on the reverse 
 side of that coin also seemed to get me into a bit of trouble with the way he loved making Mario 
 spin (I'm not entirely sure if it was just him being a jerk, easily entertained, or the novelty 
 of using a Wiimote for the first time) . I can see the merit it hold, and since its completely optional 
 and can be picked up and dropped at any time during play, it definately can't be seen as a downside.
 
  
  Basically, the game is just all round brilliant. No other word for it. Normally, I would say that 
 no matter what a game has, you can always improve on it. However, in the case of Super Mario Galaxy, 
 I am willing to make an exception. There is not one thing that I can see that can be improved. 
 Thus, I give it a 10. It will take Nintendo some incredible thinking to improve on this game, and 
 only the future will tell if they can pull it off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theoracleofgame
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 9:57 pm PT
Review:  OK, let's admit it, the Wii had an impressive claim. It's remote was innovative, and it had a good 
 launch game (Twilight Princess) . But after that, there was just a bunch of licensed crap. There 
 were a few good games, but none of them were good enough to make the Wii seriously considered by 
 traditional gamers. This is the game that gives the Wii status.
  
  This is your basic Mario plot. Peach invites to the castle at the Star Festival, but Bowser comes 
 in an airship fleet and steals her. Rosalina and the Lumas afterward help you to find Bowser, save 
 Peach, and stop whatever Bowser's up to. But that's just the plot.
  
  First off, Super Mario Galaxy has a great control scheme. Many gamers argued the Wii remote was 
 a fancy button that was less responsive. SMG is an exception in that argument, since the game is 
 so responsive to the remote that almost no movement goes unnoticed. The controls themselves feel 
 right at home as well. 
  
  Mario has always had awesome soundtracks, but this one goes through the roof. This game mixes the 
 traditional Mario soundtrack with a few modernized versions as well. There's good folly, and the 
 sounds that come from the remote sound fine.
  
  All of these great things are backed by the best Wii graphics yet. The environments and character 
 models are stellar and set a very high benchmark for the Wii.
  
  All of this stuff goes into jaw-dropping level design. These designs are cool to look at, but also 
 are devious when you have to finish the level. This is the aspect that makes SMG's gaming experience 
 so superb.
  
  To complete the game, you're going to travel to different galaxies, which have three normal stars, 
 one hidden star, and after time, comet stars.
  
  I should explain the comets. These basically take one level from the galaxy, and completely warp 
 it. It may make enemies faster, it may make you race an evil Mario clone, may only give one piece 
 of health, and so on.
  
  So when you put this together, you have the most amazing Wii game created, period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloudstrife145
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  At first I thought the game would really get me dizzy because of all the different camera angles, 
 but when you get used to it, it's a really FUN game! Well the story in the game is a bit different 
 from the other Mario platformers because this time it's in galaxies, where Bowser once again kidnaps 
 Princess Peach. Bowser then steals all the 'Power Stars' and 'Grand Stars' so that it can help 
 power up his machinery which he needs to conquer the every planet in every galaxy. But Mario will 
 have to stop Bowser from conquering the whole universe with the help of Rosalina, the Keeper of 
 the Comet Observatory and all the Lumas around the universe. In order for Mario to stop Bowser, 
 he must return all of the powers stars that bowser has stolen back to the Comet Observatory where 
 they can use the power stars to power up the Comet Observatory so that they can travel to the center 
 of the universe where Bowser's newly made galaxy is.
  
  Anyways, the gameplay of the game is somewhat unique in its own way but it's also very fun! So 
 the main objective of what Mario must do in each galaxy is to work his way up to collect the star 
 in which is guarded by a lot of obstacles or is prized upon you if a task is completed. Mario can't 
 progress through the game without his spinning move; his main move in which the player must use 
 throughout the whole game or else Mario's dead O_O. The spinning move can be used to stun/attack 
 enemies, break ice in which things such as star bits and launch stars are trapped in, and to use 
 objects. The really amazing part of the game is that it uses the Wii remote in various ways such 
 as rolling a ball to the end where a star is trapped inside it, ray surfing, and blowing a bubble. 
 Each of these types of fun ways of getting a star can be pretty hard to accomplish, that's why 
 patience is of the essence in these 3 types of games. Along the way to finding the stars around 
 the universe, Mario encounters special items that give him special powerups! These powerups are 
 also needed to progress when getting a star from a galaxy, so without powerups you may get stuck 
 in a level. The powerups that Mario uses in the game are the "Bee Mario", "Rainbow Mario", "Boo 
 Mario", "Ice Mario", "Fire Mario", and finally the "Spring Mario". All these powerups are very 
 fun to use because off all the different uses of each power up. I found the game to be really challenging 
 at some points and some points easy, making me give the difficulty of the game 'Just Right'. Even 
 though the difficulty was just right, I did wish the game was just a bit more harder, but either 
 way the game still kicks A**!
  
  The graphics of the game was really nice, it's some of the best graphics I have ever seen in any 
 Nintendo game ever. The game's very colorful and very clear, helping the player see everything 
 (whether it's very small or big) in the television. The movement of Mario and everything else is 
 awesomely smooth which is great, because some games' movements can be choppy! Though the cinematics' 
 graphics dont seem to be much better from the gameplay graphics, I still say the graphics should 
 recieve 10/10 ^_^
  
  The music of the game really goes along with whatever planet you are on, whether Mario's in an 
 icey galaxy, a burning galaxy, a peaceful galaxy or any type of galaxy, the music really blends 
 well with the environment of each galaxy. Although the music blends excellently with the environments, 
 some of the soundtracks arent too memorable but some are truly masterpieces in which you may want 
 to hear over and over again. :D
  
  Now the lengthiness of the game is pretty huge if you take time collecting all 120 (or was it 121) 
 stars. Although you don't need to collect all of the stars, the ultimate unlockable is really worth-it 
 if you DO get all the stars. The game's really long which makes the game really awesome! Plus, 
 you can re-play the game using Luigi at the end of the game if and only you collect all of the 
 stars in the game. :) Playing the game all over again wouldn't be so bad, since the game is so 
 fun. :D
  
  Overall, I believe this game is one of the BEST games of all time, no joke. With its awesome gameplay, 
 awesome graphics, awesome music, lengthy quests, and great story; this game should be bought by 
 everyone whether you're old or young, a Mario fan or not a Mario fan, this game should be  
 Too bad I can't give it an exact score because of the new scoring system (I don't like it) , but 
 actually I'd give this great game a 9.8/10 ^______________^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diflogeit
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  At first, I wasn't going to be this game because I thought that the game producers couldn't possibly 
 create another great game. Super Mario 64 was a spectacular game, as was Super Mario Sunshine. 
 I never thought in a million years that Nintendo could possibly make another game of such high 
 caliber. As I said before, I was drastically wrong.
  The game starts out as Mario receives an invitation to watch the meteor shower with Princess Peach. 
 Unfortunately for our red-clad plumber, Bowser has to spoil their evening together by destroying 
 half the mushroom kingdom, and kidnapping Princess Peach (surprise, surprise!) , and takes the castle 
 with him. Mario then gets sent into space, and found by a girl named Rosalina, and her star-shaped 
 companions the Lumas. 
  Together, she and Lumas live in an orbiting observatory. From the observatory, you travel to distant 
 galaxies in search of power stars. In each galaxy you hop across planets and use launch stars to 
 travel. Once you've completed the galaxies within the first observatory, you fight with Bowser 
 Junior's robot Mega leg. Once you've destroyed this tripod, you receive a Grand Star, which is 
 then used to power the observatory's engine. Once you eventually obtain another grand star, all 
 of dimmed lights on the observatory go on, and you can travel to, in the end, 15 different galaxies.
 
  On your journeys, there are many side-quests and bonus features to explore. In the observatory, 
 there is a library, where Rosalina will read you the story of the observatory's creation. Also, 
 if you find three hidden green stars during your conquest, you unlock the three trials galaxies. 
 At first I didn't realize why they were called the "Trials" galaxies. Soon I learned why. With 
 the exception of one, the others took me between forty and fifty tries to finish. The hard ones 
 are one where you stand on a rolling ball and have to maneuver through a seemingly impossible course 
 of rotating cogs with holes in them (does the word Mini-World ring a bell) , and the other is Manta 
 surfing, which is quite similar to blooper racing from SMS. Also during the way you rescue Mario's 
 incompetent brother Luigi from haunted mansion. Along the way afterwards Luigi "helps" you find 
 three more stars. You know Luigi is a terrible plumber. 
  [spoiler] In the end, there are 120 stars. You should have 105 when you beat Bowser, but then you 
 have to go back to each of the 15 galaxies and get 100 purple coins to have all 120. Once you reach 
 120, you are allowed to fight Bowser a second time. With this repeat victory, you are now allowed 
 to play as Luigi. Now, if you want to, you can go back and play the game again with Luigi. Luigi 
 is faster, and can jump higher than Mario. Also, when you receive mail from peach, although it's 
 still addressed to Mario, the letter will contain 20 1-UP mushrooms instead of 5. If you are persistent, 
 and you complete the game again, with all 120 stars, return to the planet of trials. A newly arrived 
 fourth Luma will send you to the Grand Finale Galaxy. If you finally complete this level, you have 
 beaten the game completely. Afterwards, the Mailtoad will send a message to your Wii. Attached 
 is a picture of Mario and Peach. [/spoiler]
  Thus concludes a review possibly of the best Super Mario game of today, and possibly yet to come.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Padrepride
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  When I got my Wii, I waited and waited for Super Mario Galaxy to come out. It was certainly worth 
 the wait. The plot is simple enough with Bowser returning in yet another Mario game and capturing 
 Peach and the castle. Mario gets sort of taken with him up into the galaxy. He meets these rabbit 
 things, and you go on a training mission to find them in a game of hide and go seek. The control 
 scheme in this game is very good using your standard a button to jump and you have you ground pound 
 etc. Then you meet this girl who is the "mother" of all the galaxies. In my opinion, Mario should 
 just ditch Peach and go for her, but anyways, this leads to voice acting. Like in other Mario games, 
 there is little voice acting. Sometimes, the characters just say a key word like "oh no!" or "congratulations." 
 Also in sound, the sound track in this game is top-notch, with different themed music for each 
 galaxy. Coming back to gameplay, the boss battles are to die for. You have your standard Bowser/Bowser 
 Jr. battles with bullet bills etc., and then you have the new characters. The game requires strategy 
 and thinking. but of course you still get to take out charcters by jumping on them. I also love 
 the platforming levels that force you to negotiate the upside down/ right side up gravity situation. 
 That's perfect for the Wii. I love when right when the game starts to get a little repetitive, 
 it gives you Mario Bee, and Mario Ghost that completely revamp the gameplay and it invigorates 
 you to want to play more and more. Overall, I will cherish this game for a long, long time replaying 
 the story trying a new path each time. Can't wait till Mario Kart Wii and Super Smash Bros. Brawl 
 to come out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 510rockyhwd
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  This is a must have for wii owners and mario fans!!! and it is a over all great game!!!! yuo can 
 beat the game fast but thats if you just get the stuff you need to move on. if you want the most 
 out of it you should get as meany stars as posible. the game is realy fun and realy easy to play! the 
 cantros are good. so are the graphics and the music and sound. sound also comes out of the romote 
 too!! it is soo fun for any one. wii onwers should get it and if you dont own one get one! also some 
 people say nintendo is making it for the DS!! it would proboly be the same game play! well thats 
 it for now you can track me ,be my freind and aslo cheak out some of the other things i did like 
 my blogs, ratings, tages, and my other reviews!! till next time bye bye! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Konkero
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy can not be called trash or okay. Even though the graphics do not match up to 
 the Playstation 3 and Xbox 360 consoles, Super Mario Galaxy graphics is a mix of new animation 
 and classic look. Making your around many galaxies with a pink Luma is quite weird put enchants 
 Mario with new powers and never before seen moves. Such as a bumblebee and a spring Mario can turn 
 into. Before you can even start you can use your own Mii from your Wii and make it your planet. 
 But once again just like in all other Mario games you go on a long voyage to save Princess Peach 
 who got taken by Browser. Cool thing is rescuing Lugie at certain parts of the game never gets 
 old. "Mario to the saving." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  I wasn't sure what I was going to get after having played through Super Mario Sunshine. The Gamecube 
 game wasn't the worst ever, but it did kind of suck. Shifting over to the Wii, SMG is one of the 
 most innovative Mario games in the series. It has some very stunning graphic sequences. I would 
 want to be a fly on the wall when the developers discuss the parameters of the next installment.
 
  
  SMG features the Wii-mote as a pointer and motion-activator for particular devices within the game. 
 If you play it on 2-player, the second player gets their own on-screen cursor, can manipulate everything 
 the first player can and more, and can even help Mario complete higher jumps. You can shake the 
 control to activate a warp star, point and hold over blue pull stars to suspend Mario in midair, 
 or fire star bits at enemies and friends for different effects.
  
  You travel from galaxy to galaxy to complete particular tasks on your way to the center of the 
 universe. Some stars require you to suffer the altering effects of comets that can start you with 
 only 1 piece of life, speed up enemies, place a time limit, force a race against Shadow Mario, 
 or create a 100-coin challenge. The third star for many of the galaxies is a boss battle, and comets 
 can cause you to complete the battle under more strict parameters.
  
  The replay value of this game is excellent. After achieving 120 stars, you get to replay the game 
 as Luigi. After that, I am not even sure yet, but some stars are much more difficult than others 
 to obtain.
  
  The only piece that gets me is the story. It is somewhat childish, boring, and incomplete. There 
 is nothing in the story feature that engages more adult players in the game, except that it is 
 supposed to be accessible to a more general audience.
  
  I put this one up there with Super Mario 64 in terms of my excellent evaluation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whacy_Mac
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2008 3:44 am PT
Review:  I absoultely love Mario games, some of my favourite games of all time. Strechting way back to Super 
 Mario Land 3, all the way up to now, I have always loved the great platforming adventure. When 
 Mario 64 came out, I was in heaven, an amazing game, extremely fun to play, and yet still challenging. 
 Sunshine was a bit of a let down. But does Galaxy live up to the brilliance of 64?
  
  Well yes it does, and no it doesn't. Despite the massive hype of such an important game, it doesn't 
 quite live up the expectations of it's predecessor. The game however, does look amazing on the 
 Wii console, one of the best looking games out there on the platform, and it plays like a dream 
 with a nice combination of using the remote and the nunchuck to keep the gameplay inventive and 
 interesting. While using the remote to move on the manta is a great laugh, it has the opposite 
 effect when you have to use the ball, as it makes it almost impossible to keep decent control, 
 resulting in more than a few retries.
  
  The levels are just as fun as the other games, and extremely random. One of my favourites is where 
 there is a floating light, and it reveals platforms around it, but as it moves, they begin to dissapear. 
 This makes for quick reactions to stay in the light, but it is a great idea, shame it wasn't used 
 very much. The game sees you collecting Stars once again, to try and stop Bowser from taking over 
 the universe, and, once again, he has taken Peach. I don't know about you, but this idea is starting 
 to get way too repetitve. New idea please Nintendo.
  
  The main trouble with the game, is that it is way too easy. Even Bowser, the big baddie, is a massive 
 pushover. Compared to how difficult he was in 64, this is a major disapointment, and many of the 
 Stars are easy to get as well. If you don't want to collect them all, you can quite easily finish 
 the game extremely fast, in a good eight hours this adventure could be out of your way.
  
  While the game could have been alot worse, the random, whacky and interesting levels still make 
 this a memorable game. If you were hoping for an adventure like 64, you may end up dissapointed, 
 but this is still a fun, exciting game to add to your collection, albiet, easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrSoda
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2008 11:45 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best Mario games I have ever played, and one of the best games ever made period. 
 To understand everything about this game you have to play it for yourself. 
  
  Visuals: The visuals here are nothing short of impressive, and if you look back at other Wii games 
 and some current 360 and PS3 games, this game looks amazing. This is one of the only games to date 
 that can easily compete with a 360/PS3 game visualy and look like it's running on one of those 
 two systems.
  Score:10/10
  
  Gameplay: Now just like all Mario the controls, and gameplay are great. The whole aspect of gravity 
 is cool and it's just fun to see Mario long jump from one end of a planet to another, or jump off 
 a UFO type craft just to be pulled back and land on the bottom. The controls are great, Mario's 
 spin punch reacts dead-on when you shake either the Wii remote or Nunchuk, and there are some parts 
 that require tilting that are pretty interesting and usually really hard for some people including 
 me.
  Score:10/10
  
  Difficulty: To be short and sweet, this games curves around the branches of easy-hard, some levels 
 are nice and easy, some you may lose a lot of lives on, but for the most part the difficulty is 
 usually just right. 
  Score:9/10
  
  Story: Now the story is the usual "Save the princess and beat bowser" but there's a little more 
 then that. You also have to restore the star ship which serves as the main hub to help the new 
 Princess. That and you gradually unlock the story of the new Princess as you collect power stars.
 
  Score:8/10
  
  Sound/Music/Voice: This is the best 3-D Mario game period! and that's all you need to know. The 
 only thing I see wrong that actually isn't a problem is that there is less voice acting, it has 
 some and it always plays in at the right moments. Beyond that the music is great, the best music 
 you'll ever hear in a Mario game, the music when you actually fight Bowser is, well, just amazing.
 
  Score:10/10
  
  Conclusion: all in all, this, just as I said above, is the best 3-D Mario game ever, and that's 
 all you need to know.
  
  Visuals:10/10
  Gameplay:10/10
  Story:8/10
  Sound/Music/Voice:10/10
  
  Overall:10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savageguy
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2008 11:35 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion this is the best WII game, and will apeal to a much wider audience than SSBB, as 
 i dont see any reason in buying that game. As for Gaxlay well I basicly bought my WII for it. Some 
 people might think that it doesnt have a story line therefore it renders it's useless, well you 
 should think again becuase the story isnt the best but it definetly stands out more than in the 
 past mario games. Also the levels arnt so linear (not just running right) . The physx and graphics 
 are definetly the best for the WII so for, and im sure SSBB will be on par with this. Now I must 
 say this game has the best ending to any Mario Game ever, and the only problem with this game is 
 that i felt you shouldve been able to fight browser when you had 80 stars not 60 but anyway thats 
 it. AWESOME GAME! If you have a WII and you dont have this game go buy it NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boogieboy38
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy, so many words to describe it, addictive, a must-buy, highly innoractive. This 
 game has the exact same Princess saving premise you've come to know and sometimes been annoyed 
 with, but with a twist... you're in outer space. You can run up-sidedown, defy gravity, and even 
 get to use some pretty amazing abilities. There is the new spin move, done by shaking the wii remote, 
 and Mario has some new suits equipped with new powers. One of the new suits is the bee suit which 
 lets you fly like a bee. There's a suit that everyone can recognize the fire suit which lets you 
 shoot fireballs of course. Those are just some of the new suits you will get to play with and master. 
 This Mario game is the best one since Super Mario 64, not like that rip-off Super Mario Sunshine. 
 It's no wonder this game got the coveted game of the year award. Everyone who has a Wii must buy 
 this game. You are a moron if you don't buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wii60_3
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  When I was 8 in the year 2001 I got super Mario 64, it was the best game I ever owned even after 
 5 years of it's release.
  
  Now I didn't buy Sunshine because it didn't seem like the Mario I know, with a water pack and I 
 skipped it. But now Galaxy is here baby, and it's funner than 64, it makes up for sunshine.
  
  Galaxies sounds are great, but overlapping a few planets with the same sound was kind of lazy on 
 the developers part. They brought some sounds back from 64 which I liked.
  
  A lot of stuff happens after you get a star which keeps the game juicy, galaxies just keep coming 
 and you don't know where to go next just keep rolling. The punching and kicking is replaced by spinning 
 but it's not that bad.
  
  The story is the same Mario style story and it's straight forward, don't worry about the story collect 
 stars.
  
  About the time spent getting all the stars could take a while, and if your a 7 year old you get 
 the luxury of enjoying this game for months, but the hardcores rip through it and move on.
  
  The orbital worlds work extremely well I played sonic adventure 2 battle and there was a 2 
 levels for space one which had orbital worlds and you had to find emerald shards and the planets 
 did not work that level drove me crazy.
  
  Each Galaxy has it's own little story that comes into play while you collect stars there.
  
 
  A thing I actually didn't like about this game is that the requirements for a grand galaxy were 
 to small, I mean after I completed the second set of galaxies, well not 100% completed I already 
 had beaten the 4th area grand star galaxy, but after you get through it it's not a big deal because 
 no matter what you will still get the same outcome at the 100% completion of the game which I believe 
 95% who play will strive for, unless your a fan boy then you miss out on the game of the year.
 
  
  Super Mario Galaxy scores big in every aspect, and adds another chapter in the legacy of Mario.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: painter015k
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  This it. The game we've all been waiting for... and it was worth the wait. The graphics are the 
 absolute BEST ever to be seen on the Wii with every aspect of the game holding no flaws whatsoever. 
 Same goes for the audio, even though there isn't much voice acting (even though it sounds better 
 to have Bowser snarling instead of talking anyway.) The backround music in every level is just 
 perfect and brings back some good memories from Mario 64. Not to mention that the epic boss music 
 makes this game even better! Galaxy's difficulty can go from pushover easy to ultra hard. The final 
 boss was a bit of a bummer (it could have been a little harder!!!) Anyway, the level structure 
 is clever in design and can promise challenge in the endless barrage of puzzles that Galaxy offers. 
 Galaxy was well worth the wait and drips nothing but perfection! If you got a Wii then you have 
 to check out Galaxy (you won't regret it!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZF
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is Awesome.
  
  Gameplay: SMG's gameplay is a lot like SM64's, which is a good thing. You need to run around defeating 
 enemies collecting star bits etc. I know i make it sound boring but trust me you will be playing 
 for hours. Gameplay:10
  
  Graphics: EEMAZING Graphics:10
  
  Sound: This game has great music and to hear the classic "dungeon song"
  in the Good Egg Galaxy 
 go through the Orange pipe to a cave get the "?" coin and a bunch of note type things will appear 
 follw them and you will hear it! (if you do it you will get a 1-Up mushroom. Sound:10
  
  Controls: The Controls for this game are A-Okay use the control stick on the Nunchuck to move shake 
 the "wiimote" to spin B to shoot star bits etc.
  
  Fun:... done. Fun:10
  
  Overall: THIS GAME DESERVES GAMESPOT"S BEST GAME OF THE YEAR AWARD!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhillyBoy3
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  You've waited. You've watched the demos. Now the time has come. The Wii finally has it's killer 
 app. Everyone, I give you SUPER MARIO GALAXY!! 
  
  From the moment you start controlling Mario, you can tell it's not just a good looking game. You 
 can tell it is a BEAUTIFUL looking game. My eyes bleed with joy just looking at the graphics on 
 a standard tv, so think of how good it will be on a LCD tv with componet cables. 
  
  Nintendo also did a good job with the controls. They didn't push the wii controls on you. It's 
 classic Mario 64 controls for the most part, which is a good thing. They also did well with the 
 sounds. All of the music is perfect, from new areas, to old favorites.
  
  With great galaxies, comes great gameplay. Mario Galaxy could be compared as the 2nd coming of 
 Mario 64 or Super Mario Bros. 3. I compare them to both. Galaxy is like a combined version of both, 
 so two great games should equal one perfect game, right? Indeed! This game is a must buy, so stop 
 reading, steal your moms car, and go get Super Mario Galaxy, right now!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bsilver87
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  What can I say about this game?
  
  To tell you the truth, I was never a Mario fan, despite the many Nintendo products I had. I just 
 never really like Mario in his 3-dimensional form that much. I still though Super Mario 64 was 
 great and Sunshine was decent, but I never really played them fully.
  
  But here comes Galaxy, and it has stolen a good chunk of my time, and I've had loads of fun. Gameplay 
 is fresh, graphics are crisp and beautiful (the best for the Wii) , sound is spectacular too. All 
 in all, a formula for excellence, with the good old Mario touch that just makes it one of the best 
 games for 2007. Do a favor for me and buy this game.
  
  Professionals were right. By this, I mean that people in general were asking professional reviewers 
 if the game was any good and the whole "galaxy" approach just looked weird, but the game people 
 were somewhat skeptic about turned out great because it is.
  
  My only gripe is that sometimes the camera isn't all that good, but it's not a problem really.
 
  
  9.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cesarspalace
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2008 1:48 am PT
Review:  Well what can I say about this... Its a BAD ASS game. One of my favorite games of 07 and of all 
 time. This game is one of the reasons i bought the Wii, this and Super Smash Bros. Brawl. Galaxy 
 has very good graphics, compared to Sunshine. The graphics are amazing, everything is highly detailed, 
 from mario, to the bad guys, to the level designs. Its also really fun, you'll probaly play this 
 game for a long time, specialy if you wanna get the secrets from every level. People say its short 
 and easy, yes and yes, but like i said, its very fun and you get the old school Mario back, you'll 
 get the feeling you got back when you were playing Super Mario 64 and who could ever forget that 
 feeling. I'm still playing this game, trying to get the secrets considering that i dont play everyday. 
 Well that sums it all up, its a really fun game, amazing graphics, will have you playing for hours. 
 When I found out the date I reserved it and couldnt wait till it came out, i know you gotten that 
 feeling where you gotten ripped off your money, well this isnt one of those times, its all your 
 moneys worth. Hell, it even one Gamespot's Game Of the Year, thats good enough to me to know that 
 this is a great game, it even beat Call Of Duty 4, I played that game and its a good game, but 
 Mario took the title home. Get this game if you havent yet, which is hard to believe, and if you 
 dont have a Wii, then put down that PS3 or Xbox 360 controlers and go buy yourself a Wii, its worth 
 it, believe me, and for a game this great. Well its a great game, i HIGHLY RECOMMENED!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tikiz
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so I got my Wii for Christmas, and this is obviously the best game that I own. I'm sorry 
 Assassins Creed, but you just got owned. The graphics are beautiful, the controls work wonderfully, 
 the level design is flawless and the characters are original and cute.
  
  I'm not lying, the graphics are better than a lot of PS3 games now days. There aren't a lot of 
 Wiimote controls, but the little usage that the Wiimote does have is beautiful. The level design 
 is just... WOW... preforming silly little tasks to activate launch stars is amusing. The characters 
 are very cute and undeniabley brilliant. They're just so original.
  
  The graphics are so ridiculously colorful. They're without a doubt the most colorful ever. I'm 
 serious, if I had a penny for everytime I mentioned how beautiful and colorful these graphics were, 
 I'd have $307.89. Make that $307.90. Okay, anyway, the stars can be extremely frusturating to get 
 sometimes, and some minigames are annoying, but the rest of the game makes up for that.
  
  I personally think that mantaray surfing is brilliantly fun. Although a lot of people think it's 
 boring and hard. Mario has some great costumes, my favorite being Bee Mario. Don't listen to others, 
 the costumes aren't hard to use or boring, they're fun as heck to use.
  
  Okay, so the game does have it's flaws, but they're mostly small things, like having lives, which 
 is only annoying if you don't have many. But usually you'll have a lot of them on hand. Some of 
 the minigames are frusturating, like the ball rolling minigames, because the controls aren't always 
 so accurate, but that's not enough to make me hate this game or anything.
  
  Attacking is really fun. You shake the Wiimote to spin. This is actuall one of the most fun things 
 that I've done on the Wii so far. It's just so much fun and I don't know why. Seriously, it's one 
 of the most enjoyable things in any video game. EVER.
  
  You might be thinking something like "This guy is just a phanboy" but I'm not. Until just a little 
 while ago, I wasn't even crazy for Mario even the tinyest bit, but this game showed me the light. 
 Really, it's so much fun. No lies.
  
  Pros: Awesome graphics. Ridiculously colorful. Controls work wonderfully. Characters are cute and 
 original. Level design is great. There are some really fun minigames. Some of the new suits are 
 really fun to use.
  
  Cons: It can be frusturating. Mario doesn't always attack when you want him to. Certain minigames 
 are frusturating. 
  
  So the game isn't perfect, but it comes seriously close. I recommend this to any Wii owners. and 
 if youdon't own a Wii, then get one. It's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stebbinsd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Ah, Mario, the icon of icons in video games. Few have achieved the success that this plumber has. 
 Mario has been in almost every genre, from sports (of all kinds) to RPGs, to racers, to even educational 
 games (like Mario is Missing) , but the one genre where Mario shines more than in any other is platformers, 
 and the newest is Super Mario Galaxy, a space-sized adventure.
  
  What sets this game apart from all the other platforming-focused games is shape of the words; instead 
 of having flat or hilly horizontal worlds to explore, Nintendo opted to go for a bunch of worlds 
 that have no boundary, but nor are they infinite in size. I would call them spheres, but they are 
 rarely spherical. For example, the first galaxy you come to, the Good Egg Galaxy, starts off with 
 a planetoid with a tower that you can run up. It's a weird feeling when you see Mario running up 
 a vertical wall as easily as if it were horizontal. Weird, but fun.
  
  This often makes for some tricky platforming. The camera does not stay looking over Mario's shoulder, 
 but nor does the D stick change to accommodate the new position Mario is in; YOU have to accommodate 
 for it. This is funner than it sounds. You find yourself smiling the whole time.
  
  The presentation is equally as impressive. Controls are nice and tight, even those requiring the 
 Wii Remote pointer, and the graphics are better than Super Mario Sunshine (though you'd literally 
 have to juxtapose the two to tell the difference; look it up if you don't know what that word means) .
 
  
  Now, you may ask "if the game is so good, why give it a 9.5 and not a 10!" Well, the game isn't 
 perfect. The one place where the game falls flat is the lives system. Really, I don't see what 
 the point is. When you run out of lives, you just get sent back the the main area, plus you loose 
 all but three of your lives whenever you go to eat dinner. It's annoying and pointless. I understand 
 that this is a minor flaw that doesn't subtract from the overall quality of the gameplay, but tens 
 are only supposed to be given to games that are absolutely perfect. 
  
  Still though, this is a phenominal game that you will really want to run out and pick up. Combined 
 with Zelda: Twilight Princess, Metroid Prime Corruption, and Zach & Wiki: Quest for Barbaros' Treasure, 
 the Wii definately has a good library to justify its meager $250 price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buthead21892
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario games have always been and always will be the best games ever. This one is just another 
 one of those best games. If you have played mario games before you would pretty much get how to 
 play this one. The graphics are pretty good for the Wii. I think that it is very cool how you can 
 fly to different galaxies and planets by slings stars. I think it is awesome how there is different 
 gravity changes on different galaxies and planets. It is kind of hard to see whats in front of 
 you when you are traveling to the top or bottom of a planet though. Other than that, a classic 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kurt906
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Easily mario galaxy is the best game on the wii and maybe the best game ever. First the graphics 
 are stunning for the wii and puts other wii games to shame. The gameplay is perfect and percise. 
 The boss fights are kind of easy but very fun and you feel good when you beat a boss. The music 
 is so pitch perfect the only song i didnt like is the song that plays while you are choosing observitories. 
 Trying to find all 120 stars is so fun and all the different galaxies are fun to explore. This 
 game appeals to many gorups of gamers. Altough I do miss punching instead I have to do a spin move 
 but that is a very minor issue. If you have a wii good, now release the wii's full potential and 
 buy Super Mario Galaxy!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy had the potential to just copy Mario Sunshine or Mario 64. This would have a 
 made a good game for most gamers and a great one for avid Mario fans. The weird thing is Nintendo 
 made an incredibly new sequel. This is perhaps the best game in 2007 and this was no lackluster 
 year. There is absolutely nothing you can complain about with this game. The graphics are some 
 of the best we may ever see on the Wii for awhile. It just doesn't hit you with great modernization 
 of our favorite characters (bowser looks so cool) . It gives us eye kinda and some what sickness 
 with its topsy-turvy style. The controls are easy to pick up and anyone who has played Mario 64 
 will be right at home with them. All of the character models look amazing and the levels are varying 
 in difficulty so you don't feel as if it is to easy or too difficult. There are a total of 120 
 stars which will give you plenty of playing time before you get burnt out. The music takes you 
 back to old school mario with its modern style beat, and even adds some new memorable music. The 
 storyline is brand new and allows you to me new characters and explore worlds in a whole new way. 
 Super Mario Galaxy sets the bar pretty high for Wii software and games in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masterdj1992
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Very nice overall game. Design of the levels very creative with the familiar greens and such. Mario 
 is still at a lack of speech in his latest game but who would honestly fit the bill for such a 
 legendary characters voice-acting? Controls are simple but work very well. The story starts you 
 out as Mario going to see Peach because she has something to "give him". Bowser wrecks an "event" (dont 
 wanna give much away but who woulda guessed it was Bowsers fault? HA!) and Mario goes to recover 
 lost stars. The feature of you being able to pick up and fire "star bits" to stun enemies is very 
 helpful.
  
  Overall an addictive, fun game.
  
  Cons:
  Playing for a while with Mario going upside down and right side up on the planets gives you a headache. 
 Possibly a little over-hyped but still great fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioFan1992
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  it's hard just to BEGIN to sum up the greatness of this game.
  
  STORY: fantastic. seeing it unfold on the game was so cool. they took the typical "Bowser Captures 
 Peach" scenerio, and upped it a level. instead of Bowser just kidnapping Peach, he kidnaps her 
 and the whole Castle! overall, this story couldnt be better. (5/5)
  
  SOUND: wow, is all i can say. nice, rich, and not some screeching, annoying sounds like you hear 
 in Super Mario Sunshine. the sound volume is just right, and so is the creativity of some sounds, 
 like when you fire a Star Bit at an enemy, or when an enemy is stunned by Mario's spin attack. 
 (4.5/5)
  
  GAMEPLAY: the gravity is crazy! i love moving around all the planets. i fall off of a planet just 
 to get pulled back on to it. your odds of dying couldnt be any smaller, and even THAT couldnt be 
 more perfect. this and the slow, but perfect, rise in difficulty makes the game seem like the Super 
 Mario Bros. of the decade! (5/5)
  
  MUSIC: next to the gameplay, this is the best part of the game. some of the tunes, such as the 
 Super Mario Bros. theme song, are brought back and revamped to fit today's generation. some songs, 
 like the music when battling Bowser, are quite catchy and may cause you to hum or tap your feet. 
 you know that the music made in this game isnt bad when that happens! (5/5)
  
  REPLAY VALUE: ive completed the game 100%, and i still play it. im quite addicted to the game, 
 and i think you will too. there are little to no other Wii games that have this ability.
  
  RENT OR BUY? buy. no ifs, ands, or buts about it. shame on you for not having this game already! 
 this game is a must have for your Wii collection. its no wonder, as everything on the game is simply 
 perfect. i think nearly everyone who has played it couldnt agree more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sasuke_Ninja21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Not owning a Nintendo Wii and going through blockbuster about 8 times passing through the columns 
 where everytime i would see Super Mario Galaxy on the shelfs and then i would walk into the Xbox 
 360 Column... i got so fed up with actually going through that column i was like you know what..... im 
 just gonna do this, took the game rented it and brought it over to my freinds house to play it.... was 
 it worth it... uhhh.... YES!!!
  
  This Mario game starts as any Mario game should with Princess Peach being taken away by that guy 
 that you threw into bombs and smacked on his head the all well known..... Bowser... you start by 
 running around a toad village collecting star bits when the big bad Bowser shows up and OMG steals 
 peach away from you, your mission after you get to the orbital space station is to power up the 
 engine and all the little hobbles around the space station and use the space station to save the 
 Princess who just so happens to be in the middle of the galaxy with bowser.... wonder what they 
 are doing for like the millionth time... bowa chika bow wow....
  
  Alright on to the gameplay which bares a striking resembalence to Super Mario 64 but is not exactly 
 like it. You'll basically be running around through diffrent galaxies and smashing hitting and 
 shooting star pieces at your enimes coming by and also getting into alot of neat little boss battles. 
 The one thing that sets this game apart from all the other mario games is how the gravity feels 
 when moving from one area to another by via port of shooting through a star or by jumping and using 
 the gravatational pull to mounver to a diffrent area.
  
  Your main attack will be a spin move that mario does when you swing the wii remote around which 
 really knocks out a enemy then you can either ground pound on it or just jump on it via just jumping 
 lol, it does take a second or two for it to reacharge so dont go around thinking you can continuaslly 
 use it because you'll just end up dying from smaking into it
  
  Which brings me to my next point this game is NOT a total cake walk at all because later on in 
 the game it does gradually get harder which might frustrate little kids into through the controlers 
 on the ground or by hardcore gamers actually getting a good kick out of it.
  
  The spin attack isnt the only attack that you can use as i said you can jump on eneimes but as 
 you should already know swinging your controller around to collect star bits is another big thing 
 about the game being that star bits are a weapon but is also which is the currency of the game 
 so shooting to many star bits at eneimes wont allow you to get some stars that are hidden by the 
 chicken/rabbit luma's
  
  You will find costumes around diffrent area's of a planet and galaxy each having to do with that 
 level meaning that if you dont have that costume with you say for instence ice mario then you wont 
 be able to continue going through that one area. The costumes are cool and you'll enjoy alot of 
 them but some of them are really a bother like being ghost mario which is really hard to control 
 and go through walls with and the bee costume where you fall into water or get it and you lose 
 it.
  
  Now i will talk about controlls which is where everyone has a diffrent frame of mind because alot 
 of people that havent played the game figure it must be pretty difficult to actually move him around... it 
 is actually quite easy you use the numchuck controller to move around and you use the other controller 
 to shake to spin attack and jump.
  
  There are some area's off the game where you will just have to use the controller and tilt it sideways 
 or move it up to role a ball or surf which is pretty fun but also diffucult at the same time.
 
  
  The graphics in this game are the best on the wii yet you'll gradually start to stare off into 
 space and at diffrent planets seeing how the colour freshly calms down your memory or when a huge 
 boluder will start to run over you and you just keep staring at it going.... awww.... what im dead!?!
 
  
  The details on all the characters are really nice and look alot just like Super Mario Sunshine 
 but Super Mario Galaxy deffinetly has a better look and even feel to it as well as how the stars 
 shine brightly into the players faces.
  
  The is a multipalyer aspect in the game you can hook up another wii controler and that person can 
 collect star bits and shoot them at eneimes but it really dosent come very useful unless you dont 
 collect any star bits at all.
  
  This game clocks in around id say about 12-15 hours depending if you play it just to get the 60 
 stars but in total there are 120 stars that you must find which will probably take you another 
 10 hours so if you wanna get every hidden star and every little commet orbiting around a planet 
 then it could take you about 32 hours of non-stop Mario action which is quite a good thing for 
 50$
  
  Overall this should be a YES YES YES!!! to any wii owner, platform wii owner, or just a mario lover 
 and after you beat the game and collect the 120 stars.... you might just go back through the game... with 
 a hidden suprise 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IrfaanHafeez
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Mario started the Video game craze in 2D. Then he brought it to 3D. He cant be stopped. He is the 
 King of Video games and will always be the king of Video games. Galaxy is a true Mario game in 
 which the levels, characters, etc are beautifully designed. Miyamato brought Mario from so far 
 and has not taken a step back in doing so. Galaxy is in depth and is a 50 hour game easy and but 
 also if your dumb you can play it again after getting 120 stars with Luigi to get the 121st star 
 which is a waste of time. It not only stays to its roots but it also goes beyond delivering great 
 graphics and visuals in which the game benefits from. Its a definite game of the year choice and 
 is the best Wii game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoGC
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy. One of AThe greatest games you can get on the wii.
  
  What a masterpiece! all the Music Is Orcashtrated and Clear and fits in with the levels.
  
 
  the controls are slick and easy to handle.
  
  the plot is Completely Non Senscial. but hey, it's a Mario game. it doesn't have to make sense!
 
  
  the game play is very nice and there is a lot of Replay value. 120 stars to collect and about 35 
 galaxys to explore, this game will have you playing for quite a while.
  
  This game is well worht your 50 dollars adn you won't be dissappointed.
  
  Great Job Nintendo! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrHolmes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy will take you back in time and forward to the future with a near perfect blend 
 of charm, variety, nostalgia and pure fun. Drawing much of the organization of the Galaxy from 
 Mario Sunshine this game is easy to pick up and begin exploring. Although you will spend little 
 time on the main level. It is amazing how inventive and unique each world and level are while retaining 
 the feel of so many past adventures. Many of the challenges can be difficult but not impossible 
 making for an enjoyable and not a frustrating time spent. The addition of the second player's ability 
 to help is perfect for the companion that enjoys watching but would like to be more involved. My 
 wife and I look forward to getting a few more stars except we usually have to do it after the kids 
 go to bed as they want to be the one helping collect the star bits. All in all Galaxy is worth 
 the accolades it is receiving and worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaiserWebb
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  We all know that the Wii isn't exactly a graphics powerhouse with some calling it graphics wise 
 a gamecube.5 but this game still manages to be beautiful thanks to its stunning art direction and 
 style making this surprisingly one of the most impressive looking games on the market.
  
  Audio:
  From the remixes of classic Mario music to the new theme music this games audio is amazing, 
 enough said =]
  
  Gameplay:
  The game is huge with over 40 galaxy's to explore each as deep and, more importantly, fun as the 
 next. The space setting as a whole new element to Mario in which we have never seen before and 
 the genius level design is well, genius. Only really blah thing is underwater swimming still is 
 awful but its no game killer and there isn't much in the game so its forgiven.
  
  Overall: 
  After the disappointment of sunshine its great to see Galaxy finally gives us what 
 we want, the true sequel to Mario 64 with amazing gameplay that makes us remember why we loved 
 Mario to begin with, its a must buy for any Wii owner and an amazing game.
  GO BUY IT NOW!
  
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2-10-08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  Alright, Super Mario Galaxy is a platformer for the Wii. Mario has to ... save princess peach.. 
 , but the story doesn't matter anyway. He goes along in each galaxy, collecting stars and starbits (which 
 is the real currency, coins are just health) . There are 120 stars in the game, although you only 
 need half of them to beat the game. In addition to his previous line up of moves including the 
 back flip, long jump, and wall jump is his ability to spin by shaking the wii mote or nunchuk. 
 This attack can be used to stun enemies, flip swithces, gain a little extra distance on his jump, 
 or even catch shells mid-flight. 
  
  Of course, the main thing in the game that is so different is the gravity factor. A lot of objects 
 in the universe can be traversed on all sides. While it takes some time getting used to, it really 
 is the defining point of the game. You probably know that this can be used in all sorts of crazy 
 puzzles that are all very unique. 
  
  Both the graphics and sound of this game are absolutely amazing, the game finally shows what the 
 wii can actually do. 
  
  Cons- was kind of hoping for a big level that you couldn't actually see it all from one area, and 
 battling Bowser is sort of boring, or at least in contrast to the rest of the game.
  
  Easily one of the best games on the wii, and this game will be remembered for years to come, again, 
 mostly because of the gravity factor, but secondly because mario is the funnest character in a 
 game to control. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prez_Pikle_24
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is not like any other mario the things mario is able to do and survive doing 
 is incredible the only thing the same is the story line how browser has captured peach and Mario 
 must goto her rescue. This game is a real good game with minor flaus this game not only does it 
 have the best graphics for the wii there the best graphics i've seen in a while the graphics on 
 this game are just as good as most the games for xbox 360. This game is also very fun for all ages 
 it's not like oh Mario it's a baby's game this game is truly pretty difficult but fun. Playing 
 as Mario is something everyone has to do at one point in their life if you think your a hardcore 
 gamer and you haven't played this game of the year your wrong because hardcore gamers would have 
 tried this and even fot those who play and beat video games with no problem i think even you would 
 have troubles trying to beat it. This games holds many fight exciting levels and the sound track 
 is so catchy by the end of the first hour you will probablly be humming the tunes well walking 
 around and not only is that sound track so atchy but boss battles are fun and designed like no 
 other instead of the basic attack your apponant and hope to survive it's a battle of wits where 
 you must use your clever skills you pick up during playing the game to try to out smart your apponent 
 like if you no how to sling shot your self with the help of an item if that items there use it 
 to your advantage and find the points to take it down or if jumping is needed jump for your life 
 no matter how hard this game may look it is just right the only flaus are some levels dont explain 
 them selves and you could find yourself wondering for hours trying to find a grand star which is 
 used to fly and get princess peach i believe that the one thing that could make this game better 
 is if you put a map wth a destination dot telling you where your current mission is and showing 
 you the route to get there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andres836
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is hands down the best Wii game of the year. I hope that will last a long time, 
 but with SSBB coming next year its going to be tough. Anyways Super Mario Galaxy does many things 
 right and really nothing wrong except for the fact that many stars are to easy, though they may 
 be easy the gameplay is very addictive I found myself on Christmas day really playing all day long 
 . I finished the game in 3 days but I currently only have 90 stars and I am working to get the 
 others. Some of the stars though are rather hard such as the daredevil and speedy stars. Anyways 
 the graphics are good the gameplay is great co-op can be fun but it gets boring after a while unless 
 the person you are playing with is crazy and likes to make you jump for everything hahahahah. The 
 re-play value is great because you get extra things unlocked with the more stars you get. Though 
 the story line you'll finish in one day or two days (depending on much you play) the other stars 
 will take you twice as long and once you get all the stars something good happens :) . This game 
 is the best Mario game ever it has a great variety as well as many interesting things to do ( The 
 music is also the best) . The many different costumes are great and saving people like luigi is 
 always fun especially when he sends you a card to help him and hes hugging a tree from being so 
 scared hahahaha. The game has many funny and great parts, it is truly a game that the whole family 
 can play and a game that will not waste your money. If you have the money I strongly recommend 
 this game to you, and if you think Mario is a kids game you are terribly wrong. Super Mario Galaxy 
 is the best game of the year!!!!!!
  
  Score 9.5 
  Yay!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mpl454
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Super mario galaxy is with out a doubt the best game on the Wii it has solid controls, great visules, 
 great level desine and it's just fun. If you're like me and hated Super mario sunshine then you'll 
 love this game. The bosses are not hard but very fun to play. It's also got good music and sound 
 effects. Its just a great game that will become a classic in years to come.
  
  Gamplay:9.0
  Graphics:9.0
  Music/sound:8.0
  
  Overall:9.0 So as I said this game is great 
 the best on the wii. The reason this review is so short well it's hard to describe how good this 
 game is. And in order to submit this imust have at least 800 characters so.........
  
  u u u u u u u u u u u u u u u u u u u u u u u u uu u uu u u u u u u u uu u u u u u u u u uu u u 
 u uu uu u u u u u u u u u u u u u uu u u u u u u u uu u u u u u u u u uu u uu u u u u u u u u u 
 u u u u u u u uu u u u u u u u u u u u u u u u u uu u u u u u u u u uu u u u u u u u uu uu u u 
 u u u u u u uu u uu u u u u u 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theoldcow12
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  (Spoilers I include things to support my rating) 
  
  I played the game, and beat it. To start off I had mixed feelings about it, some parts were fun, 
 and some parts weren't. I felt that the game was aimed toward a younger age then I am. I'm late 
 teens, but everyone would enjoy the game at least to some extent (its based for all ages, the younger 
 you are the more you will get out of it) , and that was the case for me. Here is my review of this 
 game. (Please respect my views and opinions of this game even if you disagree, this review might 
 help you out if you're a older teen looking to buy this game)
  
  Using the rating system of game spot 7- good 8-great and so on
  
  Story- 6 fair. The story, 
 well, its a Mario game you go in and the princess gets kidnapped by Bowser and you have to save 
 her. I had no problem doing this. The story of the game though with the Lumas really didn't do 
 anything for me, almost took stuff out of the game play even though the specialty ones were pretty 
 neat. At some points in the game I thought to myself, what am I playing this game for to help these 
 stars out and this other princess, or save peach? Two stories in one that really aren't good, makes 
 it a fair story at most might even be worse then fair. The galaxy theme is good in some points 
 and kind of repetitive in others but it really dosent takes anything out of the story by having 
 the planets, I almost wish there was no story about the Lumas. Overall it's a 6 I might be generous 
 with that.
  
  Graphics- 10 easily the best, basically perfect. There really is nothing that would make me think 
 otherwise or anything major that would make me to give it less. The planet design was nice and 
 sharp. I liked the larger levels better then the ones more spread out. But that dident have to 
 do with the way it looked
  
  Gameplay 7.5- Good game play, but not great there could be better things. The thing that really 
 made it not be great would be the camera angle; sometimes I got so frustrated at the camera angle 
 that it ruined the level for me. Why couldn't they make it that so you can shift to the left or 
 go behind Mario, is that so hard? Also sometimes the suits were hard to use like the flying one 
 I tried using it and quit because the bad control. Sometimes under water control was hard but once 
 you got going under water it was fine, getting in the water and going down sometimes was a hassle 
 but really this would be no problem if the camera angle was better. Could a camera really ruin 
 the game though? No it's still a good game. The level design is great for the vast themed word 
 ones, but there's somewhere they almost are all the same theme (space theme) thrown in space. The 
 galaxies in the 1st observatory such as space junk and battle rock I didn't like, but those and 
 one at the bedroom or the kitchen, I forget where, but it involved a grass theme and flowers I 
 didn't like. I felt it was way to childish at some points in the game, these few levels and some 
 parts of others where like this. I enjoyed all the other levels mostly so that's just 3 levels 
 that I personally did not like completely. Collecting stuff sometimes got tedious to get a launch 
 star but that's the way the game is.
  
  Sound- 8 great sound in the game but some felt a little too childish for me. In some of the levels 
 some of them are a bit bad, again a little to childish. I liked most of the sounds but a few just 
 stood out as I didn't really like, but overall its great.
  
  Other 8 (see conclusion )
  
  In conclusion the game was great, but as my age, I somewhat found parts of the game to be too 
 childish for me. The Wii is aimed toward the family and really that's what the games are going 
 toward and I really didn't expect the game to be a crazy game that a younger kid could not play, 
 its rated E for everyone, its supposed to be made for everyone, Nintendo included parts in the 
 game for all age groups, but the older you get the more that sticks out that you don't like in 
 my opinion. You ever go back and play one of the games from when you were younger and go wow, this 
 was great back then but its somewhat childish for me now, I felt that way sometimes in the game. 
 I would probably of loved the game if I was younger, and like everything about it. It was somewhat 
 aimed for a younger audience, got to take this in to account when playing a Mario game. I sometimes 
 regret buying a Wii because of the quality of the games that have been coming out, but this game 
 is top notch for Nintendo and is probably the best game on the Wii for all around everyone to play, 
 but it was just a somewhat great/good game for me, nothing wrong with that title for a game. Would 
 recommend it for a younger audience, or a family with younger members they probably would get more 
 out of it then a older teen.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: h3ktlk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of this game i was very excited. I was a huge fan of Mario 64 on the N64. I 
 beat that game more then any other I believe. I got Super Mario Galaxy for Christmas this year 
 and was very excited as other then wii sports this was the only game I have for wii excluded GameCube 
 games.
  
  When i first started playing I was a little skeptical on how the controls were going to pan out 
 with the chuck and all, but when i started gettin into the game i found them to be quite nice. 
 Then i was struck with the camera angles. At first i was against the toppsy derbie angles that 
 were presented to me, but as i started collecting stars and continued on it became quite clear 
 that this Mario was going live up the the hipe that it was presented with.
  
  The play of jumping small land to another is quite entertaining and keeps you wanting to see whats 
 next.
  
  One of those games you could sit and play until you beat it and not want to put it down.
  
 
  I'm going give this a 9.5 just so it will give them even higher marks to reach next time around. 
 Please do not keep us waiting for another Mario game like this for long!
  
  Thanks!
  
  h3ktlk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HK-47-M4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is the third game in the insanely popular Super Mario Franchise. Super Mario 
 64 was a masterpiece, but Sunshine was a little disappointing. Fortunately Galaxy is near flawless.
 
  
  Graphics: 9.5 out of 10
  
  The graphics in Super Mario Galaxy are fantastic. This more cartoony style helps to veil the Wii's 
 weaker graphics. The game is even eye candy in some levels.
  
  Sound: 9.5 out of 10
  
  The sound in this game is wonderful as well. From catchy tunes to immersive orchestra music, Galaxies 
 has it all. 
  
  Tilt: 9 out of 10
  
  Galaxies was a blast to play, from start to finish. And who doesn't love a good Mario game? The 
 level designs were so much fun and so creative! The only complaint I have is that some levels get 
 a bit frustrating and the purple coin missions were BORING!
  
  Value: 9.5 out of 10
  
  You will spend plenty of time searching for the 120 stars. The only multiplayer mode there really 
 is is that a second player can help you by shooting star bits at enemies and stunning enemies with 
 the pointer. 
  
  Gameplay: 9.5 out of 10
  
  Almost all of the levels in this game are fun. A few get frustrating, like I said before, and the 
 purple coin missions are boring, but other than that you will love the gameplay.
  
  Total Score: 9.4
  Gamespot Round: 9.5
  
  Conclusion: 
  
  If you own a Wii, get this game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andorhal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  Lets start with the gameplay. The basic actions for mario are nicely mapped on the Wiimote and 
 nunchuck, yes they are both required. And it does not cramp your fingers or require frantic button 
 tapping. One good thing about this game is that instead of a tutorial, the game gradually introduces 
 new concepts to you while your playing the game, covering the basics in the introduction, before 
 you really get into combat. The game "revolves" around planets in exactly 5 planets in 5 Galaxies 
 each of 5 of those, wich are in one giant Galaxy., hence the name. Well, according to common knowledge, 
 the fact that they call the orginial group of planets "Galaxies", You completedYour goal is to 
 collect these "Grand Stars" to help your "Star Ship" get to new groups of galaxies, which you need 
 to get access to to get more "Power Stars" to travel to farther galaxies from your ship in those 
 groups of galaxies. It sounds confusing but it is quite simple in reality. You need to get 50 of 
 these "Power Stars" to get to the center of the universe to rescure Princess Peach. In about 1 
 or 2 galaxies per group you have plaets that introduce you to new gameplay mechanics, often in 
 single power star galaxies, which will come up in bonus galaxies. New to the franchise is the inclusion 
 of new types of "currency weapons" star bits that you collect with your wiimote pointer that you 
 can use to buy powerups and unlock new, bonus galaxies that are single starred. One sad thing though 
 is that you can get to the final area after completeing only 4 of the 5 galaxies.
  
  The music is compelling and fits the tune of the individual galaxies, its a mix between classic 
 and up tempo music, it seemed fermiliar to me. Sound effects are good too.
  
  The graphics are very good ofr the wii and they really shine when you see bowser, its like they 
 polished him up more than anyone, go figure.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KriobaKeys
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  Where to start, this game is:  and fun did i mention 
 fun?
  The level design is wierd, wacky, zanny, beautiful and coulorful, it has somthing for everyone 
 whether your in a haunted mansion level or a bright, happy green level. The gravity element to 
 this game is mindblowing, i can't get over how much you can step on due to the gravity, there's 
 even a ball of floating water you can swim in.
  Many people have said this game is too easy, i don't agree with that, you really have to put you 
 mind to it for some levels you have think an awfull lot, where to go, what to do, does that platform 
 have gravity? Speaking of puzzles the sheer amount and various kinds of puzzles and challenges you 
 can do, not seperate but inside the level, are great. On one level your on a fully gravitational 
 platform, there are bombs being shot at you, zapper walls coming your way and balls floating round 
 the side that can zap you, you really have to think and concentrate here or you're screwed, i remember 
 completing this puzzle in one life by accident .
  Now before i go into anything else i need to say about the graphics and these little creatures 
 called Lumas. Lumas are possibly the cutest group of pixels you will ever come across, the things 
 they say, how they speak , they way they move they are so cute. There are certain pink lumas you 
 have to feed, they shake their arms around "in snacky happiness" as you feed them, they also get 
 fatter the more you feed them, and then scream TRANSFORM in a squeak and burst off into a planet. 
 Off the cuteness onto the graphics. These are probably the smoothest looking graphics i've seen, 
 this game has so much polish! I haven't come across one glitch involving graphics in my time of 
 playing this game. The coulors to the graphics are so solid and rid of being pixelated, you feel 
 like they belong in a rainbow. If you've got a HD tv you will get the absoloute upmost of these 
 graphics the reflection and clearness will be almost unbeliveable.
  I think of all the things i need to mention it's game play the most. It's the best gameplay of 
 all the Mario series i mean it, the adventure is so immersive and fun, the controls are SO easy 
 to pick up, anyone of all skills can at least play this game and to get past the end level isn't 
 very hard. Now if you want to collect all or nearly all of the power stars you're looking at quite 
 a challenge. there are certain levels that are fairly hard, but i'm quite good at games, for a 
 first timeat a Wii game it's quite hard, and for a first time at any games it's very hard, so if 
 you can't complete the game there's a very very slim chance you'll collect all or nearly all the 
 power stars. That having said if you're good at dodging and evaluating whats happening you'll also 
 need a good eye, you could get all the stars on this game without having played a Wii game before. Anouther 
 easy point wich i don't particuly like, it's not a bad point but i don't like it, is the amount 
 of stars it takes to unlock a bowser level, it's too little. One level i'd just completed i had 
 like 40 stars then i whent onto the next one and it only required you to have 35 or somthing stars 
 to unlock the bowser level, so if i was a cheapskate i could just skip to the bowser level and 
 complete this whole level.
  So in reality you really need to get this game no question if you have got a Wii get it you WON'T 
 be disapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbaily
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Mario games are like Pixar movies. While they don't have blood, gore and explosions, everyone can 
 still enjoy them.
  
  It's been a while since we got a true platforming adventure from Mario. We endured what seems like 
 years of parties and sports with an occasional paper adventure. Platformers not based on kids cartoons 
 are far and few between these days. Rachet throws us a bone now and then, Sonic's been on life 
 support and everyone ignored Psychonauts and in recent years, we've passed on platforming in favor 
 of shooting and free roaming thuggery and I've said it before "Master Chief killed the platforming 
 star."
  
  But finally Mario has returned to his roots with Super Mario Galaxy. Where as Super Mario 64 revolutionized 
 3D platforming, hopefully Galaxy can revitalize the almost dead genre. Last we hung out with Mario 
 was on Isle Delfino and while Sunshine was fun, it didn't feel very fresh. It was just a backpack 
 full of water and the fact that you could ride Yoshi for the first time in 3D. However this is 
 everything we hoped for and more.
  
  As with most Mario games, don't expect a deep story. It is the Mushroom Kingdom Star festival and 
 Princess Peach has invited Mario to meet her there but no sooner does Mario arrive than Bowser 
 and his airships invade and wreak havoc on Toad Town. With help from a flying saucer, Bowser lifts 
 up the castle taking with him Princess Peach. The opening scene is rather impressive to watch. 
 You actually feel a sense of helplessness watching Toads run in terror as fire reigns down. Mario 
 tries to save her only to have Kamek blast him across the Galaxy. Mario awakens to meet some chubby 
 little stars and a girl named Princess Rosalina the star queen who offers to help Mario save Peach 
 if he can get the stars back to power her space station.
  
  As with all Mario games, the gameplay is excellent as usual. Controls are tight and suprising not 
 terribly Wii-centric. You shake the remote to make Mario do a spin attack and shake to launch yourself. 
 The remote also controls a pointer that allows you to pick up star bits needed for things later 
 on. There are a few levels that require some steering with the controller like surfing on a sting 
 ray or pushing yourself in a bubble but the controls never feel intrusive.
  
  The level design is spectacular. The game is the nicest looking Wii game to date and looks good 
 on an HDTV. Some worried that the game would be nothing but jumping on small spheres but there 
 are plenty of large levels that feel more old school. Also whoever did Bowser's animation and design 
 deserves a raise and a promotion. Even better is the return of transformation suits not seen since 
 SMB3. There's the SNL bee costume which lets Mario fly and climb on honeycombs as well as giant 
 bee queens who are too lazy to scratch themselves. There's the Boo suit which turns Mario into 
 a ghost and lets him move through walls. The Ice suit which turns Mario into Iceman and lets him 
 walk on fire and water and old school Mario fans can rejoice in the return of the fire flower. 
 Not only does it take out baddies but it can be used to light torches to open new paths. Finally 
 there's the spring suit which is horrible. It bounces around even when you're not pushing the analog 
 stick and it just doesn't control well.
  
  Mario fans can rejoice even more in that Luigi actually has a decent part in this. While some sort 
 of multiplayer with Luigi would've been nice as with New Super Mario Bros. Once Mario rescues Luigi 
 from a haunted mansion stage (no suprise there) , you're brother helps you out by finding hidden 
 stars for you. After this and Super Paper Mario, it is nice to see Luigi getting a decent part 
 in Mario games without feeling intrusive. But where's Yoshi!? Lack of Yoshi in SMG did upset me 
 a little but I won't base my score on something so fanboyish. But unlike Sunshine, this game is 
 full of familiar objects and bad guys. Goomba, bloopers, koopa troopas, Magickoopas and bullet 
 bills are everywhere to be seen. Bowser Jr. shows up to wreak some havoc as well but I'm still 
 wondering what happened to the Koopalings.
  
  The only complaint I have is that we still have frustrating swimming levels. They were always a 
 pain and if we have to get stuck with swimming levels, why didn't they bring back the frog suit? 
 The camera gets too hung up in the water I feel.
  
  While nothing will be like first seeing Mario in 3D as in Super Mario 64, Super Mario Galaxy will 
 easily go down as one of the greatest Mario games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_of_Dark
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2008 4:41 am PT
Review:  From the minute I put the game into my console, I knew I was in for a treat. I love Mario games, 
 and I don't have too many titles for the Wii, so I went and got it about 2 months ago. I have been 
 busy, so the few times I played my Wii, I played Mario. A few minutes ago, I just beat the game, 
 and I must say, I am throughly impressed. Everything from the music, to the platforming feels like 
 Mario. But overall, this game is the single most innovative platformer I have ever played. From 
 walking on walls, to upside down, to flying in space, this game delivers on all fronts. I played 
 this on my '34 720p TV and it looked really fantastic. Though the Wii is not the most powerful 
 system in terms of graphics, it just bleeds style and hard work. This is a great looking game on 
 a system where there are very few others other than Zelda :TW and Metroid Prime 3. The difficulty 
 varies from level to level, proving excellent use of the Wii controller without overusing it. Overall 
 this game impressed me. Though I honestly have a lot of new games, and sometimes, they don't all 
 feel satisfying. I am glad to say that this game was worth every penny and is without a doubt, 
 one of the best games I have ever played. If you own a Wii, do yourself a favor and buy this game. 
 You won't be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REAL12
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 1:43 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed the 3D experience to the game, the new game play, nice new graphics and old school Mario 
 touches. This is an "all overgood game and can be played by anyone. The 2nd player addition 
 is very helpful if you play with someone who understands what to do! 
  Once you get going with this game it gets very very good but there is a brief "Break In" period 
 of where you are not sure if you like it or not. Keep playing and you get used to the 3D aspect 
 and it becomes a sweet sweet game!
  My only dislikes with this game were the pop up boxes that characters say. I didn't want to keep 
 clicking on info characters over and over again. It would have been nice to be able to use the 
 "Back" button to get out of the conversation or to use the "A" button to scroll through it a bit 
 faster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chillydawg5000
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is by far the best game that I have played this year (Yes I've played almost 
 all of the games up for game of the year - except Crysis... I'm a Mac man, and even if it were 
 out for Mac, mine couldn't handle it) . The game is absolutely amazing in so many ways. The soundtrack 
 fits with the game perfectly. I tried playing with the sound completely off, and the game seemed 
 totally different, and somewhat not as fun. The soundtrack adds so much to the game. The level 
 designs are amazing. The way the different planets are designed gives you so many different challenges 
 in order to get the power stars. There are some stars that are almost too easy, and some that are 
 almost too hard, but most of them are just the right difficulty to make the game ridiculously fun. 
 I recommend this game to anyone and everyone. It's Mario, if you like Mario, then you'll like Super 
 Mario Galaxy, and if you hate Mario, try Super Mario Galaxy anyway. This is a good enough game 
 that it may turn Mario haters into Mario lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiifan001
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  A decade ago, the ever popular Super Mario 64 brought amazement to all and defined how 3d games 
 should be. A decade later, many Mario games have been released since then. Now we have Super Mario 
 Galaxy available for the Wii. I can safely say that this is the best Mario game we've had since.
 
  
  The game begins with Mario heading up to Princess Peach's castle. Just before Mario makes it, Bowser 
 seizes the castle brings to space, the center of the universe to be exact. Mario is struck by a 
 Kamek and sent to down to a planet. This may very familiar to Paper Mario fans. The story line 
 is the same on that note. There are even 7 Grand Stars to collect. Mario must collect 120 stars 
 and save the princess. I know, it's a combination of Paper Mario and Super Mario 64. This time 
 the Grand Stars will be used to open more galaxies rather than help fighting off baddies.
  
  There is a different story in contrast to this. This one involves a new character named Princess 
 Rosalina. As you go on you'll hear about her story and how she's connected to the hundred year 
 comet that passes by every hundred years and these little Star creatures called Lumas.
  
  The first level starts out looking for 3 bunnies on this planet which will lead you to the First 
 Grand Star. Then you'll unlock an observatory which will lead to these galaxies. Mario Galaxy provides 
 some of the craziest level designs that video games have ever offered. It's all mind blowing and 
 an crazier thing of these "planets" is that they have their own gravity. This is revolutionary 
 because this is the first platformer game to have ever used gravity effects. With gravity you'll 
 be walking upside down, backwards, and sometimes even both. 
  
  To go from planet to planet, these stars (not power or grand stars) will launch you to the other 
 planets. This is done by shaking the Wiimote on the star. Mario will literally fly through space 
 to the other planets Superman style. His arms wave out and the way the camera moves while he's 
 flying is just jaw dropping. There are a few dozens galaxies in the game. Each are incredibly unique 
 and on galaxies where there is more than one star will often times lead you to a completely different 
 part of that galaxy leading to new exploration. Often times you'll have to find 5 parts to the 
 star which will create it.
  
  Mario gets a lot of old techniques as well as some new ones. The backflip, triple jump, and crouching 
 are all back in the game. Wall jumping has been made so much easier. You simply jump against the 
 wall and pressing back and forth without having to use the analog stick. A new move of Mario that 
 really helps out and used effectively throughout is the Spin Attack which is done by shaking the 
 Wiimote. It's used to attack enemies, break through shards of crystal, and sometimes even raise 
 jumping. It can also deflect enemy projectile attacks right back at foes. 
  
  The controls are very precise. The Wii Remote is used for a several pointing functions. Shaking 
 the Wiimote not only does the spin attack. It can be used to collect Star Bits. Star Bits are found 
 everywhere. You just simply point at the bits you see and you'll collect it. It's really nice because 
 you know you don't have to walk all the way over to reach it. Just simply point. It becomes so 
 natural in only a few minutes time or less. Star Bits will help unlock galaxies and stunning enemies 
 by pointing at them and pressing B. Another reason for pointing is grabbing blue stars. Blue stars 
 will bring Mario up to it and will keep him there until grabbing another blue star and moving across 
 or until crossing a star or planet. Blue stars are never alone and will always come in clusters.
 
  
  Motion sensing with the Wiimote has done more than pointing and grabbing. Its motion sensing technology 
 is used for the activities found in some levels. Manta ray surfing is riding on top of a manta 
 ray and steering it with the Wiimote. Some levels you'll be on a ball and rolling it to its destination 
 also by using it with the Wiimote. Finally, you can push Mario around in a bubble and blowing it 
 through the planet with it. Each of these is so fun and intense you won't care if you die or not. 
 Even better, the controls continue to be responsive and don't play a problem.
  
  The boss battles in the game are fun but not really rememberable. Naturally you'll fight Bowser 
 a couple times. You fight Bowser Jr, a couple Kameks and other bosses which I won't spoil for you. 
 They're not too terribly challenging except in under specific conditions for a couple that I speak 
 about. 
  
  The quest for searching for stars will require transforming into different types of Mario's. Seriously, 
 a couple kinds include the Bee Mario, which transforms you into a bee and you briefly fly around. 
 Of course Fire Mario is implemented. For the first time ever, Fire Mario is 3d. Some people have 
 been waiting for that moment for over 20 years. It's finally here. There are a few other Mario 
 suits, each having their own unique effect and be used a few times over, but I won't spoil them 
 for you. 
  
  Comets. Several kinds of comets will be in the game. Comet levels are levels that have been completed 
 already but must be beaten again under specific conditions. An example is the Daredevil Comet. 
 This comet requires you to beat the level with only 1 health point. Purple Coin comets require 
 to search the galaxy and collect 100 purple coins. Note that this is taking place of the 100 coin 
 challenge back in the days of Super Mario 64. Except this time 100 purple coins will be laid out 
 and must collect all of them to get the star. These are only 2 of the many comet types to see in 
 Mario Galaxy.
  
  Though you can defeat Bowser the 3rd time with only 60 stars, something amazing will happen collecting 
 all 120 stars and will likely want you to play the game all over again with this "new feature." 
 As a matter of fact, you really don't beat the game with only 60 stars because you haven't been 
 to all the galaxies.
  
  Two player co-op is available. While one player controls the character, the other can use the Wiimote 
 to collect Star Bits, help them jump really high, and freeze enemies when holding on them pressing 
 the A button. It's not exciting but it is a nice idea and doesn't really get in the way.
  
  There are a couple issues that could've been worked on just a little bit. Sometimes the analog 
 stick can be a little confusing. I've gotten mildly nautious from it, but only playing it for an 
 extended period of time. This may or may not happen to you. Furthermore, occasionally you'll spot 
 a camera problem. Most of the time, pressing the D-pad can help you get out of these situations. 
 But there are still a few cases where the camera didn't go right, but it is rare.
  
  The graphics are the flat out no question about it BEST graphics so far shown on the Wii. No Wii 
 game competes with its artistic design. . It's possible to beat the game and not notice frame rate 
 problems. But no Wii game compares to this one in graphics. [Do not compare Wii graphics to XBOX 
 360 and PS3. Wii focuses on revolutionary techology while the other 2 stick to their old roots.
 
  
  The sound tracks on the game are ochestrated beautifully. There are remakes of songs back from 
 Super Mario Bros 1 and 3, and lots of new sound tracks are heard and sound right to the atmosphere. 
 Mario, Peach, and Rosalina all have very short, voice acting phrases heard every once in a while. 
 Nintendo continues to keep it minimal for the Mario series, which is actually a good thing.
  
  Collecting 120 stars will take about 15 hours or so. Doing it over again under the "new feature" 
 which I mentioned earlier and you're looking at about 25-30 hours of the game. You can always go 
 back and play and a level that you want to do again.
  
  So having a game with responsive controls, smart uses of the Wiimote, the best graphics the Wii 
 has yet, an amazing original sound track, multiple types of Mario's, flying through planets and 
 space, co-op mode, being a Mario game, there is no excuse of not owning this game. Even if you're 
 not a fan of Mario series, I"d recommend this to anyone, whether 6 year old or adult and everyone 
 in between. This will be looked back years from now and Super Mario Galaxy will be argued as the 
 greatest Wii game ever made.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezikiel2517
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2008 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Ah who can honestly say they haven't throughly enjoyed at least one Mario game that's been released 
 these past 20 years? And if that answer is yes then why the hell did you buy and play this one?? 
 LOL
  
  The Mario franchise has and always will be my favorite, Super Mario Brothers was the first console 
 game I ever played. Super Mario Brothers 2 made my christmas back in '89 (or was it 90? :-s lol) 
 Super Mario Brothers 3 was the only game I finished THEN bought. Then it was Super Mario World 
 in Christmas '91 (a fantastic game, but probably my least favorite in the franchise) Mario 64 was 
 my first taste of 3D and it completely blew me away, I still remember the smile it put on my face 
 just running around the very first stage for hours...... and how annoyed my friends were with me 
 "Just do something man, this is boring" LOL . Then of course there was Super Mario Sunshine which 
 took some heat but which I also absolutely loved.
  
  Now we have Mario Galaxy, and while I'm older and games don't quite have the impact they did on 
 me when I was younger this is still top notch. When I heard the classic Mario 3 theme the first 
 time I played Sweet Sweet Galaxy it still put a smile on my face and took me back almost 20 years 
 :)
  
  Not the best Mario game but yet another masterpiece!
  
  PROS:
  -Fantastic Graphics
  -Even better music
  -Great Variety
  -Sentimental Value
  
  CONS:
 
  -Difficulty a little unbalanced
  -May cause nausea lol
  -Purple coin challenge tend to be an exercise in monotony and frustration at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meandmewii
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  In Mario's latest adventure he travels through the cosmos in search of power stars to rescue Princess 
 Peach. During the quest Mario is no longer subject to a single direction of gravity. The little 
 plummer is effected by completely different physics than ever before seen as he flies from one 
 galaxy to the next. Each galaxy has its own unique design. All of which are colorful, creative, 
 and downright beautiful down to the last detail. Mario meets up with the many familiar enemies 
 that you would expect to see in a Mario game. Although the bosses are quite easy, it takes nothing 
 away from the fun and excitement of the game. The music is a clever compilation of past Mario tunes. 
 The sound effects are just as nice. While the game can be beat in about 15-20 hours, collecting 
 all of the 120 stars takes some time. This is without a doubt the best Mario game of all time, 
 and is up with the top games of all time. Super Mario Galaxy is a beautiful masterpiece of a video 
 game. If you have any interest in gaming, SMG is well worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hunter8man
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is a perfect example of what the Wii hardware is for. Not once does the Wii 
 control scheme feel gimmicky or needlessly added on. Everything flows seamlessly, and the levels 
 are very designed flawless. Graphics are about as good as you can expect for the Wii, but I love 
 the overall look of the game. I also loved the remixed Mario music, along with the original music 
 for the game. 
  
  If I have a slight problem with the game, it's the fact that it's not terribly challenging. But 
 then again, not many of the Mario games are. 
  
  Overall, the Mario game is an excellent addition to the Mario series. However, it's not the greatest 
 Mario game ever. It is a perfect fit on the Wii, and kudos to the designers for the control scheme. 
 Had it been done by someone else, it would've been almost unplayable. Let this be a glimmer of 
 hope for Wii owners that Nintendo realizes that not all Wii games have to have needless motion 
 controls tacked on in order to enjoy a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgtfoxy
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 1, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is yet another installment in the long line of Mario games. This game holds 
 the appeal because it fits to the standard WII format of a collection of minigames. Although this 
 is not a collection of minigames, it feels like it ism due to the large number of small an dissimilar 
 galaxies. You play as Mario (thats a shocker) and you travel to various galaxies collecting the 
 well known Power Stars.
  The controls aren't revolutionary, but they are functional and easy to use. It doesn't do much 
 to take advantage of the WII controller, but it is easy to use. Stick moves Mario, swing Wii-mote 
 to spin, "A" to jump.
  The graphics are pretty good for a game animated this way. Mario moves around pretty well (and 
 still refuses to say much) , and there are no confusing controls. The hardest thing is the gravity 
 switches.
  The revolutionary concept in Galaxy is the gravity changing. You walk all over mini-spheres and 
 stick to them because of gravitational pull. Sometimes gravity switches to pull you up. Sometimes 
 you walk on the sides of stars. The controls switch accordingly, which becomes very confusing.
 
  Overall, not an incredible game. It is so similar to Super Mario Sunshine (except that Galaxy 
 is in space) that you almost feel like it is a sequel. This game would not make my top 10 list. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sugarcandysin
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Hey, I got this game for Christmas. It's really good, and the graphics are really good! It's totally 
 recommended!!!
  
  Gameplay (9/10)
  It's the greatest platformer I've ever played! Well, actually, I usually don't play them. I just 
 hear alot of people telling me to buy this game, so I did! And it's good! Anyway, this game WILL 
 last for days! (I'm not even finished!) The game is really good, and is recommended to anyone who 
 owns a Wii! The camera CAN get a bit annoying sometimes because sometimes, an object can block 
 your view of Mario and it can get seriously annoying, but it's a problem that doesn't appear too 
 often, so don't let that stop you from buying this game!
  
  Graphics (10/10)
  Really cool visuals! The colors go together really well, and it's so cool to stare at! The graphics 
 are very bright, colorful, and beautiful! ^^
  
  Sound (9/10)
  Nice sounding music! Some music also makes me feel calmer. =)
  
  Value (10/10)
  Soooo recommended! 
 Great graphics, gameplay, EVERYTHING makes this game perfect and I recommend it!
  
  Reviewer's Tilt (10/10)
  Awesome game, awesome graphics, awesome EVERYTHING!
  
  -TOTAL SCORE- 
 (10/10)
  This game is the most awesomest ever! Buy it now please if you haven't!!! =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimybrit
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games ever made! Everything about is is awesome!
  Thank you Miyamoto for this masterpiece!!!!! I can't even describe how good it is in the review. 
 But here it is anyway.
  
  Graphics- 10 The graphics were amazing for a Wii game. Better than Viva Pinata for sure! There 
 is absolutely nothing wrong with the graphics. They really are that good.
  
  Story- 10 The story is frikkin awesome! Classic Mario with a space twist. Bowser capture Peach. 
 Mario save Peach. Awesome as always.
  
  Gameplay-10 All of the galaxies are different. Each one with a new challenge. Some are extremely 
 difficult and mind boggling.... But I like it.
  
  Controls-10 I really enjoyed the controls in this game. It's never unresponsive. They're sharp 
 and work perfect.
  
  Overall-10 You guessed it! SMG gets a 10 out of 10. This is a must must buy. If you don't have 
 a Wii, buy one and get this game. It's really that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The1BigBoss
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  Mario Galaxy is the newest Mario game in the main series. The visuals are flat out amazing. This 
 game is the best looking Wii game to date, but thats not all this game has. The platforming is 
 far beyond anything you've ever done in other games. From fly throught space to gravity changing 
 coridores this game has everything. The level design is clever and imaginative. The sound is what 
 you would expect out of a Mario game. However I still wish Nintendo would at least give the npc's 
 a voice, and not just a word or two like this game. However this game is near perfect. The Wii 
 controls arent complicated and prefect for this game. However although easy to pickup this game 
 is by no means easy. The game starts easy enough but it gradually picks up in difficulty. There 
 is pletty of challange for hardcores gamers such as myself. You only need 60 stars to beat the 
 game but there are 121 in total. To unlock the secret playable character you need to get 120 stars 
 with Mario. Then you need to get 120 stars with the secret chracter. And after that you can get 
 the final 121st star. This means there is plenty to do in this game. This game is a huge step forward 
 for 3-D platforming and Mario games. I cant wait for whats next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smasher_crazy
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  earlier on in the year i thot this was goin to be an average game, but near its release, i decided 
 to go for it (even got the galaxy coin) . the results: best platformer EVER made, none wil be better, 
 it's flat out the best. and im not surprised it won GAME OF THE YEAR '07!!!!!!!! to start it out, 
 u will not find any planets and worlds more creative and fun to play in any other game in history, 
 my fave is the ring ocean one and the toys one. this game blends in old styles of play from the 
 side scrolling super mario bros, and modern, gravity-defying gameplay. the most beautiful game 
 on wii, and quite the funnest too. WAT?!? there's a boo mario?!? yes, yes there is ,a nd it's an 
 awsome costume!! the costumes are so good, u cant have a favorite. going from bee mario to spring 
 mario, it's just the best. put in the best orchestrated music, gravity-defying gameplay, the best 
 lineup of costumes, the gigantic and creative worlds, stunning realistic graphics (for a wii game) , 
 funny foes to destroy, 120 stars to collect, riding a koopa shell underwater in 3-D, princess Rosalina, 
 and the cute little lumas and all the other characters in this game, and wat do u got?? the greatest 
 3-D platformer ever made, and the ' 07 GAME OF THE YEAR AWARD!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigfish2
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2008 1:27 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 was amazing and with Super Mario sunshine everyone expected the same again. Sadly 
 it wasn't to be and whilst Sunshine wasn't a bad game it couldn't live up to Super Mario 64. With 
 the announcement of Super Mario Galaxy the hype grew again, could it live up to Super Mario 64 
 and do what Mario Sunshine couldn't. The answer is yes, it can and it has.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is a breath of fresh air to the Platforming genre. For ears it's been festering 
 in a pit of despair but now it could be on for a comeback because Galaxy has completely reinvented 
 the genre. With 120 stars to collect (121 in Luigi mode) a variety of levels, loads of power ups 
 and masses of fun and replay value there isn't a single flaw in Super Mario Galaxy.
  
  Once again Princess Peach has been kidnapped by Bowser and it's up to the player as Mario to save 
 the day. Sounds familiar, well it is the same as almost every other Mario game in existance. However 
 when the gameplay is of such a high quality the story is inconsequential. The game starts with 
 a beautiful cutscene that adds with Mario being blown into space. He awakes to find himself in 
 the Lunar observatory which serves as the games hub. It is inhabited by Princess Rosalyn and creatures 
 known as Luma and both will help you on your adventure. Levels are accessed via terraces which 
 allow you to shoot into space and visit each galaxy. Galaxies feature either one or three levels.
 
  
  Whilst there 120 stars to collect you only need 60 to actually save Peach and getting 60 may be 
 pretty simple but getting all 120 is extremely tricky. Each level has one main star which you get 
 at the end of the level but many have extra stars that can be found in an assortment of different 
 ways. Each star is a thrill to find and the sheer variety of levels on offer is staggering. You'll 
 never grow bored because Galaxy constantly throws something new and exciting at you every level.
 
  
  The key new mechanic in Galaxy is gravity. You'll have to master the changes in gravity if you 
 are to complete the game and use it to your advantage to find every star. You're always challenged 
 to think outside the box which is something not many games offer. As well as gravity other mechanics 
 are the collection of coins as you'd expect but also the collection of starbits. These can be used 
 to shoot at opponents or buy things from Luma such as new galaxies. The Luma love to feed on them 
 so keep that in mind.
  
  As with every Mario game power-ups play a big part. Most come in the form of mushrooms but there 
 are also invincibility stars, fire flowers and ice flowers. Each adds something new to the gameplay 
 mix and each is used at exactly the right time to further the gameplay. They never feel like they're 
 there just for the sake of it. 
  
  Th graphics are the best yet seen on Wii and are truly stunning. They always keep up to a very 
 high standard and never falter in either cutscenes or actual game play. Sound effects are used 
 in all the right places and are iconic of the Mario franchise. These start to create a feeling 
 of nostalgia for seasoned Mario players and the musical score at times just ramps that up to the 
 max. The music is amazing and creates a feel to the game that is undeniably sensational.
  
  There is actually only one problem with Galaxy and it's so small that it really isn't a problem 
 at all. At times the camera can be a bit dodgy when you try and set it to being behind you. This 
 is very rare and only annoys for a few seconds so the game is in no way harmed however it does 
 stop it from being perfect.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy turns platforming on it's head with mindboggling gravity physics, exciting new 
 power-ups, amazing graphics, charm and creativity and a fun factor so high you won't believe it. 
 Galaxy is perilously close to perfect.
  
  Score= 98%
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildcat2000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Remember that old 70's song? Thats what I thought of when I started getting into the game. The levels 
 in this game are truly fantasy dream worlds. Everything from the star filled skys, the beautiful 
 colors, and the odd twists and turns make the game seem like something you would only see in your 
 dreams. The overall presentation and graphics are simply wonderful.
  
  Now lets get to the gameplay, its basicly the same as 'Super Mario 64' and 'Sunshine' except with 
 a few Wii controls. This is not entirely a bad thing mainly because the objectives and how you achieve 
 them are alot more fun than in '64' or 'Sunshine'. Also, even though your still just collecting stars 
 it feels more rewarding because since the game takes place in space, collecting stars makes alot 
 more sense than it did in the two previous Mario adventures, plus there are plenty of gameplay elements 
 from the 2D Marios that should have been there in '64' to begin with.
  
  You may not realise but 'Super Mario 64' and 'Galaxy' have one big thing in common... thier level 
 designs. Remember in '64' (and Iv mentioned this in my SM64 review) the levels were small obsticle 
 course like areas with a wide open void all around so if you fell over you died, same here, though 
 the levels (galaxies) are bigger they are still kinda small with 4-5 individual smaller planets 
 you jump too but if you fall off you get sucked into a black hole... and this is my first complaint 
 about the game.
  
  Why have the levels, in these past 3 Mario games, been small obsticle course like areas? Why cant 
 we have a full 3D Mushroom Kingdom to run around in and explore? Instead we get these small levels 
 within one big hub area.
  
  Control for the most part is just fine, but sometimes Mario himself can really screw you over. This 
 was one of my problems with 'Super Mario 64', since Mario can somersault into the air you may flick 
 the analog stick at the wrong time either flipping in the wrong direction or killing Mario... perfect 
 example... in a race with Shadow Mario I beat him to the star, I didn't quite jump directly on the 
 star so I qulickly moved the analog stick forward and jumped once more, but Mario did a somersault 
 instead which resulted in Shadow Mario getting the star first since Mario accidently somersaulted 
 in the wrong direction. They could easily fix this problem by just changing the way you perform 
 a somersault, because the current way is just too sensitive.
  
  Even just basic jumping can sometimes be annoying since Mario needs a running start just to make 
 a decent jump, because of this you often feel like Mario might not make it across a cliff. As for 
 the Wii controls, which we know just make Mario spin for the most part, are fine but the radius of 
 the spin attack is kinda small forcing you to get dangerously close to some enemies.
  
  As mentioned before, there are plenty of gameplay elements from the 2D classics, most obvious of 
 course are the new costumes... which are cool and all but serve no real purpose except to beat the 
 levels in which they are found in, where as in 'Super Mario Bros. 3' each costume was found through 
 out the entire game and could help you in each level.
  
  Another thing is, the game can be quite easy at times, plus thier are plenty of 1-ups lying around... Princess 
 Peach even sends you 5 at one time every now and then.
  
  Sound is good, which includes sound effects and music from the classics, the only thing I don't like 
 are the sound effects that come through the Wiimote's speaker... their too loud and annoying
  
  Lastly, and this might just be a personal complaint, but why are we still reading text when the 
 characters talk?! It was understandable in '64' and forgivable in 'Sunshine'... but come on!!!... this 
 is the Wii!!! Get some voice actors for crying out loud!!!
  
  Despite my complaints it really is a fun game and the fact that Nintendo made the effort to include 
 elements from the classics is more than welcome.
  
  Bottom Line, its an enjoyable game but not the best it could have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmaccini
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2007 11:13 pm PT
Review:  This game was flat out amazing! I noticed in the final cut scene how spectacular the graphics truly 
 could be on the Wii when they showed some close-ups of both Mario and Bowser. More than that the 
 game play was exactly what any Super Mario fan could ask for without it being the same old Mario.
 
  
  There are so many possibilities in the game that make it extremely fun even for someone who has 
 finished the main story.
  
  It did seem a little too easy at some points, however that was made up for by just how fun the 
 game was in general.
  
  Overall I don't even know if I can think of a single thing that anyone could not like about this 
 game unless they did not like either Nintendo or Mario in the first place.
  
  Buy this game immediately. It will be a classic forever. And if you don't have a Wii, maybe you 
 need to think about getting one just for this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vicviper2345
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  If there were ever was a must-own wii game, THIS IS THE ONE.
  The plot is rather simple. Mario is on his way to see Princess Peach,
  And on his way there, 
 all hell breaks loose. Bowser attacks the mushroom kingdom, and literally rips Peach's castle out 
 of the ground. Mario is sent out into space, and the Story begins. But that's not the part i wanna 
 cover.
  The reason people think SMG is amazing, is the level design. and I pretty much have to agree with 
 them. You'll notice that there are very few enemies is SMG. The reason: gravity is your enemy. 
 The main threat in this game is gravity itself. That's a new twist to the game series. But the 
 thing that caught my attention was the GRAPHICS. It's like a Xbox 360 game. Now for the downsides. 
 The only complaints I have with this game, is that some segments are very cheap and unfair (I can't 
 explain at the moment,
  and ONCE AGAIN, Bowser is TOO EASY! Why do they have to make the last boss of the game, the easiest 
 boss in the game? Anyway, If you hawe a Wii, This game is highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: striljr
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  This my friends would have to be the greatest Mario adventure of all times. I enjoyed Mario 3 for 
 NES and like I said this galaxy adeventure is as great this that one. Absolutley amazing!!! Coudln't 
 of asked for a better Mario game to enjoy! mario Sunshine was fun, but dissapointed me and some 
 of my friends a bit. Mario 64 was great and this is a more epic and amazingly astounding game that 
 will put a smile on just about any Mario fan out there! The best parts about this game is there's 
 alot to do like you can turn into Bee Mario, Ghost Mario, Frosty Mario, Springy Mario, and of course 
 what would be a Mario game without the classic fire ball throwing Mario. This I would have to say 
 is not only one of the best Mario games for the Wii, but it's ONE OF THE BEST MARIO GAMES EVER 
 MADE!!! Period!!! It lets Mario take the title of Wii like Mario Brothers 3 did for NES. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genstar2
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2007 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Warning, this review contains spoilers. They are minor spoilers, but spoilers none the less. If 
 you want this game to be completely fresh, don't read this. 
  
  
  
  When Super Mario Galaxy was first announced, it was advertised as the first true worthy successor 
 to Super Mario 64. This statement could not be any more true. When you start the game, you are 
 in some kind of festival in front of the recognizable Castle from the 64 classic. As you head toward 
 it, you are greeted by one of the most cinematic and jaw dropping cut scenes ever burned into a 
 disc of a video game. It's incredible, dramatic, and detailed. While there may not be a lot of 
 cut scenes in the game (all of them are either at the beginning, end, or any of the tree times 
 you fight bowser) , however, the cut scenes are incredible. 
  
  But cut scenes aren't the only thing that make a game good. The Gameplay also plays a part, in 
 fact, it's the most important part. Well, I'm pleased to announce that as well as having some of 
 the best cut scenes of any game ever, it has gameplay to match. First thing I should mention is 
 that the gameplay is very similar to that of Super Mario 64, which is what it should be like. I 
 really hate how they got rid of some of Mario's greatest moves in Sushine such as the back flip, 
 long jump, punching, and crouching. All these moves are put into galaxy, thankfully, and they are 
 all executed the same way. Except for the punching. That is done by giving a quick flick of the 
 wiimote. This is actually much better than hitting the B button. It is also better because instead 
 of punching forward like in the 64 game, Mario does it in a circular motion, which also causes 
 him to reach hire areas, adding a new strategic element to the game, and a welcome one at that.
 
  
  Speaking of motion sensitivity, this game has a lot of uses of the wii controller, all of them 
 good and they make the game a better. aside from controlling Mario, you also control a cursor that 
 is on screen by aiming with the wii remote. If you put this cursor over these new power-ups call 
 starbits, you will collect them. If you drag the cursor over an enemy and tap the B button, you 
 will shoot the enemy, stunning them. Starbits are a good weapon in this game, and they also serve 
 as a form of currency. You can use these starbits to buy more levels. Also, if you collect 50 of 
 them, you get a 1-up. But enough about starbits. Using the spin attack and collecting/shooting 
 starbits are the only uses of the wiimote in this game frequently . The game uses the wiimote in 
 other cases, but they are done rarely, though they are all fun to execute. Some of these activities 
 include: Shaking the wiimote to launch Mario out of a star-shaped canon, pulling back on these 
 strange gooey like things that Mario gets stuck to, letting go, and watching the Italian plumber 
 fly off, Moving a cursor over a star an taping A to make it pull Mario in, tilting the wii mote 
 left or right to control a manta ray surfer, holding the wiimote straight upwards to control Mario 
 standing on a rolling sphere, shaking the wiimote repeatedly to make Mario climb a vine, and unscrewing 
 a screw out of the ground by shaking the wiimote. 
  
  The game also introduces new types of levels that are in space, as you might have heard about by 
 now. These levels are very fun because they involve utilizing the gravity affects to Make Mario 
 walk upside down. This Is another thing that makes super Mario Galaxy so great: A huge amount of 
 diversity. You have levels of all different types, including a haunted house level, a desert level, 
 a tropical island level, a lava level, an ice level, a water level, a space level, a candy level, 
 a bee level, a toy level, a garden level, and more. It's insane. This game even includes parts 
 that have a 2d side scrolling like touch to them. Damn, if Twilight Princess was a love letter 
 to anyone who ever enjoyed a Zelda game, Than Super Mario Galaxy is truly a love letter to anyone 
 who has ever enjoyed a Mario game. It is truly a masterpiece. On top of all that, this game has 
 more power ups and better power ups than other Mario game in history. You have the green 1-up mushroom, 
 coins, and the invincible starman returning from previous installments, the bee suit, letting Mario 
 fly short distances, the boo suit, letting Mario go through walls, the spring suit, letting Mario 
 spring into the air, The red starman, letting Mario fly, The fire flower, which lets Mario shoot 
 fire balls for the first time in 3d, and the ice Flower, letting Mario walk on water. 
  
  Well how does the game look, you may ask. Well, it is the best looking game on the wii to date. 
 Everything runs at solid frame rate, there are next to no loading times, everything is well detailed, 
 and it's basically gorgeous overall. The game has the infamous voices of Peach and bowser jr. return, 
 but they aren't there as much as they did in sunshine, since there is less of an emphasis on story 
 line. Mario sounds like Mario sounds like Mario, as he should. No complaints there. All the sound 
 effects sound pretty good, and in terms of music, this game is masterful. It has beautiful orcastrated 
 soundtrack, which is incredibly fitting, and remixes of music from super mario bros. 1, 3, world, 
 and 64. It is just crazy. I don't know how any game could top the music of this game. It's brilliance. 
 I love this game so much.
  
  So how's the value? Do you get the bang for your buck if you buy it for fifty dollars? Oh undeniably! 
 The game features 242 stars in total. That's 121 for Mario, and 121 for Luigi. Don't get me wrong, 
 though. You have to do the same missions with Luigi that you do with Mario. You unlock Luigi after 
 you get 120 stars with Mario. Luigi can jump better than Mario but has less traction. The difficulty 
 in this game should please both casuals and hardcore gamers. It could please casuals because you 
 only need 60 stars to beat it. It pleases hardcore gamers because some of the optional stars are 
 very challenging. 
  
  Overall, Super Mario Galaxy is nothing short of Perfect. It's got the full package, gameplay, graphics, 
 music, sound, and replay value. It's quality is amazing. Stop reading this review right now and 
 buy the damn game, if you have not already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkrul3s
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off buy saying this is one of the greatest games of all time and without a doubt the 
 best Mario game of all time!!!
  
  Gameplay: This game does not force you to do any strange Wii motions at all. There are some places 
 where you use the Wii-remote and those places are done flawlessly!!! The rest of the time you are 
 running and jumping as you try to collect the grand stars!!! Don't worry about always being in 
 space because you are even going through jungles, deserts, snowy places, etc.!!!
  
  Graphics: This game will shut up anyone who says the Wii can't produce gorgeous graphics. This 
 game is an artistic marterpiece and the frame rate never drops for even a second. 
  
  Sound: The music is incredible in this game!!! Some of the best music of all time!!! There are 
 the Mario themes we know and love and there are some new songs that are just as good!!!
  
  Replay Value: The replay value in this game is incredible. You will find yourself playing some 
 of your favorite missions and levels over and over again. You will even have fun by just exploring 
 each enviroment you ar in.
  
  Overall: This game is without a doubt the best Wii game to date. There is no possible way you can 
 hate this game. If you are wondering what kept this game from getting a perfect 10/10 it is because 
 even though there are some really challenging levels the overall game is just too easy.
  
  Now stop reading this review and go buy this game now!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leonchamp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  I was dubious leading up to it's release ( as i prefer 2D mario games like New super mario bros 
 on the DS, over say Mario 64) , yet after just 30 mins of playing, I realised that i was playing 
 one of the best developed and fun games since, well never actually. I am only a quarter of the 
 game in, yet i would say, IT IS THE BEST MARIO GAME EVER. I normally at this point would tell you 
 all about the game, but this time i'm not! Your just going to go out and buy it and then you can 
 come back here (when you can pull yourself away from it) and you too can tell everybody how great 
 it is. Enjoy!!
  MARIO MARIO MARIO!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiamTheGammer2
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  It's a challenge familiar to developers around the world. How do you create a sequel in a hugely 
 popular and iconic series that actually takes a significant step forward, without losing what made 
 the series great in the first place? Thankfully, Nintendo found a solution, and it can be summed 
 up in this one-line, Hollywood-style pitch: "It's Mario, but in space." Thankfully, what could 
 have - in the hands of a lesser development team - been a desperate gambit to inject some new life 
 into the series has turned out to be the complete opposite. Setting this game in space has given 
 Nintendo free rein to throw traditional level designs out the window, and to focus solely on fun 
 and challenge. In short, Nintendo has redefined the genre, and has done it with style and vivacity.
 
  
  In a refreshing break from the norm, the game opens with Mario down on his luck. It seems his last 
 (little-known) adventure - Mario Gets Loaded - ended in a major downer. The kind of downer where 
 you wake up in the gutter, brown bottle in hand, with three days of vomit-caked stubble. Nah, just 
 kidding - it's the usual fare. Mario is on his way to Peach's castle when Bowser, at the head of 
 an armada of ships, pulls Peach's entire castle out of the ground (again) and whisks it away to 
 the centre of the Universe. Cue another Mario rescue mission.
  
  The difference this time, however, is that Mario soon befriends the Lumas, a race of celestial 
 star-shaped beings, who take him to their towering, multi-tiered spaceship/observatory. Using this 
 as a base, Mario must rescue Power Stars and Grand Stars from a whole series of solar systems (where 
 each orbiting location is - confusingly enough - called a 'Galaxy') . As in Super Mario 64, as he 
 collects more Power Stars, more galaxies become available, while the Grand Stars - earned by defeating 
 the boss in each solar system, are used to power up the spaceship. Collect them all and the ship 
 will have enough power to journey to the centre of the Universe to rescue Peach. Or, as Rosalina, 
 the ship's mysterious leader calls her, Mario's "special one."
  
  As you might expect, it's an excuse for the action, but the familiar hub system works wonderfully 
 well, and you'll always have a host of missions to choose from at any one time. While many of the 
 galaxies have a number of stars to be found, there are a heap of one-shots as well, and it all 
 adds up to a dizzying array of gameplay. Indeed, it's this flexibility in overall structure that 
 has allowed Nintendo to really have fun with every level. Forget the regimented eight red coins 
 and 100 gold coins missions of previous games - in Super Mario Galaxy every star is distinct, and 
 any concept, no matter how quirky, can be turned into a level. The result is level design that's 
 often a joyous departure from the norm and gratifyingly eclectic.
  
  Of course, the main reason the level design is so interesting is the simple fact that the game's 
 set in space, so there's no context required for each level, nor do different sections even need 
 to be linked. Simply beat one section then zoom through the air to the next one. It's liberating, 
 and somewhat counter-intuitively, not at all disjointed, largely thanks to the underlying Mario-ness 
 of both the gameplay and the visual design.
  
  Indeed, Super Mario Galaxy is very much built on the foundation of the previous games. All of Mario's 
 moves are present and accounted for - the triple jump, the u-turn jump, wall jumps, the backflip 
 and butt stomp, you're just using them in environments that range from familiar to wildly different. 
 Many of the galaxies, for instance, are comprised of a series of planetoids with their own gravity. 
 Simply being able to run all the way around a planet's surface, and jump from planet to planet 
 gives this game a completely new outlook on the concept of what a platformer can be. Puzzles and 
 challenges in this brave new world are often self-contained, bite-sized nuggets of gameplay to 
 beat then move on. 
  
  Other sections are presented from side-on; 2D challenges where Mario must climb a sheer wall, using 
 wall jumps and tornados for height, or where gravity changes dynamically, again altering the way 
 you explore and interact with the environment. Still other levels see Mario grappling from point 
 to point through space, or running through an environment where platforms are snapped in ahead 
 of him, or where the world only exists in roaming spotlights surrounded by an inky black void. 
 Then there are the many and varied boss and mini-boss encounters, which are never anything less 
 than a joy to play even if they are generally a little on the easy side.
  
  It's a design tour de force, and so intuitive that you'll breeze through the first seven or eight 
 hours, with the challenge only stepping up after that. Along the way Mario will also swim and fly, 
 and transform into different variations, such as Spring Mario and Ice Mario. There are just so 
 many little nuggets of invention to be relished in this title. A couple of rooms in the game, for 
 instance, see Mario running up the walls and across the ceiling, following a pattern of notes which 
 bang out a classic Mario tune.
  
  While Super Mario Galaxy can be finished with 60 stars, it's the other 60 that will prove to be 
 the real challenge in this game. Not only are there a huge number of hidden stars to find, but 
 Nintendo has also included a number of tweaked challenges, in the form of 'Prankster Comets' which 
 move from galaxy to galaxy. You may have to beat a level with faster moving enemies and platforms, 
 beat a mini-boss with only one life, race a mirror Mario to the finish line, or simply beat a level 
 within a time limit. They're a fantastic inclusion, and you'd be surprised how much more challenging 
 levels become with modifiers. Then there are the Trial Galaxies and the role certain staple characters 
 play in the game, but you can discover those yourselves.
  
  This is a game with countless styles of challenges - the old school mixed irresistibly with the 
 new, where it feels like there's a fresh concept, or a fresh take on an old concept around every 
 corner. It's almost embarrassing how many new ideas and inventive touches Nintendo's EAD Tokyo 
 team has managed to pack into the one game. Embarrassing for other developers that is.
  
  It's also embarrassing how effortlessly the camera system works. For a game that's constantly playing 
 with your orientation and the layout of its spaces, it's amazing that a largely automated camera 
 system is so seamless. Indeed, it's very rare that you can't see what you need to see, with only 
 a couple of hiccoughs when swimming and flying.
  
  The controls have been very cleverly implemented. Motion sensing, for instance, has only been used 
 where it will enhance the feel of the game. A flick of the wrist to spin Mario on the spot, for 
 instance, gives the controls a gratifyingly tactile touch. Whether you're flicking to send a Goomba 
 spinning away on its head (which can then be followed up with a gorgeously animated punt kick) , 
 flicking at the apex of a jump for a little more height, flicking to send Mario spinning around 
 a wandering vine, or flicking at a star jump point to send Mario careening through space to a new 
 area, it feels natural and necessary. The game also makes great use of the Wiimote's infrared capabilities, 
 with the pointer used to latch on to grapple points in the sky, to aim cannons, to pull Mario back 
 and vault him from Sling Pods, and, of course, for collecting Star Bits. It's all effortlessly 
 intuitive.
  
  While Super Mario Galaxy doesn't have the eight red coins or 100 coins missions (well, not in every 
 level at least) , it's every bit a collect 'em up. In fact, the collection component is more compelling 
 and integral than ever, thanks to a couple of smart decisions. First of all, coins are tied into 
 Mario's health. Most of the time he'll only have three health segments, so nabbing a coin or two 
 whenever you take a hit is paramount. Secondly, the world is full of Star Bits! These bit-sized 
 nuggets of snacky happiness are collected by running over them, or - more likely - moving your 
 on-screen pointer over them. There's something so innately satisfying about hoovering up every 
 Star Bit you can find with the Wiimote, and Star Bits can be used in a number of ways, such as 
 shooting them at (some) enemies to stun them and feeding hungry Lumas to open up new planets and 
 galaxies. Oh, and apparently they taste like honey. In a deft touch, EAD Tokyo even gives you some 
 control over your collecting. Headbop a Goomba, for instance, and you'll get a coin, whereas using 
 the spin attack then punt will net you Star Bits. Nice.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is far and away the prettiest game on the Wii, and a serious wake up call for 
 most other developers making games for this system. It's bursting at the seams with life and colour, 
 with the many bosses and mini-bosses in particular a real visual highlight. Ranging from a planetoid 
 dwarfing mech to a giant purple-furred mole with a spiked turtle shell helmet that ploughs through 
 the earth in his pursuit of you, EAD Tokyo has outdone itself. Bowser has never looked better either; 
 imposing and weighty, his crop of rich red hair waving as he moves. He looks so good, in fact, 
 that we'll forgive Nintendo for rinsing and repeating your encounters with him.
  
  Mario, also, has never looked better, and the game worlds are littered with visual touches both 
 small and large, from the excellent enemy animations through to epic settings, such as a world 
 where Mario is navigating a series of moving platforms that are arrayed around a spiralling mass 
 of water being sucked into a black hole. It's simply stunning.
  
  The way the visuals are utilised is a huge part of the game's visual appeal too. The way Mario 
 flies in to each level, and the frequent soaring boosts between areas are just a great way to show 
 off the game's visual style. Whether you're being shot from the bottom of the sea, up and out across 
 a gorgeous tropical vista, or you're rocketing just above the lava covered surface of a planet, 
 jets of red hot magma arcing back and forth above you, it's a real showcase for the system and 
 for the visual design. Not only that, it's also a clear statement by Nintendo. The frequent, breathtaking 
 flights are reflective of the freedom in the game, of the way the company has cast off the shackles 
 of the platform genre to offer something new and exhilarating.
  
  The soundtrack is pretty damn good too, running from classic remixes and old school melodies through 
 to more orchestral arrangements. A couple of scores are less interesting than others - one in particular 
 sounded like it had been pulled straight from an awards show, its strings and flutes sitting somewhere 
 between 'sweeping' and 'muzak'. Still, it's clear that the team has had fun with the soundtrack. 
 One section sees Mario running atop a ball (think Super Mario Ball) , and the faster he moves, the 
 faster the music plays.
  
  If we absolutely had to find faults with this game, we'd say that (as mentioned earlier) the camera 
 isn't as seamless when swimming and flying as it is when on or above land. It's a small quibble 
 though, and when you consider that you're often swimming around small globes of water, understandable. 
 We'd also say that while the game generally does a good job educating the player (whether through 
 instruction, or more subtle game design, such as putting a butt stompable stone near an enemy that 
 can only be knocked out of its hidey hole with a butt stomp) , we don't remember seeing any explanation 
 of many of Mario's core abilities like triple jumps, backflips and long jumps. For anyone who has 
 played a 3D Mario game before that's fine, but newcomers may need to consult the manual. See? Pretty 
 damn hard to find flaws.
  
  Rapturous. There is simply no better word to describe this game. It's a joy to play from start 
 to finish; jam-packed full of both inventive new ideas and nods to Mario past, with a difficulty 
 curve that climbs slowly and steadily. Rest assured  you won't have any trouble beating Bowser, 
 but finding all 120 stars will be a challenge for even the most hardened gamers. Not only is this 
 the best game on Wii, it's also the best platformer ever made.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hero254
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  When I asked for Super Mario Galaxy for Christmas, I decided not to get to any vids of the game 
 until I got it. Let me tell you, I was not disapointed! I experienced the ride & I yearned for 
 more. I was pretty hooked on it, from the start, to the finish. That didn't mean I'll beat it perfectly, 
 but I'll beat it. The story was, good, too. It tells a 22- year old story, & blasts it to Outer 
 Space. The controls are intuitive, as well. There's the normal controls, which are the same as 
 before, but with limited buttons, there's no combat controls except spinning (which you shake the 
 Wii remote.) . I'm not saying it's bad, but is a bit of a problem if you played nothing but Mario 
 64. What makes it up is that there are other innovative ways of control. The graphics are enhanced 
 & awesome! I was so dumbfounded about those graphics! The music was the best. In my reviews, The 
 music give high scores & these orchistrated remixes of classic Mario games are tight. If you have 
 a Wii, I won't recommend this title, I REQUIRE this title. It's one of the best Mario Games, & 
 I want you all to play it. PLAY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fosterscheese
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 5:36 am PT
Review:  Well, personally I don't own a Wii, but I have played Super Mario Galaxy, and I loved it. The game 
 is highly addictive, no matter what anyone says, and all I can say is that Wii owners will not 
 make a mistake if they buy this game. Mario comes back in his latest adventure and it is more fun 
 that ever. Exploring the Mario galaxy is fun and exciting, and I really enjoyed playing it, and 
 the Wii console and the controllers make it really fun to play. Like I said before, I'm not a Wii 
 owner, but this game is extremely exciting, fun and interesting. A new Wii 3D platformer is just 
 what the gamers needed. And, Mario makes a great comeback with this new game, and I recommend it 
 for everyone. This doesn't mean that they should buy a Wii just to play Super Marion Galaxy, but 
 if they can buy it, and they own a Wii, this game is a "Must Have". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackdog144
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Its the sequel to to super mario 64 and it does live up to the hype. You play as mario (obviously) 
 and try to rescue peach from bower. Only this time your not limited to one world. You have many 
 worlds and galaxies to explore and have fun it. 
  
  The goal is to collect all the stars, a total of 120 of them, but you can beat the game with only 
 60 of them. 
  
  The graphics are amazing for the wii and really show off its potential. The music is really good 
 to. It puts you in that "mario" type of mood. Controls are great except for when you swim and go 
 underwater. Those are really complicated and could be hard to get used to. One thing that makes 
 me mad though is the fact that you can die a lot and have to do everything over and over and over 
 again.
  
  over all this game is great, i cant seem to put it down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maxned
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Theres probably no point of me writing a review of this game now, as over 400 people have already 
 written one.. but yea. Here it is.
  
  First of all, Nintendo's VC support, to me at least is pretty bad. WHY CANT THEY PUT IN ANY MORE 
 GOD DAMN N64 GAMES. This means there are almost no platformers except for Super Mario 64 and side-scrolling 
 Marios.
  Then Nintendo releases Super Mario Galaxy which is AWESOME.
  
  Its the basic story, Peach gets kidnapped by Bowser, she probably gets sexually molested.. i mean 
 what else does Bowser do with her....
  ANYWAYS Mario gets sent off into the cosmos where he finds over 120 stars and stomps goombas
 
  
  Graphics: 10 (wii's best looker)
  
  Sound: 10 (awesome music)
  
  Control: 10 (motion controls always work and buttons are mapped very well)
  
  Tilt: 9.5 (while 
 the auto-camera usually works really well, sometimes it gets in your way and you cant see what 
 ur doing)
  
  Gameplay: 10 (An extremely fun and immersive game)
  
  Longevity: 9.5 (TONS of stars to get and a sweet unlockable at the end. However, I don't particularly 
 like the comets.
  
  
  Final Score: 10 (while it has a teensy bit of flaws, the sheer fun of this game makes up for it. 
 Its just so fun to go through and get all of the stars.)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ltoreo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is not only a must have for all mario fans, but for anyone who owns a Wii. I 
 beat Mario 64 when it was out for Nintendo 64, and i beat Mario 64 when it was out for the Nintendo 
 DS, and i must say that this game is by far the best mario game i have ever played. Super Mario 
 Galaxy is one of the most original games i have ever played in my entire life. The game has amazing 
 graphics and very good art work. It has all the classic things you would want in a Mario game, 
 bosses take 3 shots to kill, you do things for penguins, chain chomps, even Lugi makes an apperance. 
 The only bad thing about this game is it doesn't say "Get Shine" when you get a star, like the 
 older games. Super Mario Galaxy has great use of the Wii Remote and even has a 2 player feature. 
 Overall, Super Mario Galaxy is one of the best games out there, and is a must have for all Wii 
 owners 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ms555
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  When i played Mario 64, i was stunned. However, over time, the game seamed dull and also slightly 
 repetitive. It was still a great game, but there came a time when it just got old! I play the game, 
 and walk into the castle with that repetitive music in the background, and play the fire world 
 over and over again to eventually get bored and push it aside. The game was a masterpeice.... for 
 its time. Later, it was old news to me and i have been waiting for something to follow up to its 
 greatness.
  For a long time , I have been stuck to ideas of Halo 3 and Assassin's Creed, acknowledging but 
 caring less for the release of Mario Galaxy. To my surprise, after a sereis of events, I ended 
 up getting a Wii. WHen i read the astounding reviews of the game, i had hope that maybe that missing 
 place in me could be refilled with this game. I purchased this game instead of getting Zelda or 
 Metroid, pushed it into the Wii , and grabbed the controller. I expected this game to be good , 
 but eventually get old. I expected to play this game, get stuck in maybe the Boo world, and just 
 get bored and give up. ............. I was wrong! This game is a masterpeice and the true definition 
 of a next gen game. It implements so many different an unexplored ideas, and, in a way, also implements 
 the wii to its full potential. The game shows great graphics, and very addictive gameplay. Every 
 level is different, and the game itself will grab you and pull you in. It will NEVER get old as 
 you play, and you will never get too frustrated. Frankly, i do not thinkt the developers were searching 
 for ways to get harcore gamers attracted, but ways to create the best gaming experience and just 
 let the players have fun. It is well "polished" and throws tons of extras to keep your interest. 
 Not only will you play the adventure, but there are prankster comets that boost the difficulty 
 of certain levels in different ways. Plus, you will run into Luigi, who tries to help you on your 
 quest but ends into an entertaining game of hide and seek where you must find Luigi's location 
 and rescue him. There is a side story book on the side and a weak but still good co op mode. There 
 are also side levels to do, and a search for three green stars that lead you to another galaxy! 
 Plus, this game probably has at least 50 boss levels !! No joke! Each boss level is unique in its 
 own way. From trying to throw koopa shells to swnging explosive Boos, etc. Like I said, this game 
 is not frustrating, it is fun! There are also side games like racing on sting rays, balancing on 
 balls, blowing yourself in a bubble across a poison swamp, and more which use special ways of using 
 motion sense. My only complaint or warning is that, if you do not control your addiction to this 
 game and put it down once in a while, you could beat it within 1-2 days. There are 121 stars (yes 
 not 120, there is an extra one) , and only 60 needed to beat the game. My advice, get all the stars 
 along the way.
  
  This game is not an amazinf masterpeice just because it proved to be a good game. It is a great 
 one because I do not think any sereis in 2007 has improved and livede up the hype as much as SMG 
 did. No other game was able to be as polished as this one is . A round of applause to Nintendo
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lurker22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  First came Super Mario 64, which was mostly, the best Mario game for the N64. Next came Super Mario 
 Sunshine, which was a good game from the latest Mario game for the Gamecube. Now comes this game. 
 Super Mario Galaxy for the Wii. This game is pretty much what you wanted to be, better graphics, 
 easy controls, new forms, there's too much to talk about. Let's start.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  To start it out, Super Mario Galaxy has amazing graphics to start with. It's just too perfect for 
 any other Wii game. The controls don't take very long to learn until you know how to play this 
 game. Also you can change into different forms like Bee Mario, Boo Mario, Fire Mario, ect. These 
 forms may come in handy for getting the stars. So i'll give this a 10/10.
  
  Story:
  
  The story starts with every 100 years the shooting stars rain over the Mushroom Kingdom. So they 
 celebrate with a Star Festival. Mario comes to the Festival to meet with Peach, that is, until 
 Bowser breaks the festival. He takes up Peach's Castle with a UFO beam (wait a minute, taking up 
 Princess Peach's castle? This sounds like Paper Mario all over again) . Mario managed to get on 
 the bridge trying to save the princess until a Magikoopa appears and shotos Mario off the castle. 
 With the Luma saving him, he takes him to this planet where 3 other Luma live. After catching them, 
 he then heads to the big mama, which introduces her as Rosalina, protector of the cosmos. It is 
 Mario's job to collect the power stars and defeat Bowser to save the universe. not bad except for 
 the bringing Peach's castle up in the space with makes it sound like Paper Mario. 9/10
  
  Music/Sound
  
  Music on this game sounds pretty good. Just like all the Mario type games. The 
 sounds have changed during Super Mario Sunshine. Overall this gets a 9/10
  
  Replay Value
  
  Replay Value is high. After beating the game, you can collect all the stars 
 and unlock another character to use to collect the other stars. 10/10
  
  Overall
  
  38/40
  
  This games lives up to it's hype. Probably the 2007 game of the year for the Wii. 
 You must buy this game if your a Mario Fan. If you can't get it yet, rent it and try it out. You'll 
 like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordOblivion777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Who else can name all the worlds from 64 but has trouble coming up with the names of 3 worlds in 
 Sunshine? Galaxy is just as good as 64 but in different ways.
  
  Yep, it's what we've been waiting for in case you haven't heard yet (in which case you must be 
 living in a cave) . In short it's a masterpiece, and like all masterpieces it's human nature to 
 amplify the smallest little tiny flaws in perfection. 
  
  Goods: Beautiful lighting, great music, stellar controls and gameplay, awsome design and layout, 
 a good amount of Oh Snap! moments, some parts will really make you smile, great 'bonus" areas, 
 a couple really cool innovative galaxies, excels where 64 struggled for the most part, really really 
 fun, like all of those good games that are really awesome but lack the fun (Prime 3 and Zelda TP) .
 
  
  Bads: Funky camera angles and a few depth issues, you don't spend that much time in a few galaxies 
 so unlike 64 and even sunshine, leave most of the levels unmemorable (which really hurts) , some 
 great concepts could have been further used/developed (if you've played it you know what I mean) . 
 you barely need any stars to beat the game which makes you feel a little stupid for getting them 
 all (although I have a feeling there's a reward) .
  
  Verdict: GOTY for sure buy it now Instant Classic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct1257860
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Wow this game is really, really fun to play. Okay, the beginning of the game was actually boring 
 cause you had to keep talking and i was like wow this better pick up. But as soon as you pass through 
 the introduction it really does. 
  
  The graphics arent amazing but they are just how you would want a Mario game to look like. You 
 still are reading but you will here them talk a little which fits perfectly. The level designs 
 and affects on gravity and new villains are un-imaginable, you just wonder how some one could think 
 of all this. 
  
  The gameplay is an absolute ONE HUNDRED nothing is wrong with it pick up the game and play and 
 you will no what i mean. 
  
  Normally i would give the game a 9.9 but since the stupid new rating system which i would like 
 if it didnt go by 5's. It lost a point because of the story line is the same and they should make 
 like a new a main villain. Maybe you and Bowser would have to team up? So yeah in the future that 
 needs to be worked on. So ill round it up to a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nets535
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Mario is the biggest mascot in gaming history. He's been around for over twenty years, has over 
 one hundred games, and has practically gone everywhere. Learning, vacations, castles, sports, what 
 else? Nintendo thinks so. A galaxy. That's right; he's still kickin' today with solid 3D plat forming 
 and other maniacal activities. The story can be summed up in one sentence: Bowser kidnaps Peach; 
 you find a princess called "Rosalina" and need to collect sixty stars to have a final fight with 
 Bowser. Simple, yes, and it hurts the overall presentation quite a bit. 
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is super easy if you are just trying to get sixty measly stars. 1up's, and coins 
 that regenerate your three hearted health and are handed out excessively, and other items such 
 as a red mushroom that gives you six health. Peach constantly mails you five 1up's even though 
 she is with Bowser; and there are a couple 1up's scattered in the main hub that always reappear. 
 On top of that, most stars are practically given to you! It is also worth noting that the lack 
 of voice acting during conversations hurts the presentation yet again, because Mario Sunshine did 
 pretty well with more voice, why not Galaxy? But even then, Galaxy is still a great game, why?
 
  
  Each of the six solar system/dome has five galaxies within. Two six star galaxy's, which are your 
 main one's, two one star hardcore galaxies, and one that is a big boss fight. Getting all six stars 
 in each of the main galaxy is a tough task, as well as most of the one star galaxies. You will 
 be racing on a manta, swinging Mario with precision, and other specific tasks. It is clear this 
 was intended to be the hardcore part of the game, only one would wish there were multiple stars 
 in each of those one star galaxies. 
  
  One great aspect of Galaxy is it's formidability to throw out innovative gravity. For example, 
 in the "Good Egg" galaxy, you can walk up walls like a ninja, and walk upside down on planets. 
 It makes for some cool gameplay iterations, especially some small, fun, tasks.
  
  A new aspect of Galaxy is star bits. By waving the remote, you can collect tiny colored star bits. 
 You get 1up's on a scale of collecting fifty at a time, and you can unlock new galaxies with them. 
 Lastly, you can move comets (special missions) for twenty star bits, so shooting the bits (pressing 
 the B button) that can only hurt the weakest of enemies is a poor decision. 
  
  Mario platforming has always had its camera attacked, and it still does now, and it is even worse 
 than its predecessors. The zoom  in D-Pad views do not always allow you to use them, and the C 
 button does not always turn to where you want it to go. Think of it like this: Try to see where 
 you are walking backwards without tilting your head in either direction, you can't. In some cases, 
 you will not see exactly where to hop next like my example implies, and the D-Pad and C button 
 will lock up on you during those times where you need them most. 
  
  If you thought each star mission was going to be dreamily fun, you're wrong. Some missions require 
 you to find Luigi and his overalls, plus collecting 100 purple coins. There are other tasks that 
 are boring, but I'm sure you will get bored just reading about them. If you are on your 121 star 
 quests, be prepared for these dumb, tedious tasks.
  
  Even though Mario is in space, he's still the same old Mario. Saving Peach, Bowser's terribly planned 
 goals, and a vast galaxy. Finally, that classic Nintendo feel of bright colors which obviously 
 suggest it is a Mario game.
  
  Galaxy also has a few new suits: Spring, fire, ice, bee, and boo Mario. There also is some type 
 of flying Mario, but sadly, you can only access it at the hub. I'm sure others including me are 
 begging for new suits, they're just that dang cool. 
  
  One of Galaxy's biggest weaknesses is its boss fights. Not only do the Bowser fights repeat like 
 64 did, but all of them are easy. Half of the bosses are beaten without any interesting concepts, 
 and seem to end right when you start fighting a boss. The only time you will be challenged by a 
 boss is when you are forced to beat it with one heart, one of the types of comet missions. 
  
  I am sure casuals will love the new co  op mode. A second player can join the first player 
 in the game at any given moment. The second player can paralyze bullet bills, all enemies, give 
 an extra jump, collect star bits for you, etc. But no worries, we all know it's a little stupid 
 mode. 
  
  Galaxy's biggest pro is its fully orchestrated music, and it all fits perfectly in each scene. 
 It is rare that we get orchestrated music, and it is all beautiful. 
  
  Another strong point in Galaxy is its visuals. You cannot mistake it for a Game cube game, you 
 cannot mistake it for an Xbox game, and you cannot mistake it for a last generation game. Galaxy 
 has bright, brilliant colors and effects that make this the best looking game on the Wii. It may 
 not look as good graphically as the average 360 or PS3 game, but it's the artistic point of view 
 that separates it even from current generation games on both of those consoles.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy has been the most hyped up game for the Wii in 2007 (that actually came out) , 
 and for great reasons. Even with its few short comings, it is hard to find a big fault/complaint 
 about this game. Zelda: Phantom Hourglass failed to give a hardcore experience, while Tokyo Games 
 actually cared about both audiences instead of just leaving hard core's left in the dust. In my 
 opinion, Super Mario Galaxy is just below AAA status.
  
  ---
  
  +: Star bits play an interesting role in the game.
  
  +: Classic Mario atmosphere.
  
  +: 
 Immense galaxy/level design.
  
  +: Cool suits.
  
  +: Although easy to get sixty stars, Galaxy does a good job with hardcore aspects.
  
  ---
 
  
  -: Camera needs some tweaking.
  
  -: Some tasks are boring.
  
  -: Co - op sucks.
  
  -: Bosses are a disappointment.
  
  -: Easy to get sixty measly stars.
 
  
  ---
  
  Presentation: 8/10
  
  Gameplay: 8.5/10
  
  Value: 9/10
  
  Sound: 9.5/10
  
  Graphics: 9.5/10
  
  --- OVERALL: 8.9 / 10 --- or 44.5/50.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shamona92
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Mario Galaxy is the best Mario game to come out since Mario64, 
  
  The game is good for adults as well as children, 
  
  It is easy to get into and isn't too hard 
 or too easy, 
  
  Camera angles and management are greatly improved over Mario64, 
  
  The platforming and controls are smooth and exact, 
  
  It has graphics that (although not high-def) 
 are unbelievably cool,
  
  It's a pretty long game but the boss battles are fantastic and you don't get fed up playing it 
 after a week. 
  
  The story is the standard Mario story - Princess Peach gets kidnapped by Bowser and you have to 
 save her... But that does not take any credit away from it because the levels are amazing and each 
 one is completely different!
  
  This is easily the game of the year, I would give it 10/10 and it is a must have for anyone with 
 a Wii and there's really no point in owning a Wii if you do not have this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malachi_27
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2008 5:15 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is wonderful. Almost everything in the game is perfect. Graphics, sound, gameplay, 
 value, it's great! But there are shortcomings.
  
  If you have played Mario 64, you should be right at home with this because of the storyline and 
 game play. Instead of punching and kicking, you get to spin! I must also announce that this game's 
 gameplay is a lot more precise and easier to handle than Mario 64's. Yeah, it is interesting already. 
 Graphics are great, this game is really pushing the Wii, and it's something that can only be done 
 on a next-generation Nintendo console!. Music is the absolute best out of any Mario title. It is 
 orchestrated so well. Not all of the music is instrumental, which was somewhat of a letdown, so 
 much time went in to the soundtrack in this game. It's so great, you'll probably just stop and 
 listen. How they bring back classic music from previous Mario titles in the game is really cool; 
 they are remixes of the originals.
  
  The game is flat out easy. That can be bad since it will not take long to accomplish beating Bowser. 
 If you skip through the game just getting the main stars, it will take about four hours. But if 
 you take time to explore and see what the game has to offer such as all of the secret levels and 
 such, it can last longer, though, there are no secrets to be found except for the Grand Finale 
 Galaxy and a secret character. 
  
  Multiplayer is plain stupid. Unless you're someone who likes to point at the screen, while the 
 other actually plays the game, then the multi-player is for you! But like most of us, we don't. 
 I read that it was difficult to incorporate two players similar to the multi-player in Super Mario 
 Bros. 3 and World. It is wonderful to see a two player option after 16 years, but they should have 
 taken all the time they needed for it. No excuses. 
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is the game that will please almost anyonet. Oh, and about the difficulty being 
 too easy, it is just like that at the beginning, it somewhat gets more challenging later on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thunderstarter
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Again, holy crap.
  
  Okay, like, I thought I knew what I was in for when I bought this game, a good mario game worth 
 my 50 bucks I got for Christmas. Turns out, It was an AMAZING GAME I WOULD'vE PAID MUCH MORE MONEY 
 FOR.
  
  The best part about this game is the controls and the physics. Which is all I'm going to talk about. 
 This game takes you to different galaxies in which you will most likely go to different planets 
 in in most. Planets, obviously, are round. And these planets aren't like Earth where you can barely 
 tell that we're a floating planet. The planets are small. and you can imagine walking upside down 
 on these planets, terrible, right? WRONG! Just like if you were to be on Earth, the camera inverts 
 to make it look like you never came from the top of the planet.
  
  The physics aere AMAZING. Lets say two planets are close together, and you want to get the one 
 of them that's right next to you. Go near one side of the other planet and JUMP! The other planet's 
 gravity will suck you in immediatly and BAM! You're on the planet.
  
  Seriously, if you are reading this review, you dont trust nintendo. If you are so desperate to 
 read my review to see i this game was any good, don't buy it. You're not worthy. Filthy non believer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The5biggies
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy. The highly anticiapted 3D platformer starring videogame's most famous tubby 
 plumber. You know what, right off the bat, I have to tell you this: this game is incredible. A 
 blast to play gorgeous to watch, takes time to beat, and engaging to listen too. I guess I must 
 start with the bad though.
  
  The ONLY complaints I have against this game are two, some of the smallest things ever, also. The 
 first one is that the camera can be a little screwy, as, on occasion, Mario will turn into a shadow 
 visible through walls and the floor. It will probably only happen to you for about two seconds, 
 maximum. So do not let it stop you from playing this masterpiece. The other problem is occasional 
 frustration. I do not have much to say about this, as it is very self-explanatory alone.
  
  Now, on to the story. Of course, as this is a Mario game, Princess Peach will be kidnapped by Bowser. 
 This time though, it is during a  The little plumber 
 takes time off from the pipes of other people's property to save his true love.
  
  Of course there's a twist. Near the beggining of his journey he will find the comet observatory, 
 a large ship where small star-like creatures named Lumas wander around and eventually grow up. 
 The leader, or mother, I should say, of the group is a beautifal lady named Rosalina. Mario instantly 
 falls in love while still needing to rescue Princess Peach.
  
  Of course, to rescue Princess Peach, you'll need to press the buttons and shake the remote yourself. 
 As you guide Mario through 120 "missions" worth of gameplay, each one cashing in Mario's bank as 
 one closer to rescuing the Princess. The gameplay is simple and amazing. And if I do say so myself, 
 especially addictive. You will be jumping on goombas and spinning off Pokey parts with an anti-gravity 
 twist. As the name says, you will float and fly through galaxy and planets to find your special 
 one. The boss fights are fantastical, also. As the larger-than-life cartoonish characters try to 
 swallow you up, you will have to think a bit to find out how to make their ultimate demise. There 
 are even hidden stars adding to the slight puzzlework ocassionly involved.
  
  The sound is elegant. With extremely lightheartded, joyful music that made me grin with excitement 
 and happiness. As for the voice acting, there actually isn't much, as it is mostly mumbling, though 
 even that is done exceptionally well. The other sound effects are also top-notch, even though you 
 will not be paying as much attention to them.
  
  Now getting to other subjects, who would of though that videogaming's finest would be a short chubby 
 plumber in blue overalls. Now, you would think this would show what bad taste us gamers have, but 
 these graphics prove the exact oppostie. Some of the lighting and particle effects are amazing, 
 along with the water effects so next gen you'll think you're playing the PS3. The character models 
 are also magical, with awesome cel-shading and lighting effects used to completely perfect them. 
 And seeeing these run full speed at a flame rate that never clips or lags is absolutely boggling 
 to the mind and the eyes.
  
  This games will also take you a good chunk of time to finish, I would say a good 15-20 hours for 
 casual gamers, and that is collecting about half the stars, and you can always go for all the glory 
 basking in 120 pools of bright power stars so you can brag to your friends.
  
  All in all, Super Mario Glaxy is the Wii's #1 must-have, and it is very much worth spending 300 
 dollars (US) simply for this one game, it's just that good a game. Go buy it, and buy it right 
 now.
  Note: On the old rating system I would have given this game a 9.2, maybe 9.3
  Bye! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bellz666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  Galaxy's use of the Wii Remote is flawless as it doesn't make the mistake of throwing motion control 
 in your face. The game simply wouldn't be as fun without it. Things like firing a cannon is a lot 
 more intuitive using the Wii Remote, but the most obvious utilisation of the controller is the 
 cursor, which you can dart around the screen at all times to collect Starbits (used to unlock several 
 'mini-game' galaxies) and them fire them back at the screen using the B trigger. 
  
  The main means of interaction in Galaxy is through shaking the Remote, which executes Mario's new 
 spin attack. Punch and kick moves have been axed for this new means of interaction, which makes 
 sense, as it's incorporated in the gameplay for tasks like activating cannon-like launch stars 
 and swinging up vines. Thankfully it's not just another example of dodgy Wii 'waggle'. 
  
  Grapple stars are perhaps the most brilliant example of Galaxy's Wii Remote use. Using the remote 
 cursor you simply aim and press A to home Mario in on the stars, allowing you to 'grab' and hop 
 between lines of them like grapple points, all the while dodging space mines and projectiles. It's 
 incredibly satisfying and is the set-up for some fantastic racing sequences later on. 
  
  Galaxy also plays around with gravity and physics like no Mario game before it. You'll flip gravity 
 to navigate giant block mazes, use a planet's gravity to propel yourself to a new platform and 
 shoot into the stars. It's not as revolutionary as Mario 64, but it certainly re-defines what we 
 expect from a 3D platformer. 
  
  The concept of running around giant spheres can be daunting at first; if there's no pulsating black 
 hole underneath your planet, falling off the edge just doesn't come into the equation. Without 
 the pulling power of the black holes, no matter where you run or jump gravity will twist and pull 
 you towards the planet, allowing you to run all the way around it and even jump to other planets 
 by hopping into their gravitational pull. It's awesome. 
  
  If you're on a flat, orbiting platform you can run right underneath it, which opens up all kinds 
 of gameplay that would be impossible under Mario 64's laws of gravity - and allows the scale of 
 Mario's playgrounds to grow to genuinely draw-dropping proportions. 
  
  Shooting off into the stratosphere in one of Galaxy's many willy-waving cinematic moments, there 
 were actual gasps at the beauty and scale of the starry world around us. The void-ish nature of 
 Galaxy's world means Nintendo has been able to spend polygons liberally on the environment and 
 it's easily the most draw-dropping game on Wii. And yes, we do mean draw-dropping. 
  
  Just like Mario 64 the game takes place in a hub world, this time around a starship headed up by 
 space-age princess Rosalina and her race of Lumas (they're the little star blokes) . Predictably, 
 the Lumas need you to get collect stars to get their ship up and running again so you can chase 
 down the star-bound Bowser. There are 120 to collect - many hidden - and it'll take you about as 
 long as '64 to collect them all (and that's a good few hours) . 
  
  After the disappointingly similar environments of Sunshine there's thankfully a much larger variety 
 of worlds this time around too. Amazingly, despite the fact there are now only three "story" stars 
 to collect per world, Galaxy's playgrounds aren't all pint-sized either (although there are one-off 
 "platforming" worlds - which are rock hard and bloody brilliant) . 
  
  I was delighted to find that the majority are as big - if not larger - than the locales of Mario 
 64, and unlike Sunshine many will make you smile like the time you first dived into the pirate 
 cove in Mario 64. 
  
  It's a consistently surprising experience and I wouldn't dare spoil it for you, but Galaxy will 
 take you places that will remind you why you play videogames 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CursedmonkeY95
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong, but Super Mario Galaxy could be really fustrating at various times. Also, it 
 has bad angles at some of the hard parts. For example, you have there would be a block in the way 
 while you are walking and you can't see. Also this game feels like it is really hard to beat. I 
 heard that you need 60 stars to beat it, and I only have 19... For me I have a long way to go I 
 guess...
  
  On the bright side, Mario is a fun and addictive game that gets you at your Wii for a very long 
 time. The good thing is that they have really easy controls (swing remote to do a twirl, use joystick 
 on nunchuck to move, a to jump, and B on the Wii remote to use crystals to hit enemys or feed lumas) Also, 
 compared to the other 3D Mario Adventrure games like Super Mario Sunshine and Super Mario 64, this 
 game would beat both of them. In Galaxy, they made some really good ideas while they were in the 
 game. For example, you can go upside down while you are in space and also getting the Bullets to 
 smash glasses that you can't break yourself. So, this is another series in Super Mario.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MurphyX500
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 3:55 am PT
Review:  I wont bore you with many details about the story and what not, you can get that from the official 
 review. Let me just say I'm on my Christmas break and when I'm not playing Mario Galaxy, I'm talking 
 about it and doing other Mario related things such as writing this review.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in SMG is outstanding. There's a lot of variety, and it becomes increasingly 
 more challenging as the game progresses. Mario can do his classic Mario 64 moves such as long jump, 
 butt stomp, triple jump, wall jump and so on, but now has a new spin attack which uses the wii 
 remotes motion sensitivity. The Wii's unique features are used in various ways, the most simple 
 being menu navigation, to blowing Mario around in a bubble and racing a top a mantaray. And it 
 all plays so smooth and so well, the control in this game really is top notch. The new gravity 
 effects in this game are really something special, and there are also several powerups, which I 
 do not have a problem with, unlike the official review.
  
  Graphics: The graphics for most of the game are a joy to behold. So much variety and colour; it's 
 nice to play a game that doesn't go for realism and blood and guts all the time. I do think that 
 the quality of the graphics is inconsistent at times, as in some galaxies looks much better than 
 others, but it is not a major issue, just something I personally notice when I play.
  
  Sound: Mario is well known for his catchy and memorable theme music, and this game is no different. 
 There are some remixed classics dating back to the original 2D Mario games. I haven't noticed and 
 Mario 64 remixes yet, but I haven't played the whole game yet. There are also new themes which 
 are beautiful to listen to and really capture the epic scale of the game. In my opinion the best 
 Mario soundtrack. The sound effects are cool as well, with Mario making his trade marks yah-hoos 
 and so on. There's also something very satisfying about the nose when you jump on a goomba. Also, 
 sound comes out of the Wii remote, and being new to the Wii I found this really cool. This game 
 just would not be the same with out the impressive music and sound. There is very little dialogue 
 to be found in this game, but I don't actually like a lot of dialogue anyway.
  
  Why didn't I give this game a 10. It is because for me, Mario 64 was the game I grew up with and 
 was the best game ever in my eyes. Sometimes when I play SMG, I miss the way Mario 64 did it. For 
 example, the central hub in SMG is awesome, but the Castle in Mario 64 is just a classic. Similarly 
 when I fight Bowser in SMG, it is really good, and I'll be honest the controls in SMG are much 
 better than Mario 64, I just miss the old Bowser battles. However, I think having played Mario 
 64 ad nausea has helped me appreciate SMG more. I think if you haven't had the chance to play Mario 
 64 on the N64, play it on the Wii virtual console and then play this game. They're both awesome. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crosbymalkin07
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2007 11:41 pm PT
Review:  I got this game for christmas with a wii like a ton of people. I had been anticipating this game 
 since a bit before it came out, and it was part of the reason I wanted a wii. Watching videos I 
 was astounded by the graphics, the look... the whole "man, that game looks fun" feel.
  
  It was just like I expected it to be and then some. The controls, graphics, the usual fun platforming 
 elements with a new twist going upside down, sideways, and what not on the planets. The music was 
 excellent, the good egg galaxy theme has even stuck in my head (though not quite on the same level 
 as the yoshi's island theme or SM64 castle theme) . But there are also old mario tunes mixed in, 
 I was delighted to hear the old SMB3 tune and the intense bowser level music from SM64. The bowser 
 battles also had an epic feel to them, great music. 
  
  The only negative thing about this game for some people is the fact it is too linear. Basically, 
 the paths are pretty straightforward. You can still mess around in the different galaxies though, 
 and it is a blast.
  
  If you own and a wii and you don't own this game, then for the love of all that is good, GET SUPER 
 MARIO GALAXY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiidog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  I didn't really enjoy Mario 64. I really just liked running around doing tricks with Mario. But 
 i still played it. So when i heard Mario Galaxy was coming out i knew it would be bigger and better. 
 This game is very fun and you will want to get all 120 stars even after you beat the game. The 
 gameplay is very fun with gravity on each mass you run in to. The controls aren't anything to go 
 crazy over but they are very good. Mario cant punch or kick in this game like in 64. Instead he 
 does a spin attack by shaking the Wiimote. Now the most wonderful and probably the main reason 
 why i and most people like this game is because of the tight graphics. They are shiny and colorful 
 and simply magnificent. If all Wii games had this level of graphics the Wii would sell 3 times 
 as many games. The game isn't too hard or too easy. Some levels are as easy as pie. Others are 
 relatively hard. It is a very good and fun balance of easy and hard. Overall every Wii oner should 
 have a copy of Galaxy in there home and 4 their console. It is fun, better than the first and challenging. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goodlay
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Every generation the Mario game always shows what Nintendos new system is capable of, starting 
 with the original Super Mario Bros. and most recently with Galaxy. Marios latest adventure has 
 him soaring through space searching for power stars, and it shows how much fun the Wii control 
 scheme can really be, and that the system can produce beautiful graphics. Its a mind blowing adventure, 
 and while at first glimpse it may look like it strays away from the classic platforming from Super 
 Mario 64, fans will feel right at home when they pop the game in.
  
  As everyone already knows, the story isn't anything amazing, and you won't even read, you'll just 
 skip through. Bowser captures Peach, Mario goes after her. Although there is one new element to 
 the story, Roselina, will give Mario use to her comet observatory, which is the hub in Galaxy. 
 In the observatory there are about six domes. In each dome there are tons of worlds to explore, 
 there are the main stars to get, and secret / hidden stars.
  
  The controls in Super Mario Galaxy are extremely tight and responsive, you have the standard 3D 
 Mario controls with the long jump, triple jump, wall jump, back flip, etc. But you also have Wii 
 controls such as the spin attack which is extremely useful and will make you scratch your head 
 and wonder how you played through other Mario games without it. You use the Wii remote also like 
 a balance beam, in side missions like ray surfing or riding on top of a glass ball, ala Super Monkey 
 Ball. These side missions are extremely fun thanks to the tight controls. The one problem with 
 the controls lies within the automatic camera system. It works well for the most part, but when 
 you need a precise angle it can be frustrating, and the fact that you can't really control the 
 camera very much doesn't make it any easier. 
  
  The graphics in Super Mario Galaxy are great. A lot of work went into the different graphical effects 
 and shaders, everything comes out looking great. The game runs in 480p and 60 fps and has no pop 
 ups when flying from planet to planet. The music in Galaxy is fantastic. The games musical score 
 is simply amazing, it has classic Mario themes from older Mario games, but also new anthems. Every 
 world has a fitting theme, and the music is extremely well done, and immersive.
  
  The core gameplay in Super Mario Galaxy closely resembles Super Mario 64. You'll be doing your 
 standard platforming missions, IE get to the top of this pyramid, swim to the bottom of the lake, 
 etc. However, there are the strange side missions, like surfing on rays, racing ghosts, swimming 
 with penguins, riding on top of a glass ball, and even blowing Mario across the level as he floats 
 around in a bubble. All the main missions are a ton of fun and the side missions are a good distraction 
 from the main levels. However my one beef with the chase to 120 stars are the comets. There are 
 several types of comets. Fast foe comets which make the enemies move extremely fast, daredevil 
 comets which make you beat a boss with only one hit point, speedy comets which make you beat a 
 level in four minutes usually, purple comets which make you collect one hundred purple coins in 
 that level, and shady comets which makes you race against an evil version of Mario, which resembles 
 Super Mario Sunshine a lot, but it is a bit too easy, as you just have to long jump to go faster 
 than the dark version of Mario.
  
  Most of the comets don't add anything to the core experience and they are just annoying and frustrating, 
 such as the daredevil and speedy comets. The purple coin challenges are fine, and are a lot less 
 tedious than the 100 coin stars in Super Mario 64, seeing there is a select path to the 100 coins. 
 Some of the daredevil comets in the early levels are harder than levels in the very late game, 
 which makes absolutely no sense.
  
  The last main element of the gameplay are the power ups, how could it be a Mario game without crazy 
 power ups? You will come across a bee suit which allows you to fly and climb up honey combs, but 
 you can't swim. Ice and Fire Mario are self explanatory. Rainbow Mario is invincible and runs faster, 
 though you rarely get that power up. Boo Mario allows you to trick ghosts and vanish for several 
 seconds, and to fly. There is a variation on the old wing cap, except its a lot easier to control, 
 its a red and black suit for Mario, and its mainly for flying around the observatory once you unlock 
 all of the domes. There is one bad power up though, spring Mario. Spring Mario is frustrating to 
 control, he never stops moving, you have to time your jumps perfectly, and he can't kill any enemies. 
 Overall the power ups work great for the most part and are a lot of fun to use. You only come across 
 them in certain levels though.
  
  All in all, Super Mario Galaxy is a fantastic addition into the collection of great Mario platformers. 
 It does everything well, it looks good, it feels good, it sounds good, it plays good. Of course 
 give and take some nagging camera problems and some frustrating points in the game. But the breath 
 taking sense of a never ending world when you shoot off from a launch star is absolutely amazing. 
 If you are a Wii owner there is absolutely no reason you shouldn't play this game. It shows that 
 platformers are still a great genre in gaming, and that they won't become extinct with all of the 
 first person shooters and action games. Super Mario Galaxy will convince you that Mario games are 
 here to stay, and his latest game is simply a joy to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdesires
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  
  Finally a game that shows what Wii can really do, Mario is back in 3D with space as background, 
 the levels are greatly designed, they are beautiful and colorful, there are all tipes of scenarios 
 such as ice plains, forests, fortresses and many more, they change from galaxy to galaxy, and there 
 are lots of galaxys to explore and in each galaxy there are lots of planets to go and explore, 
 and even from planet to planet in the same galaxy the graphics change to another set so you never 
 get bored. Super Mario Galaxy has gorgeous pretty graphics to apply to everyone and finally there 
 is a game that shows what the Wii its really capable of.
  10
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay its perfect, they are not dificult and you can do many many things such as climbing 
 walls, riding, be an NHL player in ice levels (...) . It all works perfectly except one little thing... 
 when mario its upside down it gets a little harder to control, but just a little and probably you 
 won't notice and will definetly don't care about it because everything else its great. You have 
 the useful ability to spin to knock out oponents and breaking some things in the scenario, you 
 can also transform into a bee or a ghost for examples since there are more and this brings some 
 dynamic to the gameplay, while being a bee you can fly around for a limited period of time to reach 
 higher places, but you also lose this ability if you go into the water for exp. as a ghost you 
 can get through walls, wires and that kinf of thing.
  Gameplay in Super Mario Galaxy its perfect, its simple, dynamic and offer a lot a things to do.
 
  9,5.
  
  Sound:
  
  Its the first time a Mario game gets orchestral soundtracks and they are awesome, every soundtrack 
 is great to listen to, the sound effects are all pretty cool and its nice to hear mario say "whoo-hoo".
 
  10
  
  Value:
  
  Hey we are not talking about colecting 10 stars... we are talking about colecting 120 STARS!!! 
 it will take many hours to do this and you will want to collect them all cause only whit the 120 
 stars you will be able to play with the great Luigi, colectiong all stars will keep you busy many 
 hours and you will want to play all that hours and you won't feel the game its getting boring at 
 all.
  10
  
  Overall:
  
  Super Mario Galaxy its a great mario game, everyone should have it even if you have to buy a Wii 
 just to play this game, its one of the great games of the year of 2007 and one of the greatest 
 games of all time, Mario can one more time stay in history of videogames with another awesome game, 
 Miyamoto shows with Galaxy why he is considered one of the best out there.
  The game its not perfect but its sooooo bear if being perfect I will give it a perfect 10, 10+9,5+10+10=39,5 
 / 4 =98,75, so if I could i would give the game a 99% just cause of that very little problem with 
 the gameplay, but there is no perfect game and a game like Mario Galaxy deserves a perfect 10. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dc456
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Its easy to say that the Mario franchise hasn't really changed much up until now. Its really been 
 the same, exploring worlds and jumping on guys heads to kill them. With Mario Galaxy this hasn't 
 changed either but it certainly adds alot more to that same concept.
  
  The games storyline firstly hasn't changed much form past games its the same damsel in distress 
 concept with as always Princess Peach being captured by Bowser and Mario goes after him to save 
 her. Exept this time around Bowser has taken the fight to space and after being helped by Princess 
 who rules over the galaxies in a space station, and finding out that this station can take you 
 to whatever galaxy you wish to visit. In each galaxy you collect stars (like in Super Mario 64) 
 which will ultimatly allow you to access more galaxies and more parts of the Space Station. After 
 gathering at least 60 stars you can face Bowser but if you want you can gather all 120 stars which 
 will give you more bang for your buck.
  
  Now it wouldn't be called Super Mario GALAXY unless some sort of space mechanic was inputted and 
 it most definatly was. Gravity is a big thing in Mario Galaxy so you'll either be pulled to the 
 underside of planets, hanging upside down or be floating aimlessly in mid-air as you defy gravity. 
 You'll also be launched from place to place and even create planets where you can find hidden stars. 
 All this plus more gives the game an amazing feel, and as Alex Nevaro says it doesn't have to be 
 a Mario game for it to be great but just because it has that theme is what makes it so much better 
 than what it would have been.
  
  Now if Mario Galaxy's game play isn't enough to fill your plate then its visual design will definatley 
 satisfy your apitite for games. The game just looks incredibly amazing and doesn't stop to amaze 
 you because each level just has to have its own personality and the visuals definatly give it that 
 diversity.
  
  Probebly the very worst thing about Mario Galaxy though is that like all good things on this earth 
 it has to come to an end.
  
  To sum it up Mario Galaxy is by far the greatest Wii game and probebly the most wanted this holiday 
 season and in the new year to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jagines1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  NO other game this year was this flawless. There is absolutely no downside to this game... The 
 visuals are simply beautiful. When you see mario flying through space on his way to the next planet, 
 its a jaw dropping experience every time. The soundrack is immersive and original. Everything about 
 this game is perfect. There were many amazing games this year, and all of them would have won game 
 of the year an other year. Unfortunately, they came out the year mario galaxy came out. I love 
 this  If you have a wii or a soul, you will buy this 
 game if not any other game this decade! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commonsenselife
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is a classic, and there are really no words to explain it except that it's just 
 plain fun! It has lots of fan service, like when you rescue Luigi. And top of that, the graphics 
 are just incredible, and I'd say the graphics are better than Metroid Prime 3: Corruption's graphics. 
 X-Play gave this game a 5 out of 5. The graphics are so good, that you could compare it with the 
 360's, and PS3's graphics, thats just how good the graphics are. But there is 1 bad thing about 
 this game, well actually 2. And the 1st is that there is a no difficulty level for the game. 2nd, 
 because it's harder getting to the bosses, than fighting the bosses. Because Bowser is too easy 
 to beat the last time you fight him, and the 2nd time! I can understand the 1st time, but he doesn't 
 really get any harder the 2nd time. and so I decided to take .5 points off cuz its harder getting 
 to the bosses, than fighting them, but nonetheless its still fun fighting them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghangiskhan1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 was a tough act to follow. Although its successor, Super Mario Sunshine was a great 
 game, it did not feel like a true sequel. We waited 11 years until its true sequel came out and 
 that game is Super Mario Galaxy.
  
  I'd like to start by saying that Super Mario Galaxy does not only feel like a true sequel to Mario 
 64, but it feels like all of the previous Mario games (apart from the spin-offs) combined into 
 one excellent experience. One excellent experience that also brings much new and fun features to 
 the table. Super Mario Galaxy will remind you of Mario Sunshine, Mario 64, Super Mario Bros. 3, 
 the original Super Mario Bros. and even more in the fondest way possible. In fact, I'd go as far 
 as saying that Galaxy is better than all of the games I just listed, if not better than damn close. 
 But I'm sure you'd like to know why.
  
  Unlike Mario Sunshine, Galaxy doesn't introduce a new item for Mario to use, but instead a new 
 style of levels with the same great Mario gameplay intact. Mario is now in space and the levels 
 are now galaxies. Mario can walk around circular comets, planets, etc. This may seem weird but 
 once you're used to it, it works pretty well and is great fun. However, if this instantly turns 
 you off, then don't fear because Galaxy has plenty of traditional Mario platforming moments that 
 do not disappoint. The fact that you can walk all over, up walls, and upside down is just a fun 
 aspect that is not overused or underused.
  
  In Super Mario Galaxy, Mario is invited to go to the star festival at Princess Peach's castle. 
 This festival only happens every 100 years so it is a very important event. Trouble starts right 
 when Mario gets there are Bowser and Kamek appear on the scene and pull the castle, along with 
 Princess Peach, right out of the ground and bring it into space. Mario ends up in a small little 
 colony of Lumas, which are star beings, and their "mother", Princess Rosalina. Princess Rosalina 
 tells Mario that he must collect power stars in order for a beacon in the center of their home 
 to grow bright enough to bring them where Peach is. Meanwhile, Bowser is planning something evil. 
 
  
  So this time Mario is once again collecting power stars and it feels just as it should be. The 
 storyline in Mario Galaxy is what you would expect from a Mario platformer. It is neither deep 
 or intense but it is perfect for a game where deep stories need not apply. It is there and it works 
 just fine.
  
  I think the reason Mario Sunshine wasn't as good as it should have been was because it all took 
 place in one environment. Sure, the levels were all fun and the theme was nice but at the same 
 time, it's all the same theme so you don't really get that much variety whereas Mario 64 had all 
 kinds of different themes depending on which level you're at. If you think Mario Galaxy is all 
 space themed then you are far off. The galaxies all have their own unique themes. Whether it's 
 ice themed, fire themed, toy themed or even bee-hive themed, there is an unbelievable about of 
 variety in each of the galaxies. This is one of the big reasons why Mario Galaxy feels like Mario 
 64.
  
  Another thing about Galaxy that will have Mario 64 in your head is that a lot of the moves that 
 were not featured in Sunshine but were in Mario 64 make a return. The long jump, one of my most 
 missed moves makes a return and it is a great thing to have when clearing those long gaps. Mario 
 also has plenty of moves from all the Mario games like the triple jump, the wall jump, the ground 
 pounds and many, many more. This game also introduces mushrooms Mario can collect which will give 
 him certain powers. For example, if Mario finds a bee mushroom it will change him into Bee Mario 
 and he can fly. Mario can also find a fire ball mushroom, an ice mushroom, a spring mushroom and 
 more. These special mushrooms add more variety to a game already screaming with it.
  
  One of the most amazing features of Mario Galaxy is its boss fights. The fights are incredibly 
 fun and there was so many of them but still not enough! Even the easy and even the frustrating 
 fights were a blast to play. If you've beaten Mario Sunshine you'll know that the final boss fight 
 was downright terrible. It was really bad and really brought down the otherwise great game in the 
 end. However, Mario Galaxy's boss fights are the complete opposite of that and you can't help but 
 feel good when fighting them. The creators of Galaxy also made Donkey Kong Jungle Beat which had 
 some amazing boss fights. However, the fights did get stale because the bosses were recycled way 
 too much. With Galaxy, that got a cue from that and made it so the fights are awesome and there 
 is always something new. Galaxy has the best boss fights of a Mario game yet and competes for the 
 best boss fights ever. 
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is a Wii game so obviously it is going to have some motion controls. But it 
 keeps them to a minimal for the better. By minimal I mean just right. There is actually quite a 
 bit of aspects that use the motion controls but it is nothing like Metroid Prime 3 where the gameplay 
 engine relies entirely on the motion controls to do most things. The creators of Mario Galaxy knew 
 that a Mario platformer does not need motion controls to be fun. The motion controls in this game 
 are used for one attack where if you shake the Wii remote Mario does a spinning attack. It actually 
 works very well. The motion controls are also used for various minigames the game has such as rolling 
 on top of a ball Super Monkey Ball style. The last big thing they are used for is a cursor. When 
 you press the B button, wherever you are aiming the cursor, star bits will shoot out to stun enemies 
 or break object which gets me to my next subject.
  
  Apart from the 120 stars in the game, Mario will be collecting thousands of star bits. Star bits 
 are very easily found by killing enemies, breaking object, but most of them are out in the open 
 ready to be collected. Mario can collect them by running or jumping into them just like any other 
 object, but to save time you can move the cursor with the Wiimote, over to where they are and it 
 will automatically bring the over to Mario. You can then press B to shoot star bits at enemies 
 to stun them or you can feed Lumas to open new galaxies. The galaxies you unlock with star bits 
 are more of side galaxies as they usually only have you going after one star, instead of 3 or more.
 
  
  A big downside the Wii has had since launch was that it couldn't keep up with the other systems 
 in terms of visuals. This past year we've seen a lot of Wii games with graphics that are on par 
 with Gamecube's, Dreamcast's and even Nintendo 64's visuals. Not so much with Gamecube graphics, 
 but it's a big problem when your "next-gen" console has graphics equivalent to a ten year old console. 
 Most of the graphical effort has come from the Nintendo made games on the Wii so we expected at 
 least decent graphics for Mario Galaxy, except they are much better than decent.
  
  Mario Galaxy blew me away with the graphics. I was so impressed and relieved that Nintendo finally 
 had a game with spectacular graphics on the Wii. Not only is the art style very impressive, but 
 the visuals themselves are extremely impressive. I noticed much detail in the environments such 
 as being able to make out individual strands of hair on some of the character. The level design 
 is fantastic. Boring levels are an extremely rare find and the awesome levels, which is 99% of 
 the game, well be a joy to look at. The textures are impressive, they are not blocky or grainy, 
 but smooth and just really, really good. The graphics are without a doubt the best on the Wii and 
 the art style rivals best for the year of any system.
  
  I like the music in a lot of video games, but seldom do I like it so much that I listen to it outside 
 of the game. Mario Galaxy's music is the kind of music that I'll listen to on my computer and it 
 plays in my head when I'm sitting around doing nothing. In 2006, many reviewers complained about 
 the fact that The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess' music was not orchestrated. All I have to 
 say is, who cares? It was great none the less. Even if it would've sounded richer orchestrated, 
 I was content and happy listening to it. Some of the music is now orchestrated, which is for the 
 better. The music also really fits with the level or part of the level you are playing in. But 
 the point is, the music is awesome in this game and not only is are the graphics the best on the 
 Wii, but the music is too. 
  
  Just like in Mario 64 and Mario Sunshine, voice acting is kept to a minimal. Of course Mario still 
 grunts and says his short sentences like his trademark "It's-a-me, Mario!", but you'll reading 
 most of the things people have to see in this game, not hearing them. That is just fine though 
 because voice acting is not really necessary and we've been used to this style for years now. The 
 Wii Remote speaker is present in this game and it doesn't really get in the way. That is a very 
 good thing because a lot of games that make excessive use for the low quality speaker in the remote 
 just don't have too good sounds because of it. I really liked the sound effects too, really what 
 you'd come to expect from a Mario game.
  
  The length in Mario games has never been a problem. Both Mario 64 and Mario Sunshine were pretty 
 long games because once you beat the core game, there are a lot of extras to unlock and a lot of 
 new places to explore. Mario Galaxy continues this except it adds even more. Although it only takes 
 60 stars to face the last boss this time around, the stars are tougher and take longer to collect 
 than in Mario 64 and Mario Sunshine. There are also still 120 stars in the game and when you get 
 them all you unlock a secret character. But don't think that's the end because if you get 120 more 
 stars with that character, you'll get something else. There is a lot of incentive to continue playing 
 Galaxy and it is such a fun game that you will want to play it multiple times. Easily the longest 
 Mario platformer to date.
  
  All in all, Super Mario Galaxy is an amazing achievement. It reminded me why I loved playing video 
 games in a time when they were starting to get boring for me. It brought light to this gaming world 
 and will go down as one of my favorite video games ever. It is extremely fun and well done. Any 
 downside of this game is nothing because the countless amazing parts make up for any fault is this 
 awesome experience. You really owe it to yourself to play Mario Galaxy and if you don't, you are 
 really missing out on one of the best possible experiences in video gaming. It's the best platformer 
 this year, it's the best Wii game, it's the best video game to be released in 2007. Not only is 
 Mario Galaxy the best looking, best sounding and longest Mario game, but it is also the most fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blonderambo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  I love this game, I really do almost everything is flawless; the level design, the graphics, the 
 replayability, etc. but I only gave this game an 8.5 because I think that they really have outdone 
 themselves with some of the levels in which so many enemies or just crazy-ass levels are present. 
 I don't like hearing people saying, "this game is so damn easy." well its not, I'd say only the 
 first two or three levels are easy the rest give quite a chellenge. I'm not the msot experienced 
 gamer, so maybe that's why I'm struggling a little but every person who plays this has to come 
 across at least one challenge, right? So, anyway despite it being pretty tough (also because they 
 lowered the life bar from 8 to 3) it is a rewarding game and very fun and despite being tough it 
 gives you a sense of self-gratification when you beat a difficult boss or level. So this game certainley 
 revolutionizes the Mario (tm) universe with its difficulty and level design but is sure to bring 
 alittle frustration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndYOU
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  Words can not describe the greatness of this game, but I'll try anyway. Mario's newest adventure 
 shines a bright light. Most Wii games don't have superior graphics, but Galaxy is an exception 
 to that. The controls work well with the Wii Remote and Nunchuk, and uses the motion capability 
 as well, but doesn't use it so much it bores you. The msuic is great, as in any Mario game, but 
 this tops them all, with a delightful mix of old and new songs. The plot is great, and keeps you 
 wanting to play. Galaxy is even worth a second go-around. The only complaint I have about this 
 game is the stupidity of Luigi always getting lost and needing help, but that's a rather small 
 complaint, because it doesn't happen often, and swimming is kind of difficult. Overall, SMG is 
 a MUST for any Wii owner, and it proves to people that don't like the Wii that it can have great 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pimpin_playah
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  Mario returns in an out-of-this-world adventure, bringing back the nostalgia from Mario 64 for 
 those who can remember it, and introducing new material for the younger generation. 
  
  The game starts with Peach inviting Mario to her castle. As he gets there, Bowser and son arrive 
 to kidnap Peach (surprise!) But of course, the wonderfully creative design team did away with Bowser's 
 conventional kidnapping method, instead having him arrive with a bunch of UFOs to whisk the whole 
 castle away. This sets the stage for an all-out galactic adventure. 
  
  Mario has to travel various galaxies to collect power stars, used to power a Luma observatory ship 
 capable of locating Bowser and rescuing Peach. When it comes to outer space, nothing is too fanciful 
 for this Mario design team, thus resulting in the vivid and creative designs for each of the levels. 
 The team even bends the laws of physics, causing gravity to be ever-changing and unpredictable. 
 You can even walk sideways and upside-down!
  
  You'll never find yourself wanting more variety. The outer space setting of the game, although 
 a bit of a stretch, allows for any number of designs and graphics to be believable. As for the 
 soundtrack? Music to my ears. Keeping the old classic jingles while adding a few new ones to the 
 repertoire, and all wonderfully modernized to keep that old-school but not out-of-date feeling. 
 Each song emphasizes the environment you're in, making the stages even more astounding. 
  
  It's hard to believe that any successor to Mario 64 could live up to its name, but Super Mario 
 Galaxy does this and more, as only a Mario game could. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: orangecharles
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 5:35 am PT
Review:  For those who liked Super Mario 64 and Super Mario Sunshine, there is no better game then this 
 for you!
  
  Now the drag about this game is the storyline. As usall Peach is kidnap by Bowser, and Mario has 
 to save her, but that's not all. As Mario is collecting stasr to save Peach, Bowser is making a 
 Galaxy of his own filled with evil.
  
  The Controlls are simple. A is jump, B is to shoot star bit (wich is the diet of a luma) and shake 
 the Wii mote to do a spin attack.
  
  You will finish the game very quickly but there's alot of replay. After you finish the storyline, 
 you have some more stars to collect still.
  
  In two player mode the first player controls Mario and the second player is a little cursor that 
 helps the first player along the way. The second player can help by stuning enemies, collecting 
 star bits and making Mario jump higher by clicking on him.
  
  The last thing I want to talk about gravity. The gravity can put you walking up a wall, walking 
 on the celing or walking on the under side of a ptatform.
  
  Overall it's a great game! (In my oppinoin) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: werc96
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2007 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Instead of an overall, Extremely accurate review on my part... Im going to let you know a few quick 
 things about me and how hard it is for me to give anything a 10.
  Im a harsh critic... Harsh enough to think God of war and halos have their big faults.... But a great 
 charm and game...
  Harsh enough to think the new zelda wasnt as mesmerizing and incredible as i thought it would be...
 
  ... Also harsh to the fact that People buy ridicolous stuff that comes out on the wii again and 
 again because they think casual games are amazing, and you get sequels every 2 months.
  Well people.... If you have a wii...
  If youve ever liked mario... or have been waiting for a killer 
 platformer (im sorry the new ratchet and clank was utter garbage) ... Then welcome to paradise.
 
  Mario galaxy has to be one of the best games ive EVER played.
  Not just on the wii.... but in general...
  I own over 2000 games.... Its a whole lotta... I know.... But 
 this gmae left me shocked as i was playing it.
  
  Graphics:
  Amazing! They gave the series a darker look and feel (meshes in with the whole galaxy theme) I 
 have this on 420p and no jaggies have been found... Super consistent framerate... Character models 
 look stunning..
  And universes look out of this world! (no pun intended)
  
  Sound:
  Perfect! Everything you need in a mario game... Your Yahoos And wahaas.
  Along with great music 
 each and every stage... if your a nostalgic mario fan then you bound to hear some great music from 
 the past in a few levels.
  
  Gameplay:
  Best part about this game! I thought it would be a constant exercise with mario galaxy... I was 
 sooo wrong... (and im sooo glad)
  Its the basic use of your control... a little wiggling here and there... and bonus stages that require 
 you do things with the remote (things as balancing on a ball, Surfing.. etc...)
  Mario moves flawlesly, The camera for me was great (even though time to time on boss fights it 
 can get a little stuck on you)
  And the overall replayability, the hunt for all the stars, Time trials... There is just so much 
 to do... Unexplainable.
  
  Overall:
  I dont just highly recoomend this game... It would be an understatement.
  If you are a true gamer... Any 
 age, Any location... Mario Galaxy is the game you owe yourself.
  An experience you wont soon forget, And will remember for years to come.
  I give this game a 
 perfect 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slyemu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Once upon a time, there existed a video game company named Nintendo. This company made Mario games. 
 In the year of 2007, they created Super Mario Galaxy, and made tons of people very happy, including 
 me. Thanks to a supreme mix of beautiful graphics, brilliant level design, and smooth, connected 
 controls, Galaxy has shaped up to be a gaming experience not to miss. The only complaint that I 
 have is that this game is a little on the easy side, and definitely easier than Super Mario 64 
 or Super Mario Sunshine. But that is a minor complaint. I completely agree with Super Mario Galaxy 
 winning the Gamespot Editor's Choice 2007. Okay, so apparently my review has to be a minimum of 
 800 characters, so I'm just going to type a little bit more until I have enough... So yeah, Super 
 Mario Galaxy is quite amazing... you should totally get it, even if you don't have a Wii, just to 
 say you have it... If you're worried about people making fun of you, you shouldn't, because it is 
 such a cool game nobody will make fun of you, so it's okay.
  The End 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RapidestDart
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  When I was anticipating Christmas Morning, I spent a decent amount of my time looking up reviews 
 of recent games. Of course I knew about Super Mario Galaxy, who didn't? After seeing 9.5 on Gamespot, 
 and similar scores all over the internet, I was prepared to play one of the best games I had ever 
 seen.
  So I pop in the disk a little while after opening all my gifts, and i start the game up. My reaction 
 of the opening story sequence was to roll my eyes. The story is a little different than previous 
 Mario games, but nothing new at all. Not that that's a bad thing, too much story in a platform 
 game is a bad idea, but something new would be nice.
  So after a few minutes playing the game, I start to get the hang of the controls. I progress through 
 the game at an average pace, and then it hits me: This game is not as good as I had expected.
 
  I still like the game however, the terrific graphics considering its a Wii game definitely help 
 the case, and the gameplay is good fun (if only for short bursts of time) . The music is also very 
 well done. My personal favorite feature is the second player, because they're GOD! The second player 
 can shoot star bits, freeze enemies, make Mario jump and move certain objects.
  My previous paragraph points out all the good points, And honestly there aren't many bad points. 
 The justification for my lower rating is because the game is way overblown. It's a real solid platformer, 
 but I don't see what everyone is talking about when they say it's one of the best games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coco900
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game on the Wii so far. Buy it if you have a Wii. Its a must have for Mario fans 
 and Wii owners. It is the best platforming ever. The game is very fun and addictive. Kids and adults 
 will love this game. Also the multi-player mode where one player controls the blue star to get star 
 bits is a fun thing for young children to do if they do not want want to actually play as Mario. The 
 boss battles are very fun to battle and require some strategy but sometimes can be a little bit 
 to easy. With it all mixed in with the old classic Mario make it a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pork_Lord
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo's natural order of things seems to have built up to a pinnacle. We've had next-gen Zelda. 
 Recently Samus hit the Wii in Metroid Prime 3. Most of the other loved Nintendo names have had 
 their big next-gen outing and now it's time for the main moustached man to step back in and take 
 his crown as the Nintendo king. In an intergalactic blast of an outing, Super Mario Galaxy takes 
 the most famous name in gaming into outer space to defy gravity, journey across galaxies, and a 
 whole range of worlds new and old.
  
  Opening into a beautiful world of Mario like none before (you may recognise a lot of models and 
 objects from Brawl screenshots) Galaxy is nothing but luscious right from the start. A brief outing 
 in the Mushroom Kingdom leads to the inevitable capture of our beloved Princess Peach until things 
 take a vertical twist when Bowser blasts the crew and the castle into the galactic beyond.
  
  From here things just get better. The opening scenes show off some amazing FMV sequences with 
 our favourite Nintendo characters looking more impressive than ever. While I'll never expect a 
 defining Wii title to have the graphical capabilities of competing with rival console hardware 
 today, Super Mario Galaxy is by far the best visuals you could look for on Wii. Not only is everything 
 smooth and polished, the visual content of the game is lavish beyond description, a world of stars 
 (Grand, Power, Bits and more) colours and galaxies ranging across every extreme of every element. 
 Galaxies of fire, ice, water, candy - Super Mario Galaxy did everything I hoped it would in providing 
 an immense range of worlds to explore and the unique Nintendo charm to suit.
  
  Half an hour or so through the opening films and sequences finds Mario again star hunting through 
 a variety of levels, chosen from a primary hub this time known as the Comet Observatory. It is 
 this observatory of which Mario must collect power stars for, in hopes of refueling the ship and 
 navigating it to the centre of the universe to save our Peach girl. The story around the basic 
 3D Mario concept is quite nice. Pleasant, actually, is the best way to describe the happenings 
 of this galaxy. The entire game follows a continuous feel. A 'groove', if you will.
  
  The best outlet of the style in Super Mario Galaxy is in outstanding audio production. Not only 
 is a continual calming galaxy theme represented through numerous sound bytes and effects, the re-creation 
 of famous Mario tunes into yet-again epic orchestral pieces never fails to impress. The curiosity 
 of intergalactic travel and the gut-wrenchingly-adorable Lumas and star creatures are constantly 
 themed by the large abundance of visual flairs and effects coupled with appropriate sound. Small 
 things like a bright crash of star bits in the background play an enormous part in defining the 
 overall presentation and outstanding quality of Super Mario Galaxy. The game is filled at all points 
 with all the little cute Nintendo things that can't be resisted. The stars themselves are absolutely 
 adorable, gender-questionably adorable, sure; Mario's occasional gay moments with Grand Stars are 
 also quite questionable in a somewhat erotic manner but with everything so bright and happy it 
 can slide by un-noticed.
  
  The range of galaxies does great justice to the adventure of Super Mario Galaxy. The colour ratio 
 is amazing, with the continual collection of Star Bits via the Wii-mote cursor providing a constant 
 source of visual stimuli, it is always back set by a lavish world, be it a land of lava or a giant 
 ball of water in the sky - no galaxy failed to impress. As most should have learnt to accept from 
 Nintendo by now, a lot of creatures and worlds in Galaxy border on the extreme, questioning any 
 potential hallucinogenic use by Miyamoto and his quirky crew.
  
  Psychedelics aside, when it comes down to navigating the planets and stomping on Goombas, Mario 
 is handled much the same as before. The same pound jump, long jump, triple jump moves are used 
 as previous titles, with a swipe of the wiimote creating a circle-spin attack, as opposed to previous 
 punch-attack methods used by Mario. A variety of new power-ups and collectibles are available, 
 ranging from Bee Mario to Spring Mario and a whole bunch more I won't mention to savor the experience.
 
  
  The main difference to previous Mario titles is of course the use of planets, galaxies, and the 
 manipulation of. At first trekking the planets can be a tad daunting, but the opening level serves 
 as a good opportunity to grasp your mind around the gravitational dimensions in play. It was a 
 shame to find that while some platforms floating in space support Mario on every surface, allowing 
 him to walk up, down, around and upside-down; some platforms won't. It can be difficult at times 
 determining whether scooting Mario off the edge of a cliff will result in him flipping to the other 
 side, or being sucked into a black hole of oblivion. Usually the presence of a black hole will 
 signify the potential hazard, but it's not always easily noticed, especially with the shabby camera 
 controls.
  
  You'd think a game that so freely warps gravity and encourages 360 degree travel would have some 
 better camera manipulation support. While at most times the camera will move to support the necessary 
 field of view, any attempts at manually moving the camera will be defunct. Not always does a player 
 have the ability to move the camera at all - or even venture into first person view. When you actually 
 can move the camera, it's always in pre-determined distances, and when you need to jump to the 
 other side of a planet in one move it can be cumbersome, but such occasions are rare.
  
  Once all the game mechanics are familiarized in a manner very similar to past Mario outings, it's 
 time to hunt for stars. While Super Mario Galaxy takes the raw gameplay of previous 3D Mario adventures 
 and gives it a warranted twist, the core adventure here is the exact same as before. You have a 
 base, you choose a galaxy, choose a world and then pick the individual star to hunt for within 
 that world. Also as before, choosing a star will manipulate that world to a state and time that 
 makes getting the star possible. This time around though, choosing a star seems to variate the 
 world a lot more than before, sometimes presenting a completely different level from the word go. 
 This creates a lot less re-exploring bigger worlds, and a lot more stars based on a direct one-off 
 platforming path. As I've mentioned before the game generally is quite easy. To complete the story 
 adventure, not one star really gave a serious challenge and were easy to locate. If any star were 
 to give a challenge, you'll find so many extra lives throughout the game that even if you ran out 
 of your 38+ lives, a continue generally suffices anyway.
  
  With little real challenge throughout the Galaxy, the 2 player support really doesn't need to make 
 the game as marginally easier as it does. The 2nd player support is quite questionable. Manning 
 the 2nd Wii-mote will give you another cursor to point at things, and allow you to shoot valuable 
 star bits at whatever necessary. When timed right, 2 players can press A together to make Mario 
 jump higher. Fairly useless, at least it gives another person something to do while watching the 
 pretty colours. If you can find a situation where giving a friend or loved one a Wii-mote with 
 the abilities equivalent to attaching someone with an extra disfigured limb, then go for it.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is an amazing feat, a world of exploration that will keep anyone entertained 
 for hours. The large amount of stars assure a solid length of many worlds, each as exciting and 
 interesting as the last. The characters and Nintendo charm is immeasurable, the Luma star characters 
 alone carrying enough cutesy charm to bring the toughest biker thug to tears. If only there was 
 a bit more challenge, to slow the more seasoned gamers from chewing through each star one by one. 
 Fortunately there are so many stars that the infrequent annoyances are soon clouded in wonderful 
 presentation. Even though you're collecting stars as before, it has never been done this way, and 
 never will - until Nintendo redesign the gaming approach all over again.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy
  
  95%
  
  The Good -
  
  * Beautiful, lavish.
  * Amazing range 
 of worlds and new content
  * Almost instantly accessible by anyone.
  
  The Bad -
  
  * Easy!
  * Sometimes I was feeling a little TOO happy.
  * It will whet the insatiable appetite 
 for Brawl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Let's be honest with ourselves- the Wii hasn't exactly had a large number of real good games. There's 
 been Zelda, Metroid, and Paper Mario (to name a few) , but that's been just about it. Then Mario 
 Galaxy came along and made everyone happier. It was even better than expected and is likely the 
 best game we've yet seen on Wii. With breathtaking graphics, flawless controls, and excellent level 
 design with mindbending creativity, Galaxy is nothing short of the game that all other 3-D platformers 
 should model after (although they don't all necessarily need an outer space theme) . 
  
  Super Mario Galaxy's story isn't anything special, but it's more than was expected out of it. Of 
 course, Bowser is after Peach again and proceeds to rip out the castle from the ground it sat on. 
 Of course, our beloved hero wasn't about to let Bowser win that easily and managed to stay on the 
 ground taken with the castle, but got blasted off by a magikoopa, sending him to a space station 
 inhabited by lumas (little floating star people) led by Rosalina. Bowser had taken the grand stars 
 from the space station and hid the all the power stars from them, and Mario sets out to recover 
 the needed amount of stars to help the station travel to the center of the universe and help him 
 save his 'special one'. To go to the center of the universe, you must collect only 60 of the game's 
 120 stars, including the six grand stars, which isn't very challenging, but you will be challenged 
 if you go for all 120. 
  
  The level design in Galaxy is the best I have ever seen in a video game. You would think that the 
 outer space theme would get old after awhile, but Nintendo kept it fresh with so many different 
 puzzles and challenges that it didn't get old. The levels are so creative that you feel that the 
 game could have started an entirely new series. On almost all planets, you can go on the bottom 
 and sides of whatever you are standing on, which is also very cool. The controls are completely 
 flawless, using a small amount of buttons but accomplishing their jobs well. The best part is flicking 
 the remote (or nunchuk, if you so desire) to make Mario spin (which is his main attack) and activate 
 stars that shoot him to the next planet. You can also point at the screen to collect star bits 
 (little star-like objects) and another person can even join in and help you with a second remote. 
 There are seven boss battles in the game, three against Bowser Jr. and four against Bowser himself. 
 While the Bowser battles don't vary at all, they are good enough and have epic music playing in 
 the background, which was very cool. Speaking of music, the fully orchestrated soundtrack is amazing 
 as well, some of the best music I've ever heard in a game, and should definitely be realeased for 
 downloading, if not on a CD
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is, as far as video games go, nothing short of perfect, and it would be an abomination 
 to give it less than an 8/10 review. It is a masterpiece and is so fun and well-developed that 
 it is, without a doubt, one of the best Mario games (if not THE best) and very easily ranked among 
 the greatest games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trickshot2004
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  This has to be the best game out there. It has a perfect control setup and takes full advantage 
 of the Wii. I highly recommend that anyone with a Wii get this game NOW. The levels are perfectly 
 balanced so that in the beginning they are seemingly easy but as you progress in the game the level 
 difficulty increases with you. Visually this has got to be one of the best games on the Wii. I 
 absolutely love the subtle touches in the game, such as the old school music. I definitely heard 
 alot of music from the original Super Mario Bros. games.
  If you are looking for a quality game, you cannot go wrong with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gorebashd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  I am very new to the wii, only having got one 4 days ago for Christmas. I can tell you I was very 
 surprised how addictive (and tiring) this gaming system can be. 
  
  Now that thats over with, lets talk about the latest tale in Mario's adventure. I have played them 
 all since the original nes version. I have to say this game fits up there with the goodness that 
 is super Mario bros. All I can say is wow. The colors are vibrant and alive. The rendering is top 
 notched and the music is great.
  
  You are Mario and you must travel the galaxy to find and save your sweetheart Princess Peach from 
 the evil Bowser. Each world is vibrant and fun. The controls altho not taking the full use of the 
 wii's movement technology are still wonderful. From using the pointer, to spinning and using mario's 
 special forms. It is all well done and fairly easy to pick up. The difficulty increases at a manageable 
 rate so that you are not overwhelmed.
  
  I would say my only beef is that still to this day Mario barely talks. Being the age of great voice 
 actors i figured that Nintendo could spend the time and find the right person to do the voices. 
 ON the other hand i understand not wanting to screw it up as well. The bubbles are still effective 
 and give it that old school flavor. This complaint is more about my personal opinion then a real 
 complaint.
  
  This game is great for all ages, and I recommend it to all. Have fun and enjoy a piece that can 
 remind us of all the fun we had playing video games as kids... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseballboy6411
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  I dropped it a half-notch only because the camera and angles of viewing can be troublesome at times 
 and could have been improved. But the plusses of this game are well beyond any negs to its genius.
 
  
  Gameplay: Smooth. The Wii controls seem flawless to me, and they have to be in some of those more 
 difficult BOSS battles. Gravity on planets, strange angles, ups and downs, all easily navigated 
 with nearly the precision of Mario 64.
  
  Story: It is a Mario game, and the same Mario story just thrown into space. But saving Peach is 
 always a pleasure, and the game gives you hours of Bowser-bashing fun. There is a twist with the 
 stars that is well thought out and lengthy; good meat for a good game.
  
  Music: Classic -- uses all those old tunes flawlessly.
  
  Fun for everyone -- my five-year-old 
 gets as much fun and playability out of the game as I do. It caters to all levels of play... though 
 I doubt my little one could get past many of the harder sequences, it gives her a challenge... besides, 
 there are so many levels that she CAN demolish that she doesn't get too overcome when it comes 
 to the harder stuff.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atresac
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  I dropped it a half-notch only because the camera and angles of viewing can be troublesome at times 
 and could have been improved. But the plusses of this game are well beyond any negs to its genius.
 
  
  Gameplay: Smooth. The Wii controls seem flawless to me, and they have to be in some of those more 
 difficult BOSS battles. Gravity on planets, strange angles, ups and downs, all easily navigated 
 with nearly the precision of Mario 64.
  
  Story: It is a Mario game, and the same Mario story just thrown into space. But saving Peach is 
 always a pleasure, and the game gives you hours of Bowser-bashing fun. There is a twist with the 
 stars that is well thought out and lengthy; good meat for a good game.
  
  Music: Classic -- uses all those old tunes flawlessly.
  
  Fun for everyone -- my five-year-old 
 gets as much fun and playability out of the game as I do. It caters to all levels of play... though 
 I doubt my little one could get past many of the harder sequences, it gives her a challenge... besides, 
 there are so many levels that she CAN demolish that she doesn't get too overcome when it comes 
 to the harder stuff.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctores143
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  This game is utterly amazing. You start out in the star festival which happens every hundred years 
 and peach of course gets captured and then you have to get stars to power up the observatory to 
 find bowser in the center of the universe. The game does a great job of bringing back old music 
 and creating it for the perfect atmosphere. There also a great feeling the first time you get to 
 get to a galaxy. The controls work great too and if you played sunshine or mario 64 then teh contols 
 feel second nature.
  
  here are the basics:
  
  graphics:10 out of 10: The greaphics are amazing and fit the game perfectly
  
  gamplay:9.5 out 
 of 10: The game is fun and amazing but the only problem is some of the stars are realy easy to get 
 like 1 of them in a swimming level took mabey 10 seconds but others may take like 6 minutes so 
 it balences out. The coop is a nice feature but is a little boring. This is minor flaw though.
  
  overall:9.8 out of 10
  
  This game is fun and dont let the minor flaws keep you from getting 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nobarai
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  Remember when you played Super Mario 64 for the first time? All 3D and just fun to play? Put it 
 down. If you wanted a game to prove to everyone why they needed a wii, this is it.
  
  Presentation and control is nice, everything is well put together and with no bugs. Controls are 
 easy and innovative, It's all the same controls of super mario 64. Control stick moves Mario, A 
 jumps, and Z makes him crouch and makes him ground pound. But you can also use the wiimote to pick 
 up starbits, and shoot them at enemies to stun them, which is innovative, but sometimes confusing.
 
  
  Gameplay is just right. Mario does everything he's supposed to do flawlessly. He shoots through 
 space like a rocket to land on other planets, he spins like a top, he fly like a bee, and turns 
 into a ghost with the brand new suits. But older suits, such as the fire throwing Mario also makes 
 a comeback.
  
  Story is... Lackluster at best. It's there to guide you in the right direction, but that's it. But 
 it doesn't really hamper anything.
  
  The sound is spectacular! All new music tracks are beutifully made by the team over at Nintendo. 
 Mario also does all his needed SFX (Wah!, OOF!, Yipee! Etc.) .
  
  Overall, this game is perfect. You need to buy over any other game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altar360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  Mario has returned to what made him famous. In a platforming game that's sure to please fans and 
 new comers alike. The story is unoriginal in the sense that Princess Peach needs rescuing again. 
 But the setting is incredibly well designed and you get the sense of being in a whole other universe.
 
  
  The game-play is easy to pick up, and the story is simple and fun. As for the graphics, I can honestly 
 say that it's the best in the series. With it's awesome character models and flamboyant colours, 
 this game gives good tones on the levels with it's colors alone. Not to mention the musical score. 
 A collection of new and wonderful scores, plus remixed classics we all know and love. The camera 
 however is a little frustrating and it's a little too easy for heavy gamers like myself, but the 
 variety of game-play and great level design more than makes up for it.
  
  All and all Super Mario Galaxy is, in my opinion, the best in the series. With it's easy gameplay, 
 beautifully colorful graphics, wonderful music and great level design. This game promises to please 
 players for many years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikedaman21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  This is the new and exciting quest of the Mario video game franchise. Are you begging to think 
 Mario games are getting old and are too similar? Well, not this one. Super Mario Galaxy is an addictive, 
 nice looking, and great fun to play. 
  When first seeing it, it may look a little different, but it's game play is innovative and quite 
 surprising. Using the wii remote and nun chuck in this game is quite easy and Mario's moves are 
 similar, but new ones are added as well, of course there is single, double jump and ground pound, 
 but now you may jump and spin to stun enemies or climb vines. That last feature mentioned is obtained 
 early from a star/bunny character, and stunning enemies is helpful when your health is low, as 
 well as stunning them with star bits. Boss fights are a little difficult, but not too hard. The 
 first one includes a strategy where you must run away from the villain and chase it to hurt it 
 after spinning to make it hurt itself. Planets are varied and always something worth discovering, 
 almost at least innovative as Pikmin (Gamecube game) planets, with new enemies, scenarios and discoveries 
 on each one and as well as many galaxies to explore. This is a great choice made by Nintendo, they 
 have really outdone themselves and should be proud of their accomplishment. I think this was supposed 
 to be their Mario 128 (even though the system is supposed to have 256 bit graphics) . I have found 
 few or no faults, except possibly the limited help acquired. Definitely worth playing, so try it 
 and many should buy this spectacularly fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vista8
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2007 7:18 am PT
Review:  As we all know, Super Mario Sunshine sucked. So alot of people were nervuse about how good Super 
 Mario Galaxy would be. Don't worry, Super Mario Galaxy is the best mario game. EVER. Thats right, 
 even better than Super Mario 64. Super Mario Galaxy has very creative bosses. Some of the bosses 
 in Galaxy are simaler to the ones in Sunshine. If you have played Super Mario Sunshine, you may 
 remember Petey Piranha. In Galaxy, you fight an alien- dinosuar version of him. Also you may remember 
 Goober Bloober, the squid that shoots ink. In Galaxy, you fight something simaler, an octopuss 
 that shoots fire balls and rocks. I know they're not the same, but they're simaler. Another cool 
 thing is the power-ups. One new power-up is the Bee Mushroom. The Bee Mushroom gives Mario a bee 
 suit. The suit lets mario fly, and climb honeycombs. Another new thing is the Boo Mushroom. The 
 Boo Mushroom turns Mario into a Boo ( a ghost) . Boo Mario can float, and go through sertian things. 
 Another new thing is the Spring. Spring Mario can jump high. One more new thing is the Ice Flower. 
 The Ice Flower turnes Mario into Ice Mario. Ice Mario can frezze water. Do you remember the Fire 
 Flower? It's in the game too. The Fire Flower Mario into Fire Mario. Fire Mario can throw fire. 
 The last power-up is the Rainbow Star turnes Mario into Rainbow Mario. Rainbow Mario is invinsilble.
 
  Cool bosses, cool power-ups, great graphics, this game is the best Mario game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CherokeeXP
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 6:11 am PT
Review:  I recently purchased a Nintendo Wii and I am surprised at how much fun I am having.
  I have been a 'hardcore' PC gamer for many years, and its a shame to say I have been missing out 
 on fun games! By FUN, I mean games that are not ultra-realistic, games that do not boast the best 
 graphics in the world, but games that do what games were designed to do! Entertain the user.
  Super Mario Galaxy is a perfect example of a fun game!
  The game follows a familiar routine, 
 where Mario has to search for stars, only this time it is in different galaxies and not paintings 
 (as in Mario64) .
  The amazing thing is at no point in time do you ever think "All i'm doing is crossing galaxies 
 and gathering stars!". The game is so enthralling that no matter what you are doing, you are having 
 so much fun doing it! Each galaxy is very different from the next. Level designs are perfect, infact 
 they are some of the best I have ever seen. They do start of a bit simple, so if at first you are 
 disheartened by the difficulty level, do be patient because they do become trickier.
  SMG is a rare game in that I stuck with it from beginning to end and at no point did I want to 
 give up! There are many games out there that I have yet to complete, most lose my attention after 
 some time, but SMG is not one of those games.
  Buy it! You won't regret it.
  
  Graphics: For what it is, the graphics are very good. You can't compare games like this to Crysis. 
 For this reason I will give it a 9/10
  Gameplay: Amazing, keeps you playing for hours and hours. Does not get boring! 10/10
  Sound: 
 The soundtracks are very cool. Some old school mario tunes are given a funky touch and updated 
 for the new millenium. 9/10
  Story: As with most mario games, the story is lacking, but as I said, the gameplay is so great 
 that you never once care that the story is lacking! 2/10 BUT IT DOES NOT AFFECT THE GAME!
  Difficulty: My only gripe with this game is the difficulty. It can be too easy at times! It does 
 tend to get more difficult towards the end however.
  
  Overall I think SMG is one of the finest games ever made. Its hard to find a game this good! Games 
 like this justify my purchase of the Wii! I hope more Wii developers follow suit! (no more minigames 
 please!!) . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: juanoleso
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 5:24 am PT
Review:  Game play: 9.0
  Music:9.0
  Re-playability: 8.0
  Graphics:7.5
  Tilt: 9.5
  
  Game play/Summary:
  Mario Galaxy was a fun game all the way until Bowser's reign was ended. It 
 also has plenty of extra content to keep me excited, still. With the first levels being very easy 
 and the difficulty very gradually and steadily increasing, Nintendo is trying to bring more people 
 into the game. My only complaint is that it might have been too easy. Nintendo could've made later 
 stages more difficult for hardcore gamers to sink their teeth into. This game is safe to play in 
 front of the entire family, with only mild cartoon violence.
  
  Music:
  Fully orchestrated tracks are crisp and clear and the transition between tracks even during levels 
 is smooth and seamless. I especially enjoyed the music from the deep space levels.
  
  Re-Playability:
  I have spent plenty of time with this game. I would say it took me between 8 
 and 10 hours to collect all the stars with Mario and I am still playing with the extra content. 
 My whole family can enjoy playing this game which also adds additional playability.
  
  Graphics:
  One of my biggest complaints is that Wii graphics do not hold up to the other consoles 
 or a computer. The other side, though, is that the framerate is always consistant and never choppy 
 and the graphics are never pixelated or blocky. Do not pick this game up for the graphics, though.
 
  
  Conclusion:
  This is a definite buy. Right now, it stands as a classic in my mind. I will be picking this game 
 up and playing it even after the next Nintendo console comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fleshandblood10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 3:51 am PT
Review:  I haven't played a game so original in a very long time. this game is truly something new. the 
 game play is addictive beyond any previous mario, and the graphics are as good as they can bee 
 for a cartoon-like world. 
  
  Some levels like when in the water worlds are annoying as the controls can be frustrating however 
 apart from that the way it uses the wii-mote and the other controls are wonderfully incorporated. 
 
  
  I cant knock this game in any area really. its god elements to it which i have never seen before. 
 Its also widely playable for any age range, and offers a good amount of difficulty in places as 
 well. there are areas where i almost gave up out of being upset i couldn't do it, but no matter 
 how long a level went on for i always picked up the controller again half an hour later to try 
 again. you just cant stop!
  
  For a good one player game the Wii truly needed this game, its even fun to watch though if you 
 have more in the room. and even though the second player if used doesn't do much other than make 
 mario jump and collect star bits, its still something that makes the game more accessible to all.
 
  
  I love this game, its not the best game i have ever played but its certainly one of the most fun. 
 Its also not the highest priced game out there so its worth getting. 
  
  Heartily recommend it. The music is original, the characters are wonderful and the game play is 
 un-paralleled. If you haven't played a mario game before (which is hard in the modern world) then 
 this should be where you start. ITs god all the good bits from 64 plus more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daqua_99
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is a great game overall, being the best platformer and Wii game of this year. 
 The graphics are the best seen on the Wii, the level design is truly magnificent, story is as captivating 
 as ever and the sound is of top-notch quality. Even though this is a great game, there are a few 
 faults which can be found, such as that of ease and lack of longetivity.
  
  At the start of Super Mario Galaxy, you are invited to the once-in-a-century festival to celebrate 
 the comet which passes the Mushroom Kingdom, which had originally gave the Kingdom their Power 
 Stars. This goes all well until Bowser and his troopers again spoil the party and kidnap Princess 
 Peach, as well as slewing Mario into the vast depths of space.
  
  From here on, Mario must collect the power stars in order to rescue Princess Peach. Though this 
 is the aim in every Mario-platformer, it is made extremely entertaining through the fun design 
 of the quests and the overall great level design. The story also has a few side quests which are 
 completed through Mario's journey, and this also adds to the great overall story of the game.
 
  
  Whilst the story is great in the way that it not only sticks to the tried-and-true Mario formula, 
 as well as adding in different aspects, the main attention to the actual gameplay of this game 
 is the fact that it is fun to play. Even though the quests may be a little easy, they are enjoyable 
 and fun for anyone who wants to play it. The fun which the game brings is one of the reasons why 
 you will be drawn back to this game time and time again. This atmosphere is brought about through 
 the use of excellent level designs, music, quests and the atmosphere of the game.
  
  The graphics of this game are top-notch. You would be hard-beat to find a Wii game which looks 
 better generally. Everything about this game looks beautiful, such as the water, the space which 
 you travel through and the design of the enemies.
  
  The main things which makes this game stand out from the crowd, though, is the unique level designs 
 and new mechanics which are brought in which are utilised together to make the game fun.
  
  The level design is of upmost quality in every last one. Whilst the worlds themselves may not be 
 big, they are immensely detailed and are put together in a way that even though you are going into 
 the same level (called galaxies) about 5-6 times, every time you enter it is different, and you 
 get access to different places. This makes the same world feel different every time you visit it, 
 and thus makes it more unique. Even though it is a little linear, it reflects the genre of the 
 game a lot, in that it revolves around jumping, finding items and beating bosses rather then exploration 
 of vast areas.
  
  The new mechanic which is brought into this game to add uniqueness is the essence of gravity. The 
 gravity really adds a new dimension to the game in that it allows for more challenging puzzles 
 and a generally more entertaining gameplay. The essence of gravity has an impact on the majority 
 of the quests which must be completed, and is utilised in a unique way to make the game fun.
  
  The controls in this game are very good in general. Super Mario Galaxy is a game which doesn't 
 really need the unique features of the Wii-remote to work well, but once they are implemented they 
 feel like they are necessary. The ease of just waving the pointer over specific items may not seem 
 like much, but it is a whole lot easier then having to pick each up individually.
  
  An under valued aspect of this game is the sound. The sound is superb, as it both helps to set 
 the atmosphere of the level as well as give the game an upbeat, fun feel to it. Even through the 
 most challenging boss battles, the music is still upbeat and is one of the main reasons why this 
 game is fun and as enjoyable as it is.
  
  One of the unique features of this platformer is the ability to play co-op (sort of) . This idea 
 is great in the way that the second person can help with challenges, collect items and point things 
 out, though it doesn't really add much to the overall game.
  
  Even though this game is great overall, there are a few drawbacks which can really hinder the gameplay 
 and overall enjoyment of the game. These include the camera, ease of the game and lack of longetivity.
 
  
  The camera works well in most cases, don't get me wrong, and it is fine and works to the games 
 advantage mainly. That being said, there are some times when the camera can get in a position which 
 would not be the best, and as there is very limited camera control, this can harm you if you need 
 to do specific things in that area.
  
  The main drawback is the overall ease of the game. The game is quite easy off the bench, and only 
 gets slightly harder as the game goes on. That being said, to collect the entire 120 stars in very 
 hard to do and the later stars, and especially the hidden stars, can be very difficult, but the 
 main story of the game is not hard to pass at all, and you have to be unlucky to have a 'Game Over'.
 
  
  Another drawback which has come to my attention is the relative short time it will take to finish 
 the game. The game has a length of about 25-30 hours to complete it 100%, and for a much-hyped 
 game, I personally expected it to be longer then that. That being said, it makes up for it in that 
 it is a very fun game to play while it lasts.
  
  Other minor drawbacks that should be noted include the inability to save the amounts of lives you 
 have, some quests are very short and easy and the fact that you cannot explore an entire galaxy 
 at once. Though these are only minor, they are necessary to be noted.
  
  Overall, Super Mario Galaxy is a great game which is overly fun and has great graphics, design, 
 music and story. I would recommend it to anyone who owns a Wii and likes platformers.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VikingLord13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  "SUPER MARIO GALAXY! Mario exclaims on the wii menu. That sums up the game right there. It's 
 got a great storyline, and on my game there have been no glitches. The music in the game is very 
 epic. You can hear it on Youtube. The graphics are FANTASTIC! It looks like something on the X-BOX 
 360 or Playstation 3. Also the game is very responsive. I have never had a spin not work. And on 
 top of that it has multiplayer! Well, sort of. It's really a Co-op mode. And really the second 
 player is just another cursor. But they, if used correctly, can be very helpful to player one. 
 My only problem with the game, and I hate to have to say it's a problem, is the difficulty. The 
 levels are easy, and if you actually take your time to collect the stars, like not skip them at 
 all EVER, then you can open new Domes (transporter to galaxies) and have all the galaxies unlocked. 
 I think that the Wii is trying so much to be a family console that they decided that if the game 
 was to hard that some of the younger kids might get upset. Anyway this is a 1st rate game and if 
 you have a Wii without this game get it NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mike0193
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game. It is a lot of fun to play. The worlds are cool and very detailed. You'll really 
 be supprized with how great they are, and look. The gameplay is awesome. The costumes are great 
 and very creative. THe monsters could be a bit easy to kill, but they each have their own way of 
 being beaten. This game has a lot of cool music (including all of the classic ones) . The music 
 is really used at all the best times, and all of the best ways. THis is a must have for any Wii 
 owner. Especially if you're a mario lover. Anyone would be impressed with this game! I was really 
 impressed with it and am very happy to have boughten it. Plus i loved that a second player could 
 join at any point in the game and assist. The second player could collect the litlle colored things, 
 block of enemies, and use the collected to shoot at enemies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karate460
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  This game makes a very strong impact on those who play it. Hands down Super Mario Galaxy has the 
 best graphics for the Wii. That only is the icing to the cake when you look at the game play. At 
 the start the way you run around the worlds gets confusing, though later it only adds to how fun 
 the game is. The boss fights in the game are also a ton of fun. Finding out how to win a boss battle 
 is very strategical, yet it is not impossible to figure out. One of the features which makes it 
 unique is using the Wii remote to move your character and pick up the Star Bits. It is fun because 
 while you are running around you are also using the other hand to collect objects. The best part 
 is how the attacks are done by shaking the remote. this makes it a lot of fun to use. If you are 
 thinking whether to buy the game or just rent it first, let me give you some advise. This game 
 does not need renting. You will be so pleased with it that you will enjoy spending your money on 
 it. This game is one game that every Wii owner should have in their collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ComanderDoom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is a really entertaining game that everyone should try out. It was just great. 
 I would say it was the best game I ever played. The gameplay was excellent. Flying around planets, 
 breaking the rules of physics, it's all so fun! There's about 20 different galaxies to visit, each 
 with about 6 missions to do in each. There were really neat power-ups added to this game, such 
 as the honey mushroom, which allows you to become a bee, the red star, which allows you to fly, 
 and many other things. The graphics were beautiful. Everything was so detailed, and nothing looked 
 boxy. This game has really good graphics. Now, it'll likely take you 10-15 hours to pass the game 
 with the minimum amount of stars you need, but if you go back and get them, you will probably be 
 entertained with this game for a while. So, if you have a Wii, this game is a MUST. Go buy it now! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johno1995
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  Believe it or not, I love Halo. But Halo 3 was beat as best game of the year when Galaxy hit store 
 shelves. Mario Galaxy combines classic platforming elements with some gravitational ideas, fun 
 boss battles, and easy pick-up-and-play controls (my mom, aunt, 6-year old cousin and 4-year old 
 brother all play too!) . 
  
  The game offers a fluid and beautiful presentation with a stellar menu, some good Mii integration 
 and WiiConnect 24 possibilities at your use.
  
  PRESENTATION: 9.5/10
  
  The graphics in the game are some of the best on the Wii - I'll even go out and say they look beautiful 
 enough to be a PlayStation 3 title. There I said it! That's how beautiful Super Mario Galaxy is. 
 If you don't believe me, try it yourself. 
  
  GRAPHICS: 9.5/10
  
  The gameplay is where the game truly shines. It offers some wonderfully original platforming elements 
 along with the sense of gravity so you can run around three-dimentional spheres. Did I mention 
 that the boss battles and enemies are original and fun? Trust me, they are. The game offers some 
 of the best ideas on the Wii, and maybe on any system thus far.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 10/10
  
  There is a lot of nice effects, fluidly beautiful music to match the theme and SOME voice work. 
 All this makes it seem like a Mario movie during cutscenes and such.
  
  SOUND: 9.5/10
  
  The game will last you a VERY long time. Getting all 120 stars, unlocking a playable Luigi 
 and defeating all the bosses will take you a long time. With WiiConnect 24 features and everything 
 else, that even lengthens the replay value of an already long game.
  
  LASTING APPEAL: 10/10
  
  So you see, Super Mario Galaxy is THE game of the year. It offers 
 some fluid, beautiful visuals packed with fun gameplay and other nice features. A must-have. Don't 
 buy the "good" deal games (Game Party, Elevator Action for example) just because of their low price. 
 Buy the REAL games like this game so the one you're buying for isn't disappointed with any of those 
 crappy games.
  
  To sum it up, Super Mario Galaxy is the best game I ever played and I will cherish it for years 
 to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metabeau
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 5:52 am PT
Review:  Nintendo have done it again; Mario Galaxy is the ultimate Mario game. Nobody can deny that because 
 it just is.
  
  I may not have got very far into the game, but I can tell that it is a brilliant game. Mario Galaxy 
 is basically Mario 64 but in the future (which is a good place to set a game these days) . Mario 
 Galaxy is a bit easy, but that can be changed by the odd comet (if you have got Mario Galaxy then 
 you will understand what that means) . The game plays very smoothly and there are no loading screens 
 (yay!)
  
  The graphics are great, you get more out of it than you paid for (no matter how much you paid for 
 it) , the controls are superb, the game is very addictive and the game itself is perfect in almost 
 every single way! I have never played a game as good as this.
  
  What more could you want from a Mario game? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pacuuuuu3
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Well, Super Mario Galaxy is just what I expected, this game rocks!!!! It's just awesome. It's really 
 hard to describe how good it is, but anyways, I think we should start the review of this awesome 
 game:
  Graphics: Well, I know the graphics are not the most important, but in this game, they just look 
 colorful. They actually could look better though, it's not ps3 but it doesn't matter, the graphics 
 are fine for the type of game:
  9/10
  Addiction: Cmmon, this game is one of the most addictive games I've ever played, and maybe the 
 most addictive:
  10/10
  Replay Value: As you may know, you can complete the main story with only 60 stars, but the game 
 actually continues with a lot of more stars, and I actually don't know the total of stars in the 
 whole game, but I think it's something like 120 or something like that:
  10/10
  Sound: The sound in this game it's absolutely awesome, some are pretty original and some others 
 are really cool and nostalgic remixes:
  10/10
  Story: As you may know, most Mario games have a neutral story, and the truth is that this game 
 actually deserves a 10, but the story is just neutral, if you expect an entertaining story, buy 
 tales of symphonia:
  7/10
  Total:
  9.2/10
  Conclusion: This game is indeed the best game I've ever played, but the story is not just taht 
 good and it made a bad average of Super Mario Galaxy, just don't think bad of my reviews, I loved 
 this game!
  Thanx for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2008 2:22 am PT
Review:  Nintendo always does it with Mario. It redefined platform games back in the 8-bit days and it redefines 
 platforming even now. Super Mario Galaxy is an amazing game and I was waiting for it ever since 
 I saw that first trailer. What really struck me about this game was how those levels looked. At 
 first, I thought it was just a CGI video because the game looked amazing and no game on any console 
 can look that good. Later on I found out that it was the actual gameplay. I thought Super Mario 
 Sunshine looked great but Galaxy is a visual masterpiece and Nintendo really outdid themselves 
 with this game. I still consider Super Mario Sunshine to be my favorite game of all time. It was 
 still a great game to play and it had some nice looking water. The story remains the same. Bowser 
 kidnapped Peach from her castle and Mario has to save her AGAIN. Only this time, he takes the castle 
 with him on some UFO thing. You meet another princess named Rosalina and her purpose is to restore 
 power to the galaxy with the help of these littie chubby stars named Lumas. Another cool thing 
 about Galaxy is that you get that nostalgic feeling when those old Super Mario songs start playing. 
 Mostly songs from Super Mario Bros. 3. Almost all the music in the game is orchestral and very 
 well done and they fit the galaxies to perfectly. Super Mario Galaxy is an amazing game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fan211
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Mario has a new game and style in this game. Here you control MArio (LAter Luigi) and fight your 
 way through out the 6 galaxies, this game is worth the $50 and will not disapoint you as the six 
 levels are more challenging and harder. As well as the Challenges which makes your mind CRAZY! 
 All of them require skill and this game will surely not disappoint.
  
  Sound-
  It is the Best to hear and some catchy beats are in this which is a top notch sound. Your never 
 get the beats out of your head. And your sing it in everywhere.
  
  Graphics- 
  Mario gets better and better in appearance and is evolved in modern technology. You never see Mario 
 as his old self.
  
  Controls-
  The controls are easy to get to. And will not trouble you, hell if there was a test about the controls 
 of SMG then you'll ace it. Remember the controls of Super Mario Galaxy are easy to get into and 
 not difficult if they are then your probably a 360/PS3 User. 
  
  Gameplay-
  The mission are easy and the Speed Challenges (For Example) are a brain challenge. So you'll probably 
 be on your toes on some levels. Once you'll know it 3 hours to you will be 30 minutes. Two-Player 
 may seem a bit awful to you but teamwork will make the game faster for you and the whole idea of 
 jumping planets is not a dumb concept but a smart one. 
  
  Overall-
  This game is really worth the $50, and should be picked up and played in order to stall time for 
 Super Smash Bros. Brawl which should be a another great game and the gameplay for you is greatand 
 this will take sometime to complete. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seniorDK
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  The Good: hits the standards for a super mario game, awesome gameplay, awesome graphics, 
  
  The Bad: hey its a super mario game, what could be bad about it?
  
  Alright some how they 
 always get the super mario games right, super mario 64: rules, super mario sunshine, rules!, super 
 mario GALAXY rules !!!.
  This right here is why we love mario, it feels like this system was made for this game, it just 
 feels so smooth and perfect when im playing it,
  As far as platforms go this game really takes the cake, you get on little comets evey five seconeds 
 what more in a platform can you ask for, theres alot i can say, but im mean really the game speaks 
 for its self, if you are a mario fan, own a wii, or who is lookin for a game thats revolutionary 
 than pick up a copy, this is really one of the first games this year that is warth 50 bucks in 
 my opnion. 
  I give this game a.........10.0, and i hardly ever give games perfect scores, so you should nkow 
 this game is good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tigertina
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  I was skeptical about how much I would enjoy this game. I thought it might be cute and at first, 
 it seems just a cute game. Lots of character dialog at the beginning which put me off, which made 
 me even more skeptical that I would like this game. However, once I started playing, seemed standard 
 video game fare. Before I knew it, I was already in the second galaxy and telling my friends and 
 family to start playing this game because its awesome. Its unbelievably fun with intuitive game 
 play. 
  
  The graphics are vibrant. Controls work famously. Soundtrack is delightful. Lots of stages and 
 tons of stars to locate. This game should appeal to both newcomers to video game or WII newbies, 
 as well as experienced players. 
  
  The bad part is trying to use the special Mario suits. They can be annoying to use sometimes, eg 
 the bee suit, if you touch water, the bee suit disappears and so you have to retrieve it in order 
 to use it again. But on the other hand, it does add another dimension of challenge which make the 
 game that much more enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathew952
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games on the Wii console. 
  
  1. The graphics look great in spite of the wii not being very technically powerful, the art direction 
 is great, the edges and lines are Anti Aliased, and the colors are vibrant. The models are fluent 
 and animated well. The camera is average, and sometimes doesn't zoom in enough, but that is a total 
 nitpick.
  
  2. The Sound is fitting to levels, and isn't repetitive or recycled. It is just the right volume 
 that you can hear everything. The voice acting..... Well, there is a total of maybe 20 lines in 
 the whole game, so it really doesn't matter.
  
  3. The Game play is great. I don't really like platformers, but even I loved this. It's always clear 
 what you are supposed to do. The levels are quick, like 4 to 5 minutes maybe, so you'll constantly 
 be exploring new areas and planets. The addition of starbits a welcome addition, and allow you 
 to stun enemies, or pay "Tolls' to in game characters.
  
  4. The controls work great, and feel like they were built from the ground up to take advantage 
 of the motion sensing, which is breath of fresh air as opposed to the 100's of bad ports. They 
 are very reliable, and make sense, and are easy to execute.
  
  5. The story isn't great, but in all honesty , it doesn't need story. The princess got kidnapped. 
 again. go save her. good enough.
  
  It's really just a symbol of the wii: Innovative, Different, bright, easy to use, and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelseyjb
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 26, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  i was like this is a fun game then it became frustrating i cant stand when a game gets you all 
 into it and then boom here comes all the hard stuff this is suppose to be a game thats easy to 
 pick up but no the suits in the game are hard to use some levels when you start you die before 
 you can get to the middle of a level and when are they going to stop putting mario on water missions 
 its not fun nintendo the race against the ghost were you have to follow the stars and all those 
 spiked rocks are around no matter what you hit them or you just run into something and the game 
 after a while just stop being fun i dont know about the people who beat it mybe i have a broken 
 one but im taking it and trade it in im not happy with this game i dont want a game thats really 
 suppose to be for kids be so difficult and not fun i rather play ratchent and clank on my ps3 at 
 least i can beat it all those levels on mario are designed to keep you dying so it can have a high 
 reply value im done with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link_Destined_1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 5:36 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Sunshine, Mario's main adventure for the GameCube, wasn't all that impressive, far 
 from the successor to Super Mario 64 that we've waited for.
  
  Well, we have it at last. Super Mario Galaxy. It's beautiful, amazing, and most importantly, incredibly 
 fun to play. Let's check it out, shall we?
  
  Graphics: Simply splendid. The amount of detail in the game is quite incredible. Among other things, 
 you can see every scale on Bowser's scaly body. Yes, Bowser is at it again. Not much to say here. 
 The variety of worlds makes each level quite unique.
  
  Story: Not much to it. Bowser kidnaps princess, Mario must save Princess. Classic Mario. But the 
 side story, revealed in the Storybook, may be a bit more interested.
  
  Sound/Music: One of my few gripes with this game is the few bits of voice acting in this game. 
 It's a bit on the annoying side (except Bowser, his voice always kicks arse) and it may get on 
 your nerves after a bit. But the music is nostalgia on overdrive. You'll hear classic tunes from 
 all your favorites, mostly Super Mario Bros., Super Mario Bros. 3, and Super Mario 64, all remixed. 
 But the original music is cool too, including the epic Latin-choir style music that accompanies 
 every fight against Bowser.
  
  Gameplay: Mario controls pretty much like he did in Sunshine and 64, but instead of martial arts 
 or a water cannon, he gets the ability to spin. This ability has a myriad of purposes, both as 
 a tool and as a weapon. But what makes this game shine is how well it takes the idea of gravity 
 bending, usually a part of a single level, and inputting it so well into an entire game. Many levels 
 will make you forget which was is up. My one gripe is the limited used of camera repositioning. 
 Some things would just be easier if you could shift the camera more often. But usually I don't 
 need to anyway.
  
  Replayability: I haven't finished the game yet, but even after doing everything, it's just fun 
 to experience the magic of this game again and again. 
  
  So, here's a recap of my goods and bads:
  
  Good: Awesome graphics, wonderful gravity-bending, 
 directional-confusing fun, music brings back memories, most sounds are fine.
  
  Bad: Voice acting on the annoying side, camera occasionally inconvenient.
  
  Rating: Aside 
 from the mediocre voice acting and not-quite-perfect camera, the only reason you SHOULDN'T get 
 this game is that you hate Nintendo. But then you're just being a rabid fanboy. Super Mario Galaxy 
 is a game worthy of standing by the likes of Final Fantasy VII and Zelda: Ocarina of Time as one 
 of the greatest games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick31189
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2007 9:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is fantastic. Its got great level designs. The Game runs so smooth, and is easily the 
 most beautiful game out for the wii. This game is fantastic. Its got great level designs. The Game 
 runs so smooth, and is easily the most beautiful game out for the wii. This game is fantastic. 
 Its got great level designs. The Game runs so smooth, and is easily the most beautiful game out 
 for the wii. This game is fantastic. Its got great level designs. The Game runs so smooth, and 
 is easily the most beautiful game out for the wii. This game is fantastic. Its got great level 
 designs. The Game runs so smooth, and is easily the most beautiful game out for the wii. This game 
 is fantastic. Its got great level designs. The Game runs so smooth, and is easily the most beautiful 
 game out for the wii. This game is fantastic. Its got great level designs. The Game runs so smooth, 
 and is easily the most beautiful game out for the wii. This game is fantastic. Its got great level 
 designs. The Game runs so smooth, and is easily the most beautiful game out for the wii. This game 
 is fantastic. Its got great level designs. The Game runs so smooth, and is easily the most beautiful 
 game out for the wii. This game is fantastic. Its got great level designs. The Game runs so smooth, 
 and is easily the most beautiful game out for the wii. This game is fantastic. Its got great level 
 designs. The Game runs so smooth, and is easily the most beautiful game out for the wii. This game 
 is fantastic. Its got great level designs. The Game runs so smooth, and is easily the most beautiful 
 game out for the wii. This game is fantastic. Its got great level designs. The Game runs so smooth, 
 and is easily the most beautiful game out for the wii. This game is fantastic. Its got great level 
 designs. The Game runs so smooth, and is easily the most beautiful game out for the wii. This game 
 is fantastic. Its got great level designs. The Game runs so smooth, and is easily the most beautiful 
 game out for the wii. This game is fantastic. Its got great level designs. The Game runs so smooth, 
 and is easily the most beautiful game out for the wii. This game is fantastic. Its got great level 
 designs. The Game runs so smooth, and is easily the most beautiful game out for the wii. This game 
 is fantastic. Its got great level designs. The Game runs so smooth, and is easily the most beautiful 
 game out for the wii. This game is fantastic. Its got great level designs. The Game runs so smooth, 
 and is easily the most beautiful game out for the wii. This game is fantastic. Its got great level 
 designs. The Game runs so smooth, and is easily the most beautiful game out for the wii. This game 
 is fantastic. Its got great level designs. The Game runs so smooth, and is easily the most beautiful 
 game out for the wii. This game is fantastic. Its got great level designs. The Game runs so smooth, 
 and is easily the most beautiful game out for the wii. This game is fantastic. Its got great level 
 designs. The Game runs so smooth, and is easily the most beautiful game out for the wii. This game 
 is fantastic. Its got great level designs. The Game runs so smooth, and is easily the most beautiful 
 game out for the wii. This game is fantastic. Its got great level designs. The Game runs so smooth, 
 and is easily the most beautiful game out for the wii. This game is fantastic. Its got great level 
 designs. The Game runs so smooth, and is easily the most beautiful game out for the wii. This game 
 is fantastic. Its got great level designs. The Game runs so smooth, and is easily the most beautiful 
 game out for the wii. This game is fantastic. Its got great level designs. The Game runs so smooth, 
 and is easily the most beautiful game out for the wii. This game is fantastic. Its got great level 
 designs. The Game runs so smooth, and is easily the most beautiful game out for the wii. This game 
 is fantastic. Its got great level designs. The Game runs so smooth, and is easily the most beautiful 
 game out for the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bjdj96
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun and the controls are easy to learn. The graphics are very good to. You 
 could do more stuff like shoot stuff and other crazy stuff. I think the problem is that the levels 
 are too short but this games is still good. This is a great game for kids and i like the 2 player 
 mode and all the transformations are cool too like the bee transformation. This game and Super Smash 
 Bros Brawl will be the best games for the wii. This game even beats Mario and Sonic Olympic Games. Mabye 
 they should make a Sonic Game like this. This is the number 1 best buy for the wii. Everybody who 
 has a wii get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lednight
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  Nintendo's newest Mario game Galaxy has finally come to play but how much fun is it to save the 
 princess once again?
  
  well i think you may already know the answer to that by looking at other reviews and yes its true 
 Galaxy delivers Mario to you in a all new Mario way although there are also a few minor things 
 that do get this game point value off. 
  
  Don't get me wrong though Super Mario Galaxy is a must buy for any gamer and/or non-gamer out there 
 if they have a Wii. So if your looking too see whether to buy this game or not, I am not going 
 to waste your time.
  
  BUY THIS GAME!!!
  
  I just like to start off with certain elements that I thought Galaxy didn't deliver well enough 
 for me.
  
  Miscellous... If you played sunshine and like its style of Mario you will need to adjust to this 
 one. Mario may look like a game for little kids to some "gamers" but in truth is starting to get 
 a little more mature in this came, and the boss battle is epic in more ways then one if anything 
 I say Nintendo is making thier games more Epic then Mature and thats not a bad thing its a great 
 thing. As well Nintendo could have add some extra content like mini games or at least a sound test 
 would be nice.
  
  
  
  the story ... i know that Mario games have nor always been on the deep story side like say LOZ 
 or FF , but I barely found out what Bowser's plan was till the very end of the game ... and even 
 now I don't really understand it. other then a few plot holes that are VERY LOOSELY tie up tit 
 still manages to create a wonderful story and besides games are about gameplay right? so i give 
 it about a 
  5/10
  
  Camera angles and control... camera angles are always a flaw in many games , I'm not saying the 
 camera angles are horrible just some times i could see what I wanted to see even when controlling 
 them. And when playing through the game I sometimes got dizzy from it . Over all though they were 
 positioned well. As for control I was surprise how natural it felt to hold the control and the 
 only difficult i had was with certain stars that use a different mec. ,but anyone can master it 
 with time.. so all in all 
  8/10 
  
  Graphics.. I'm not the one for graphics really but Galaxy has a charming design of levels and a 
 overall colorful feel through out. So galaxy sucks you in so much that one won't really care if 
 they weren't "HD graphics" but so what its about gameplay that counts the most but you also want 
 it to look pretty and galaxy does that 
  10/10
  
  soundtrack ... Original, remixed fun and off the beat fun to listen too. You may find your self 
 playing levels just for the music! 
  10/10
  
  Gameplay... This is the most important part in any game PERIOD. And Galaxy seems to make the Mario 
 franchise sayThere Back , baby!" yes Nintendo makes there games that will still remain in our 
 minds for a long time. and its so fun that you will want to play levels over and over again just 
 to go through the crazy level design and get some star bits! 
  10/10 
  
  
  Overall.. I give this game a 9.4 /10.0 
  its fun, new exciting and epic! You be crazy to miss 
 it that bad part is it ends and the story doesn't really draw you in and if you liked Sunshine 
 style of Mario more you may be in for a little disappoint but only a little.
  
  And as Mario would say! "Thank you for playing my game"
  
  And thank you for reading my review 
 (sorry for any spelling and grammar errors; As well as my first review) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fabz_95
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2007 5:54 am PT
Review:  When I first played this game I thought that so far it was perfect but it may get slightly worse 
 at a certain part which would stop me from giving it a 10
  But I was wrong, through out the whole game it just gets better and better and will keep the "Wow" 
 factor on through out the whole game!
  So you start with Mario running through a path with flowers on the side of him. Immediately the 
 game looks beautiful if you look at the scenery as there is a meteor shower and lots of stars are 
 falling down and the game is so lively from the first scene! Then the game justs gets better!
 
  Theres a great cut scene of Bowser coming in and attacking the castle which really looks great 
 and then meteors started falling down at you and ramming into the floor and the whole place goes 
 into panic and all the toads start going a bit crazy which just makes the game feel so alive and 
 is just a great start to the game.
  Through out the game the graphics will continue to wow you, especially the water scenes, as the 
 it looks so realistic with every single ripple put into it, especially when light shines on the 
 water and it reflects off, it just shows how much work and effort has been put into the graphics.
 
  This is definitely the best looking wii game so if your friends have always been teasing the wii 
 about its graphics you can finally show them a game with graphics that can be considered as next 
 gen. This game proves that the wii is not last gen technology as you can tell just by looking at 
 the game that this is something that the Ps2/GC/Xbox can't do!
  Well Mario games have always been about the gameplay. The controls are extremely easy to pick up 
 and anyone an use it. Use A to jump, B to shoot stars that you collect, shake the wiimote to attack 
 and the analog stick to move. These are the basic controls (there are some advanced controls such 
 as somersaults and long jumps) .
  To kill your enemies, you can jump on them or you can attack them buy shaking the wiimote which 
 stuns them, and then you can just run into them to finish your enemy off. The game puts great use 
 to the wii remote on levels such as the manta ray level as you twist the wii remote to control 
 your manta ray when you are surfing through the level which is extremely fun and is one of the 
 best levels in the game.
  There are also some parts where you have to point the wiimote to launch yourself out of a cannon 
 and when you shoot star bits at your enemies to stun them and to climb flower vines by shaking 
 the wii remot, the faster you shake, the faster you climb the plant vine.
  The reason the game is so special is because of the games level design. If you took out mario from 
 the game, it would still be a great game because the different types of planets is what makes the 
 game so special and amazing. There are bee planets, haunted house planets, desert planets, an underwater 
 planet and so much more. Theres so many different type of planets and there is so much diversity 
 that its too hard to fit them all in this review.
  One great thing is the different kind of suits, my favourite being the Boo Mario suit. There is 
 the rainbow suit which makes you invincible, the Boo Mario Suit which lets you go through bars 
 and certain walls, the bee mario suit lets you fly and stick to honeycombs (but ironically when 
 you touch the water you lose the suit) . There are many other suits such as the Fire mario suit 
 and the ice suit which makes the game so interesting, the different suits is a part of the game 
 that I look forward to so much! I always think "I can't wait until I get a new suit".
  The game has tonnes of replay value as there are 60 stars to complete the game, 60 extra stars 
 which makes a whopping 120 stars and then when you get 120 (SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER ) you 
 can play the game as (SPOILER, don't look if you don't want to know I'm warning you know) Luigi!
 
  There is also a lot of moments when the game makes refernces to the past games such as using green 
 shells, red shells, old enemies such as the Magikoopas makes the game a lot more interesting.
 
  The music is also great as there are a lot more new music in the game which is very original and 
 the music really suits the planets in the game but the best music is when they use old classic 
 mario tunes, a lot of the music from one of the best mario games, Super mario bros 3! So the game 
 is really a treat to listen to, just like other mario games!
  So overall this is definitely the best wii game out there, with the best controls, greatest graphics 
 on wii. Theres tonnes of replay value and all the different types of planets and suits just makes 
 this the perfect platformer and just because of the nostalgia of the references that the game makes 
 to previous mario games makes this a must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrDziekuje
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  After mixed reactions about Super Mario Sunshine, gamers were expecting something huge in the plumber's 
 next adventure as compensation. They got what they wanted in Super Mario Galaxy.
  Galaxy follows tradition of previous Mario games, not having a deep story to play along to and 
 you can get the gist of it in just a few setences. Mario is on his way to visit Peach during a 
 once-in-a-century festival when Bowser crashes the party, taking peach and the castle with him. 
 Mario, who is unable to hang on to the castle wakes up on a small planetoid to see a small star-like 
 creature called a Lumo floating before him. After a quick game of tag, the Lumo and it's Lumo friends 
 lead Mario to a princess named Rosalina. Rosalina tells Mario that she and Lumos live on an observatory 
 that flys through space and that, with his assistance, she can take him to save Peach. Now Mario 
 must collect the power stars in order to power the ship and save his lady.
  Gameplay is top-notch and the gravity effects are like nothing you've ever experienced. As Mario 
 runs and jumps upon certain planetoids, he will be held to the surface no matter what side he's 
 on, as if he was standing on normal ground the whole time. For example, you can hurl yourself off 
 the top of a certain castle, over the edge of the planet, only to be whipped upside down and land 
 on the bottom. You can then go about you business as if that was an every day thing. The game makes 
 great use of the Wii Remote, not relying on motion controll, but still utilizing it in an enjoyable 
 way that works well. Difficulty is fine, not as hard as Mario 64, but it still has levels that 
 you'll have to spend a few lives on towards the end of the initial 120 stars. And I'm sure most 
 of you have heard by now, but there is a second character you can play as and he controls a bit 
 differently and poses more of a challenge.
  Sound is terrific. The music consists of some orchestrated music and some arranged. There's a good 
 selection of new tunes as well as some returning series favorites. Charles Martinet provides Mario's 
 vocal chords once again, Rosalina utters a few one liners like "Let us begin." in the library, 
 and Peach narrates her letter to Mario in the very beginning but that's pretty much it in the way 
 of voice acting. Bowser trades his corny Sunshine voice for the dragon-like roars of old, which, 
 I think everyone can agree, is a plus.
  The graphics are probably the best the Wii has to offer, with a lovable art style and models and 
 environments that put anything last gen to shame. The environments are large, switching between 
 the gravity defying planetoids and flat platforming areas, which won't be as forgiving if you decide 
 to throw yourself off a ledge.
  Super Mario Galaxy is easily one of the best games available for the Wii or any current generation 
 system and is certainly a must have for Wii owners. Those who go without are missing out on a lengthy 
 adventure that is fun for anybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supercoolgamer
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Wow! Nothing is currently better than this game and it's almost impossible to top it! The graphics 
 are nice. Bosses are well made. Every level is fun. Bowser levels really nice. What can I say? 
 Everything here is amazing.
  
  Jump in to Super Mario Galaxy for a gravity shifting experience on the Nintendo Wii! This is easily 
 the best Mario game yet and easily one of the best Wii games. This game is better than any PS3 
 or 360 games. This game is definately worth buying for Wii owners and is one of many great reasons 
 to get a Wii if you don't have one.
  
  The main thing that differs this game from other Mario games, is the gravity. On some levels, like 
 Bowser's Dark Matter Plant, the gravity sometimes goes down, up, left, or right! In these cases, 
 the levels get really confusing, and really fun!
  
  The difficulty is just right for anyone, as there are easy levels, medium levels, hard levels, 
 and seemingly impossible levels (for those of you who beat most games in a day) . 
  
  In conclusion, no game from the PS3 or the 360 can challenge this game. There may be some Wii games 
 that are better, but this game is still an completely awesome game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YuDaon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  This game totaly changed my whole view on Mario games. It doesnt matter if they are childish, its 
 too awesome to resist. The controls, plotline, and stages are mindblowing.
  
  The story is totally buy worthy. And as you guessed it, its a "Rescue Princess Peach" thing all 
 over again, but this time its for wii, which is automatially a 6.0 rating. 
  
  Being blasted throught space without any suit or equiment is interestingly enought to play the 
 rest of the game. Plus as a bonus, if you get ALL the stars in the game you get to play as Mario's 
 brother, Luigi.
  
  Luigi is far faster and jump higher but does not do as much dammage as his brother. Plus the letter 
 you get from peach are not readable but as a bonus you get bribed with extra life mushrooms for 
 your troubles. 
  
  Bowser apears numerous times during the game, and he's obviously apears as the final boss. The 
 octopus from the valcao also apears again, but only twice you get to bash its head in with round 
 objects.
  
  My overall guess of this game is orgasm worthy, no surprise its rated 10/42K. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  I tried, I really tried to find something wrong with SMG. Cus giving 10s to games like this is 
 so cliched, but I can't find ANYTHING not one thing wrong worth taking away from the 10 score. 
 When ever I play SMG I'm filled with pure bliss the same feeling I felt when I played Super Mario 
 64. I don't even know why I tried to find fault with this game there just aren't any. 
  
  Mario 64 was so revolutionary because it was one of the first great 3D adventure game. While 3D 
 adventures are nothing new now but SMG just feels like a continuation of where Mario 64 left off. 
 
  
  Story, who cares? Peach gets abducted, you have to save her, the end. 
  
  The graphics are actually pretty damn good for the Wii. It's by far the best looking Wii game out 
 there. All the worlds are detailed, colorful and have a distinct charm to them.
  
  The gameplay is your standard Mario affair. You have to find stars and jump on people to get to 
 them. Its straight up fun and doesn't get old. Along the way you will find some pretty awesome 
 powerups including FINALLY the fireball in a mario game besides a 2D one.
  
  The controls are spot on and easy to use. They're a mix between motion controls and button controls. 
 With the motion controls, they're responsive and on que, I've had no problems with them what so 
 ever, and when you can say that about a wii game, you know that there was some serious attention 
 paid to the development of this game.
  
  Really anything past this is just filler. Nintendo knows how to make damn good games and SMG is 
 a testament to that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agustbestur
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 6:33 am PT
Review:  Nintendo mascot Mario finally gets back to the business of saving princesses in full 3-D (instead 
 of the 2.5-D of Super Paper Mario) on the Wii. It has been five years since Super Mario Sunshine 
 on GameCube, a game which, while competently executed, didn't exactly win over fans of the classic 
 series. Whatever Nintendo missed in Sunshine gets put right in Galaxy, an innovative platformer 
 that pays homage to the Mario of old while throwing in just enough new tricks that keep things 
 fresh from start to finish.
  
  Just like any other Super Mario game, Mario's arch-nemesis Bowser nabs Princess Peach in a daring 
 daytime abduction, and the do-gooder plumber sets off to save her. This time around, Mario goes 
 where no man has gone before, starting on a deep space observatory, where he meets Princess Rosalina. 
 The Princess, a self-appointed keeper of the stars (any less likely than a plumber who never actually 
 does any plumbing?) , tells Mario that the only way he can rescue Peach is by recovering several 
 Grand Stars. Once they've been captured, the observatory can fly into deep space where Bowser is 
 keeping Peach hostage. The story alternates between charming and nonsensical and at times, and, 
 as always, the dialog is just plain eye-rolling.
  
  The lack of anything more than a cursory plot serves to highlight the game's strength -- imaginative 
 layouts that we'd call level design for the Ritalin generation. Instead of long levels that take 
 hours to complete, the game is broken up into galaxies, which are further divided into smaller 
 galaxies. Each smaller galaxy contains its own terrain, platform and theme (e. g. Space Junk Galaxy, 
 Rolling Green Galaxy, Battle Rock Galaxy) and requires Mario to endure a series of obstacles to 
 collect a star, which ends the level and sends him back to Rosalina's observatory.
  
  Does Mario deserve a perfect score? Tell us in the comments area below.
  
  In the larger galaxies 
 (each comprised of around five galaxies) , one of the planets leads to big boss battles, which get 
 more challenging as the game goes on. Like all Mario games, beating these big boys requires figuring 
 out a boss' attack pattern and then using a combination of the environment and Mario's attacks 
 to defeat them. Some of these battles are just downright difficult and will require a combination 
 of patience, determination and a steady hand to conquer.
  
  These short and sweet galaxies keep the game moving at a rapid clip and, with a few exceptions, 
 there's little level fatigue. Some galaxies require repeat trips to find all of the stars and others 
 just require one go-round to collect the star and head back to the observatory.
  
  9/10 stars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vidgame17
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2007 4:26 am PT
Review:  super mario galaxy is easly the best game in on the wii. it brings back the old school play of 
 mario 64 and gives it a new look along with great levels.
  
  the levels are really well done and are great to come back to because everytime you come back to 
 play them, there is a new star to get and the level is either modified or you end up going in a 
 different direction then you went the previos time through the level.
  
  the bonus levels are great because you have to collect the stars bits to unlock them. its a creative 
 way to unlock things. 
  
  the story is still great even after being around all these years and all in all, having the same 
 plot over and over. its a great way to make up for super mario sunshine.
  
  the gameplay is great, though the overall lack of use with the remote, it is still fun to pick 
 up and get into. the controls are sharp and easy to use, even running around the worlds.
  
  the boss battles are great. they are fun and challenging and at the same time, not too hard.
 
  
  super mario galaxy is a must buy for the wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex13echo
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is a great game for anyone with a Wii to own. The game play is astounding even 
 with the strange (yet manageable) camera angles, the detailed level design, and the physics within 
 the game. Although gameplay is the same basic design as previous 3-D Mario platformers (Choose 
 a level, select a star and attempt to obtain it by completeing the level) , The game is completely 
 inventive. The graphics, I believe, are the best you can find on the Wii to date. The advanced 
 particle effects and 480p make it look beautiful. The control are incredibly responsive, including 
 the waving of the Wii Remote to spin Mario (An extremely useful attack) .
  I also have to mention the games few flaws. For one, I thought the fights against Bowser, the main 
 villain were identical, and that took away the difficulty in boss fights. Also, the overall game 
 wasn't that difficult. I obtained the 60 stars required to get to the final boss level with ease. 
 I believe i had only died once the entire game. 
  Despite these facts, i highly recommend this game to anybody who owns or plans on owning a Wii. 
 You'll have a great time playing it. I know I did!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GalaxyMan93
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  
  Its been early of the gamecube years since we had a true 3D mario side scroller And thats about 
 over 5 years. But now the 5 years are over with and now we have the most recent epic side scroller 
 of the century. Hell maybe of our lifes. 
  
  
  The game starts out with mario getting an invitation from the princess to visit her at the kingdom 
 during a meteor shower type thing. Mario takes a stroll through a bright lit mushroom kingdom with 
 falling stars called luma bits (as i call them we will be learning about them later) . Once mario 
 gets there someone had to come and ruin the fun. And you all know who that is dont you. Let me 
 give you a moment to figure it out lol.... yes your right its big bad bowser and what does he want? 
 The princess of course. So bowser gets the princess but gets a little over the top by taking the 
 whole kingdom off the a far out galaxy AND conquering the galaxies by the powers of the grand stars. 
 Thia makes mario a little pissed so mario runs up to the castle to save peach but kamek had to 
 come and yell at mario sounding like a cat underwater and transport him into an unknown area. It 
 happens to be a different planet with talking stars called lumas. Mario then goes up and talks 
 to the queen of the stars Rosalina and finds out that the galaxies are in need of a hero and the 
 evil one messing things up have your loved one. so the evil on is no other than bowser who captured 
 your loved one peach and the rest of the mushroom kingdoms. Now its up to you to go to every single 
 galaxy in the mario solar system and save the galaxy from extinction.
  
  
  Mario Galaxy is a huge game with a simple premise. save the princess and the universe. Just like 
 in mario 64 you go around different areas trying to get as many stars as possible. Well in this 
 game you get 120 stars plus an extra 120 from luigi. You have to go from galaxy from galaxy getting 
 all the stars from each. The galaxies are located in a various array of observitories. Each Observitories 
 also have one main boss like bowser and bowser junior which you get the grand stars from. The game 
 also has a wide range of power ups including the bumble bee suit which enables you to go to far 
 away distances and climb up on honey combs on the wall. There is also so much stage obsticles to 
 overcome. like pull stars and sling pods that you use to sling past the stars. Theres so much more 
 than this. including luma bits which you use in exchange of feeding hungry lumas to form other 
 galaxies and stun opponents. 
  
  
  This game is beutifully constructed. You wont find better level designs on any other consel game 
 on the market. Some planets you will be passing by will seem new and fimiliar to you. Huge planets 
 like a giant wooden yoshi head infested with goombas and a huge captain olimar like space ship. 
 The graphics are about the same as any other wii games on the market but with the amazing effort 
 they put in level design you will think your playing the 360.
  
  
  The controls are just wow. From what you see in videos you may think wow how akward can you get. 
 But these controls are nowhere near akward. They are the best and most responsive on the wii. YOu 
 walk around with the joystick jump with the A button and shake the wiimote around to attack enimes. 
 Its so simple even with the aiming ability you get to collect the luma bits. Also sudden twitches 
 of the wiimote can activate other obsticles like climbing up vines. 
  
  
  One thing I had a little trouble with was the camera. I got really annoyed at the camera at the 
 water parts they always kept getting off course and kept making me having headaches. But besides 
 that little mishap the games camera will work fine for most. Some may not be able to handle all 
 the sudden dizzy movements happening all at once.
  
  
  Oh wow we made it to the sound. The most amazing game music you will ever hear. The orchrasrated 
 masterpiece will capture your heart. The music is lovable and very memorable and will leave a chill 
 of nostaliga running down your spine. The music is very similar to the music of zelda. The good 
 egg galaxy sounds very similar to that music of the zelda games. The character sounds are fun to 
 like mario's famous WAHOO. You certainly will be humming the soundtrack for a very long time to 
 come.
  
  
  Not in at least 11 years have we got gameplay from a nintendo game like this. Its incredible of 
 all the things you can do. The game is very quick and easy. But you know the saying short and sweet. 
 Well thats what Mario galaxy except its not just sweet its scrumptious. The battling is the same 
 run and jump system with an added twirl movement. This game does have its challenging experiences 
 like the annoying bouldergiest and the freezeflame Galaxies ice and fire level. You will find non 
 stop fun even after getting all 120 stars because luigi will be as enjoyable experience as playing 
 as mario. So yoou will be noticing yourself attached to your TV for quite some time.
  
  
  Yes we are finally at the end of the review with the conclusion. The ever so famous own or dont. 
 Well this game is obviously a OWN. The amazing music. 360 par visuals and impressive gameplay this 
 is one game you should never miss. It will own you for life but you sure will enjoy the short and 
 sweet time you have with it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1313deadmandrve
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  I was in Blockbuster. My dad was getting grumpy and I had to get a game quick. So I looked at this, 
 thought it was good and rented it. I'm glad I did.
  
  Story: It's always a mystery how Bowser always ends up taking Peach, and runing away with Mario 
 close behind. This time he blasted of into deep space and was going to build an empire at the center 
 of the universe. Mario follows him, but passes out and ends up in a obseritory and is told to collect 
 power stars so that he can fly to the center of the universe and save Peach.
  
  Gameplay: Overall somehow, against all science, this game does not get repetitive. In each level 
 you know in your mind that your doing the same thing over and over again, but every level practicly 
 feels like a differnt game. The game runs, feels, and has almost the same controls as the original 
 Super Mario 64. You have a place where you can blast off to different galexys that have about 4 
 stars each. To beat the game you must collect all the stars.
  
  Graphics: The cartoon like looking graphics look great.
  
  Replay value: Wii games are expensive, 
 but it's worth it. I like to play my favorte stars over again. My persinal favorate is one it a 
 toy land as you disarm a giant robot.
  
  Conclusion: Die hard Mario fans should get this game, or platformer lovers, or people own a Wii 
 should own this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: outrageoushadow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  I think this statement has been written for over a hundred times, but I'm going to repeat it once 
 again : this game rocks!
  It has all the things you'ld expect from a mario game (keeping 64 and sunshine in mind) plus it 
 takes you to a ride of your live.
  It already begins in the first (real stage) : the good egg galaxy : it let you experience walking 
 on a small planet where the gravity is everywhere , you won't fall of. There are a lot of those 
 planetmix galaxies in this game.
  Next are the solid galaxies with only one big planet and maybe a small moon or two ( one of em 
 my favorite : the beachbowl galaxy) . In such galaxies it is a bit harder to progress, since you 
 have to scout the planet for clues. And the last kind of galaxies are the one's with a boss. Not 
 much about it , you land on a planet , you follow the trail and you defeat the boss (sounds easier 
 then it is) . Also mario moves great , he doesn't punch anymore but the spin attack compensate's 
 it very well. The only bad thing is tthat it is not required to gather all the stars to get to 
 tne endboss , but if you gather all the stars ( takes a while , take my word for it) you get a 
 big surprise that makes it all worthwhile (in the beginning) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazza28
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  What a fantastic game. Don't let there be any doubt about it. I have played all the Mario games 
 (Mario 64 and Sunshine without a finish) and I think that this game is the best of all. Every level 
 is fun to play, no single one level bored me. Believe me when I say that this game plays tricks 
 on your brain, every time you have to overcome the changing gravity vibes. It was a bit tricky 
 at first, but it is so amazing to experience.
  
  I really can't find any fault in this game. Graphics are colourful and sparkling, sound is very 
 good. Listen to the background music at the observatory once and it will never leave your mind! 
 The different power-ups really add depth to the gameplay (Bee-mario, woot!!!)
  The only letdown is that you can reach the final part too soon (in my opinion) . SPOILER ALERT
 
  After you win the final battle and see the end-credits, you can go back and collect the other, 
 say, 50 stars... Why is that? A little too much mustard after the meal for me I think. That is 
 the only thing that keep this game from becoming perfect. Nevertheless, this is a classic game, 
 one that you really can't miss, not only as a Wii owner, but as a gamer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaorikaori1992
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  The best Mario ever made. Everything was made perfectly into place, one ofthe bet WII Games out. 
 This shows the developers put plenty of effort recreating the fun we had playing Mario back in 
 the days on the Nintendo 64, and recreating the fun in next gen experience. I believe people of 
 all ages will enjoy this remarkably colorful, and fun filled adventure. I was always a fan of Mario 
 games but this game took the franchice to the next level. It's something unique many games wont 
 have, and something family can approve their younger ones playing. I give this game a 9.5, and 
 and excellent review because it really put the WII mote in good use lol Also I believe you parents 
 and elderly ones will enjoy too. Soo I hope you all take my reveiw in concederation and buy it.
 
  
  Reveiw By N. E. R. D. Y STYLEZ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WoolyAbyss
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  ok so this was the game that was supose to be the first good mario game years and well i guess 
 it kind of is its just that this game is repetitive.
  
  STORY.2
  yes it is the exact same story line as before you have to save princess peach from bowser only 
 this time in space.
  also the stars are back like in everygame.
  
  
  replay value.10
  the replay value is brilliant there is so many stars to collect you will need atleast fifty to 
 complete but if youre that much into it you could probably get all 120.
  
  design.9
  the design is good with a lot of different galaxys not one being the same (atleast not that ive 
 got to) bosses are well tought out
  
  multiplayer.1
  the multiplayer is horrible he fact that the second player is just this cursor on the screen. all 
 you get to do is shoot those ruby things like 1player can
  collect those ruby things like 1 player can
  and one of the stupidest elements of this game is 
 the bubble shield where 2player puts a bubble over 1 player making it insanly is as if youre walking 
 through the game with no challenge
  
  graphics.3 ok the way the levels are is good but the fact is it looks like mario sunshine
  gameplay.8
 
  the gamplay is good because there are many galaxys
  
  final thoughts 5.5
  the is good with the level design and replay value but really its just the same mario game as the 
 last except youre in space 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nelfer320
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Everyone out there whos heard of this game might know how I feel. I've waited for this game since 
 it was annouced and now I finally got it! Let me start of by saying that Super Mario Galaxy was 
 more than I expected. Everyone knows good old Mario! If you've played Mario 64 and loved it so 
 much that you've wanted a new Mario game just like it but when Sunshine came out, it wasn't as 
 good as 64, than wait no further. Galaxy is the most amazing game in the series! The gameplay is 
 great, fun, and makes this game addictive. The graphics are like the best on the system. You'll 
 probably won't see anything like it! Although, lets wait for Smash Bros. Brawl to see who will 
 really deserve to be crowned for best graphics on the Wii. Theres really so much to say about this 
 game so let me summ it up. Wii owners, Mario lovers, and platformers fans must get this game asap! 
 Super Mario Galaxy would make a great addition to anyone's Wii collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skullking224
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  mario returns back with the same skill as he did when you last left him but there are new things 
 about this game new stars new people in the game and new creatures this game is great so if you 
 have a wii you need to go get this game and if not just give it a 10.0 nothing is lost for you 
 and BY GOD THIS GAME BEAT CRYSIS thats amazing aint it so go get this game if you have a wii ill 
 wait for you you almost got it huh what did you say there sold out well then try harder that tells 
 that this game could be the best game in the world not rly but yeah you get the point so have a 
 good christ mas every one who knows you could get it for christmas .. ooooo . any ways have a good 
 weekend mario mario mario mario mario mario mario mario mario taking up space and we are done no 
 we are not mario mario mario mairo air air tar fly away no no nnonon onnonoonnononononono yeah 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OllieBrown
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to find faults with Mario's latest adventure. Everything comes together from the best 
 graphical fidelity on the Wii to a delightfully haunting soundtrack to the true perfection of 3D 
 platforming controls. The new Mario suits are brilliant. No doubt they take some getting used to 
 but the sheer creativity index on the suits makes them quite unexpected. Unquestionably the best 
 Wii game to date. Don't get me wrong, I love twilight princess (and I've played Metroid) but none 
 was as much fun as Galaxy.
  
  Where the music is concerned I must admit I'm not that impressed with the remixes. I've heard the 
 mario theme done a million ways already and the songs from all the different versions (2, 3, world, 
 64) make their appearance here. Its the original tracks that really stand out for me not to mention 
 the subtle touches where sound effect feedback and progress through the game changes the music. 
 For instance, the waltz while on the Luma's comet builds becoming more complex as you collect more 
 stars. And the galaxy selection screen which beeps at you as you run over a potential galaxy changes 
 the pitch of the beep to fit the chord of the music playing. The original tracks span a wonderful 
 gap between fully orchestral to well executed ambient electronica (and just about everywhere in 
 between) .
  
  Personally I find the story to be quite touching. It take a real serious turn at the 'Telescope' 
 chapter. Well, serious for Mario. But it sure had me caught off guard. It's important to remember 
 that you don't even have to partake in the story if you don't want. Just stay out of the library.
 
  
  My one complaint is that the 2nd play controls turned out to be quite boring. I half expected that 
 but the extent to which they were useless what not appreciated until I tried them. There just isn't 
 enough for the second player to do when they aren't in control of Mario. But no one expected Mario 
 to be the next great multiplayer game anyways so that's hardly a problem.
  
  Bottom line: a seamless integration of control, graphics, music, sound and mind-bending gameplay 
 that will entertain long after it has earned its keep. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud9210
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is a great game that will keep you entertained for a very long time. This game 
 has great graphics, great music, and a great story that will keep you innovated throughout the 
 whole game. It is a game that people of all ages can like. The controls for this game are great. 
 They are easy to use and easy to catch on to. The galaxies in this game are outstanding. They are 
 very diverse, challenging, and just plain fun to go through. Collecting all 120 stars is a great 
 challenge that when completed reveals an exciting surprise. Having to return to the same galaxy 
 a few times to get new stars becomes some what aggravating at times. Also some of Mario's transformations 
 can become annoying (Bee Mario and Spring Mario.) But even with those few faults this game is a 
 great game that everyone can enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msiak
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  Seldom does one get as much satisfaction to their senses then when playing Super Mario Galaxy for 
 the Nintendo Wii. This game dazzles gamers with visually stimulating graphics, auditory perfection 
 in sound, and superb controls that allow gamers to leave their homes and travel to the bizarre 
 galaxy in which Mario inhabits. This game is simply one of the best games I have ever played. The 
 game starts out simple enough: anyone from virtually any age can learn the controllers and successfully 
 figure out the early puzzles. However, by the later levels, gamers must stretch their gaming muscles 
 to finish galaxies completely. This game has a high replay value as well; because gamers will see 
 themselves trying to go back and get all of the stars to unlock a nice secret feature. If you own 
 a wii, you must buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rowdare
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  My very first glimpse of the opening scene in Mario Galaxy created a wide grin on my face. From 
 that point on I contined to smile as I explored the amazing worlds placed before me. Saving princes 
 peach this time felt different, almost as if I was pulled towards a goal so strongly that I could 
 not stop untill I reached it. 
  
  The basics of the game are fundementally unchanged since the days of old so getting into the game 
 for me was actually quite comfortable. I thought the controls were very tight and had no issues 
 throuout the entire game. The nunchuck and wii remote therefore get two thumbs up from me.
  
  The graphics contained beatiful renditions of planets that range in scope from all types of 
 terrain to very cool sci fi type stages. This game basically sucked me into a wonderful world. 
 My 2 year old son would also be glued to the T. V. just watching me play, because to him it was 
 the best cartoon on the tube. For keeping my sons attention and for giving me peaceful sleeps at 
 night the graphics get two thumbs up.
  
  Level design in Mario Galaxy is by far the most intriging and awsome I have seen in such along 
 time. I would find myself repeating levels over and over again just to show my wife or just because 
 they are fun. Lots of thought has gone into creating amazing worlds to discover and those worlds 
 will take you into bliss.
  
  Now the game on a whole is a very nice package giving you optional two played interactivity and 
 some amazing challenges with the special stars. I espescially like trying to beat a level without 
 getting hit or racing against (sometimes incredibly hard) a time limit. With the addition of some 
 other unlockables the games replayablity is very high. Just like Super Mario 3 I can see myself 
 playing this game for years to come.
  
  I would just like to thank all those who worked so hard on Mario Galaxy to bring us an epic game 
 that my family will enjoy over many years to come. Thank You Nintendo ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zel-duh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  Almost every single gamer has played a mario game. Weither it was a classic nes mario game or a 
 n64 mario game and even a game cube mario. For some gamers , when they think of video gaming some 
 think of shooters , others think of old school games , but after playing this game the only thing 
 thats going to pop up in your head when someone says ''Video Games'' is going to be MARIO GALAXY.
 
  
  Now i know some of you were skeptical because this might have the same effect as super mario sunshine, 
 which wasnt all that great, but dont wory this is a game that is going to blow you away. 
  
  The artistic and graphical style of the game are marvelous, it demonstrates clearly what a 
 wii console can accomplish. Will every game be like this? Probably not. But this is the one game 
 that made the wii worth to buy.
  
  Theres about 10-12 hours of storyline play. The story is like mario 64 and sunshine, your still 
 out to get stars (120) and go through diffrent levels. But this time your in space and instaid 
 of going through paintings , you travel into diffrent galaxys. The concept might ''sound'' a litle 
 cheesy but it really isnt when you have the controller in hands.
  
  The game has great audio and effects that really get you more into the game. The is one knotch 
 less challenging but the game is still great. The level designs are really impressive with new 
 and cool suits.
  
  So for Super Mario Galaxy, i give this game a awsome 9.5
  
  -Zelduh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2007 10:53 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about this game? It is out of this world and Mario has done it again. Like most 
 Mario games it is a lot of fun the graphics and sounds are wonderful and the game play is Great! 
 Like most Mario games you go to different worlds (planets?) and it is just good clean fun for the 
 whole family. This game takes you to places no game has ever gone before and at times it can get 
 a litte hard ( I did go and get the guide for this game which was great as well) but hang in there 
 and you will get it. I think that this game is one of a kind and is a classic in it's own. If you 
 like Mario you will love love love this game. I do not know anyone who has it that does not like 
 it. It has hours of game play. Like I always say if you are unsure about this game you can rent 
 it first but I know you will want to run out and by it after you have tried it once. Game of year? 
 It just might be! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianack96
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy was a great game. The reason I got it in the first place was for its terrific 
 reviews on websites like this one. The game was almost perfect, excerp I didn't think it got you 
 playing right away. But once you finish about 8 stars you are tempted to play 24/7. The graphics 
 in this game are very immpresive for wii, probaly some of the best yet. The controls are very simple 
 and it is perfect for wii. You should deffinitley buy this game or rent it, just enough time to 
 beat it. Theres a game mode that alot of people hate and think is corny, co star, letting you get 
 a wii remote with your friends and do such things as freeze your opponent, make Mario jump, shoot 
 star bits, and that is bassicaly it. The game is a little easy though. This game is deffinietlley 
 worth fifty dollars if you have the money, SO BYE IT!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhys_101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is a fantastic buy that every Wii owner should buy or at least rent. The game you could 
 complete in 15hours max, but will take alot longer to collect all 120 stars. The controls are easy 
 to use and will keep you ammused for hours.
  
  The bos battles are fun and some are creative but are a bit easy but still they are fun. You can 
 also play as Luigi which is a fun bonus to the game if you can be bothered to get all 120 stars, 
 it is a fun and satisfying reward in my opinion but other might think differently.
  
  Pros:
  + Easy Controls that anyone can use and get used to and utilises the wiimote perfectly.
 
  + Will Keep you busy for a long time to get all the stars.
  + Fantastic visual effects for the Wii console.
  + Luigi is a fun bonus.
  
  Cons:
  - Bit 
 short and easy at times
  - How will nintendo top this with another Mario game? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is by far the best Mario platforming game to grace a Nintendo console in quite 
 some time. Nintendo takes a simple concept, gravity, and develops an entire game centered on this 
 theme. Galaxy has all kinds of great features and to sit here and repeat all these features as 
 plenty of other reviews have done will probably not prove all that beneficial or exciting to read. 
 Instead, I am going to point where this, indeed excellent game, could have been made potentially 
 just a little better. 
  
  First, the plot is the most obvious weakness of Mario Galaxy. Simply put there really isn't a plot. 
 Sure, there's the typical kidnapping, attempt to rule the universe stuff, but nothing really intellectually 
 stimulating. The absence of any plot leaves me wandering... was this intentional? One could hypothesize 
 that perhaps Nintendo, wishing to please a wider audience, sought to minimize the plot in a way 
 that would avoid alienating anyone. Too complicated a plot may leave younger players bewildered, 
 and an overly amateur plot may send the older crowd running. Instead it appears they opted for 
 a simple plot that was non-invasive to the actual gameplay. This concept works fairly well, but 
 recall Mario and Luigi: Superstar Saga was quite plot heavy (and an RPG to boot) and successful. 
 Overall I think most would agree that a lack of any plot will remain Super Mario Galaxies primary 
 (if only) weakness. 
  
  The second main problem faced in this game centers around depth perception. This is due, in part, 
 to the camera. The controls are affected by the position of the camera. Restrictions on how the 
 camera can be positioned can lead to some difficult situations. Thankfully, this is not a typcial 
 problem and can usually be adjusted for once you get used to how the game works.
  
  My last thing I want to point out is the omission of several key Mario characters. Characters like 
 Daisy, Wario, WaLuigi, Birdo, Yoshi, and so on have been for the most part left out of this game. 
 Why? Particularly Yoshi. The new characters are great, but it wouldn't hurt to have the old kingdoms 
 included with part of the universe. 
  
  These minor issues aside it's hard to really complain about a game this good. It's fun, and isn't 
 that what it's all about? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xLuigiFan101x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is awesome! It's pretty much like Super Mario 64 and Super Mario Sunshine, except 
 more power-ups, worlds (in this case, galaxies) , enemies/bosses, and more. We got Bowser Jr. back, 
 and a new character: Princess Rosalina. The star missions are funner and harder. Like the Manta 
 Surfing. The classic power-ups return with some new ones.
  The fire flower is finally back, and we got an ice flower. It's cool to see how cool and creative 
 Mario looks in all these power-ups. What really was cool was the graphics. They are amazing. One 
 of the best on the Wii. My main bro, Luigi is in the game! As he missed out on Super Mario 64 and 
 Super Mario Sunshine. He helps you collect stars that you missed (You can't really get the stars 
 you missed by yourself) . All the galaxies design look terrific. The bosses can get too easy like 
 that Lava Octopus/Blooper thing. But still, it's pretty decent. 2 player isn't really much, but 
 it does help new players out who just started the Super Mario adventure series, or just is a new 
 Nintendo/Wii fan. All in all, it's great and I recommend it. Nintendo has gave us what we truly 
 wanted, and another great Nintendo year passes by... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkthemaniac
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 was one of the most prominent memories that I have of childhood. It remains, to 
 this day, my favorite game of all time. It's representation of 3D Mario was excellent, and all 
 the levels were a blast to play over and over. The sheer joy that I, and many others, got from 
 the game was outrageous. Having not had a Gamecube, I was excited to get a Wii and return to the 
 Mario series. I got this game the first day it came out, and I was absolutely blown away.
  
  I usually start by talking about the story, but you all know or should know the drill. Peach 
 is kidnapped by Bowser and is taken off to his lair. The special thing this time is that his lair 
 is in space. Once you get to space, you arrive at the observatory run by Rosalina, who looks oddly 
 familiar...
  
  Once that happens, you get into the rich platformy goodness that is Mario, and it shines now just 
 as good as it did in Mario 3 and Mario 64. The key feature here is the gravity mechanic, and it's 
 incredibly well done. The range of cool feats you can do in this game is expansive, and will keep 
 you hooked. The levels are amazingly well done by any standards. Pretty much every level element 
 you could think of is here, and it's all fun. The controls are perfect, too, but they take some 
 getting used to at first due to the crazy gravity situations that you will encounter.
  
  The suits in this game see a return to the classic Mario Bros. 3 attitude, as we see a return of 
 the Fire suit, as well as some new ones, such as the Bee suit and the Spring suit. Alot of people 
 complain about how the Spring suit is "too unwieldy", but that's the point, and using it takes 
 alot of concentration. The boss fights, while easy for the most part, are still a blast to play. 
 Another element to the game is the comet system, which requires you to do certain things, such 
 as finish a level with only one hit, or go against really fast enemies, and they provide new challenge 
 to the game.
  
  The graphics aren't HD, but they're still excellent, but soon after turning this game on, you start 
 to not care about the graphics. You start to zone in on what matters in gaming most. This game 
 was great fun for me, but it also revealed something somewhat sad about me. I don't think I had 
 smiled or laughed while playing a game since Mario 64. I then realized the greatness of video games 
 like this. They're not just combinations of data formed into environments. These kinds of games 
 have a strange essence about them, almost like a soul. They suck you in and give you a joy that's 
 greater than the one given by curb-stomping someone in Gears of War, or beating Galamoth in Symphony 
 of the Night. They remind you of what it was like to be a kid, how it felt to play with your friends, 
 or how you felt on Christmas morning. I may be getting somewhat sentimental here, but I'm serious. 
 This game is absolutely terrific, and has made me realize how fun games can be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uber_Antwerp
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy; oh, the wait was almost impossible to endure, but you're finally here! And 
 what a site you are!
  
  Yes, Super Mario Galaxy is an absolutely fantastic game. It's really a must-have for any Nintendo 
 fan. Almost every bit of the game seems to have been absolutely perfected by Nintendo.
  
  The first thought that came to my mind when I fired up Galaxy was, "Hot damn, look at those graphics!" 
 Really, this is probably the best game graphically available for the Wii. It seems that Nintendo 
 knows how to get the best out of their little console that could.
  
  The game play is just like every other Mario game you've ever played, but not in a bad way. Control 
 is good, and the Wiimote's unique features are implemented nicely.
  
  The only true complaint I have with Galaxy is that there's simply not enough of it. The main story 
 can be beaten in under 10 hours by most. However, it will probably take more than twice or three 
 times that long for a veteran to complete the game 100%.
  
  So, pick up a copy of Galaxy (if you can find one) , and I guarantee you'll be in for an intense, 
 if not somewhat short, ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: immortality20
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  It is the man who saved an industry, a man who recreates the industry, a man who demands attention. 
 Mario is an icon, and a man of few words. Mario is also the first man in space without a suit, 
 how cool is that? All that jumping must make the overalls give a wedgie though. Enough, enough, 
 you remember how the industry stopped for Mario 64 right? Well, it's not that dramatic, but it 
 is as good, which may be more important.
  
  The story is the same, Bowser kidnaps Princess, Princess promises non-sexual relationship if Mario 
 saves her, agaaaain. But we don't need a story, Mario is the one game who can cruise by on pure 
 gameplay. And this gameplay is fantastic. While the Wii is weighed down with pointless ports, not-so-great-anymore 
 party games and wannabe FPS games, Nintendo continues to be the only one to show developers how 
 its done. 
  
  The controls are smooth, you don't have to worry about a bunch of dumb Wii-mote action, it feels 
 natural, like Mario 64 did with the analog. You can shake the Wii-mote to spin Mario, point it 
 to gather star-bits and other neat things. Mario is always known for its tight controls, and this 
 is no exception.
  
  Controls are nothing without a good level design though, right? Well no worries here. Mario offers 
 many planets, each planet has several stars to collect and the level design changes pending on 
 the mission. Running upside down objects feels natural, and you will find yourself exploring areas 
 you wouldn't dare in any other game. The levels are so cleverly designed that you just smile the 
 whole time. It is a beautiful game.
  
  While other Wii games lacked that graphic jazz, Super Mario Galaxy creates beautiful levels, characters 
 and backgrounds. From brave new worlds, to old school themes, you will never be left bored. There 
 is no gamer alive who won't hum along to the famous music scores in the game, either. 
  
  While Super Mario Sunshine failed to build on the platforming genre, Super Mario Galaxy almost 
 reinvents it. Again. Pure genius level design will have you smiling and wanting to go back for 
 more. And more. And more. 120 stars never seemed so important. Mario's oft ignored brother makes 
 appearences too, though this game sadly lacks Yoshi. 
  
  The Wii not only has game of the year, it has the game of this generation. Platformers are a fast 
 dying breed, but Mario is a beacon in the night, waiting for others to follow and his light. Again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrupted19
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  As Borat would say, wow wow wee wow. This game puts the game in video game. Any true vide gamer 
 at one point has played Mario 64, and anyone who has played Mario Sunshine knows that was a complete 
 dissapointment to the Mario series. However Super Mario Galaxy is hardly the dissapointment. Every 
 level, every second, every terrain, every star, every boss there is always something new. Everything 
 you would want in a Mario game and more. I don't think that there is a comparison in my opinion 
 from galaxy to Mario 64. The choice is clear, the winner is Super Mario Galaxy. I will tell you 
 why. Level design, fun, graphics, creativity, bosses, bowser, bowser Jr., battles, characters, 
 playing as luigi, fighting with luigi, and last but not least, the wiis interpretive controls! 
 It really puts the icing on the cake and the game is ten times more graphically enhanced than sunshine, 
 and ten times better. 5 stars, perfect ten, two thumbs up, and flawless! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kid_buu222
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  mario galaxy is the best mario game ive ever played with its stunning graphics and amazing level 
 design makes the game worth playing and with the sound it just begs you to keep playing. though 
 the game is relativly easy and bose battles are easier, the game is just plain fun.
  
  and plus after finding all the stars you can play wit luigi which is just as fun to play again.
 
  
  The thing that made me sad is when i finished the game and their was'nt going to be anymore new 
 boss battles with bowser and bowser JR.
  
  but in all words the best game for the wii and the most fun and totally the best mario game for 
 times to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Junior_AIN
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  This is the type of game I was willing to play, this game has "fun" written all over, what you 
 get playing it is nothing more than extreme fun, this is more linear than any other 3D mario game, 
 that can be viewed as a good or a bad thing, I firstly thought it was bad, but after playing it 
 over and over again I realized it one of the aspects that makes the game so fun, you won't find 
 yourself losing your mind trying to beat some puzzle or trying to figure out what to do in a world, 
 the paths are mostly pre-determined, you just have to go on and play it.
  
  If you think about it, the game is kind of a 2D platformer masqueraded as a 3D, you have the fun 
 you used to have while playing a 2d platformer, no need stress about puzzles and long wanderings 
 while not sure of what to do next, just play on beating the challenges that will require more skill 
 than thinking, like beating enemies, platform jumping and such.
  
  The sound is on of the most amazing I have ever witnessed in a vide game, since Metroid prime I 
 have never heard such awesomeness, and now finally, all songs orchestrated, that's right, Nintendo 
 finally hired a live orchestra to play their songs, and it turned out to be perfect.
  
  The controls are tight, and so they should be, the moves that requires the movement sensing responds 
 greatly, the only bad thing is that some moves are missing, like the "jump and dive into the air" 
 move, but the ones you are able to perform will make you forget about it in no time.
  
  The graphics are great too, no high definition, but seeing all the great effects and well made 
 sceneries is good enough, it's probably the best looking Wii game yet. The multiplayer is very 
 weak, but then again, it's just a side thing, if you have a friend willing to just stay seconded 
 in the adventure and helping with minimal things like gathering star bits and helping on performing 
 jumps, you might have fun!
  
  The concept of the game is what makes it totally awesome and innovative, you get to play with gravity 
 here, sometimes while walking on a planet you will be completly upside down! It may be uncomfortable 
 at first, and might make you feel dizzy, but you get used to it!
  
  It's a great game, with excellent soundtrack, tight controls, and has the name Mario on it, so 
 this is just the game every Wii owner was waiting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gandalf5000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is the best mario, wii, platform, action/adventure game to date. A must buy 
 for any wii owner. Not only is the game play awesome but the level design and graphics are simply 
 some of the best on Wii. I know all of this has already been said but it cant be stressed enough. 
 This game is the definition of 3. D, i also love how some of the levels the way the old 2-d mario 
 games use to be going from left to right but still in full 3-D and still kicking major arse. Altho 
 i rented the game and got the first 60 stars i still plan on buying the game as soon as i have 
 enough $$chedda$$ to do so. Once again, awesome game for anyone that has any sort of interest in 
 video games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firehawk110
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Super mario galaxy is a masterpiece. You'll never want to put down the controller when you start 
 playing. It feels like you're playing super mario 64 all over again with a fresh new feeling. It 
 also has plenty of classic nostalgic elements as well to add to the experience. This game is very 
 long, so you'll be able to play it for a very long time, possibly want to start playing it all 
 over again once you've finished. The levels are designed flawlessly and made incredibly fun. It's 
 just so addictive, inhtuitive, and full of variety. Its as good as super mario 64, if not a little 
 better. It's the best game of the year, along with halo 3. If you've ever enjoyed a mario game, 
 or any platform game then you must get this. It will be a dream come true for you. If you were 
 dissapointed with super mario sunshine, then this is definetley the game to get. This game will 
 remain a true classic for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bruuin
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  Who would have figured that a little old Italian plumber would have such longevity as a video game 
 icon? Super Mario makes his triumphant return to form in a game that's just oozing with charm. 
 Graphically, Mario has never looked so good. Despite being displayed in a maximum of 480p the entire 
 world looks incredible. As you would expect thought, it's the gameplay that carries this one.
 
  
  Galaxy manages to keep the gameplay feeling like a traditional Mario game without overusing the 
 motion sensing technology. You'll definitely be using it constantly, but the addition feels natural 
 rather than forced. Pointing the remote at the screen will allow you to pick up star bits from 
 a distance while swiping it will cause Mario to engage in a spin maneuver. You'll be doing it all 
 the time, but the control is completely responsive once you have the timing figured out. It opens 
 up completely new avenue's for platforming and puzzle solving. In addition to that, there are some 
 really neat quirks with the gravity that will challenge you in some pretty unique ways. The gameplay 
 always challenges you, but it maintains a feeling of simplicity to it all.
  
  Normally I'm a fan of games that have some sort of story driving them forward. Galaxy doesn't have 
 too much going on in that regard. The typical save the princess theme exists here and there isn't 
 much more to it than that. The back-story of the Luma's is bundled in as well, but you could play 
 the whole game without ever knowing about it and it would hardly make a difference.
  
  Perhaps the part about the game that I enjoy the most however, is it's accessibility. Here is a 
 game with plenty to offer both kids and adults. It took me quite a while to plow through Galaxy, 
 but the way in which each of the galaxies are broken up into small levels meant that I could tackle 
 it a bit at a time. It's the kind of game that you can pick up, play for 15 minutes, walk away 
 from it and then come back to later without feeling like you're missing out on anything. A perfect 
 trait in a game for adults with busy work schedules or kids that want to sneak in some game-time 
 between math and history. Of course who would really object if you want to skip out on the math 
 homework for tonight and just play for hours on end either?
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is a benchmark for the Nintendo Wii and a must one for anyone looking for an 
 example of what Wii games can and should be like. All of that notwithstanding, it's a whole lot 
 of fun to play, and that in itself should be enough!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: neomana
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  Many people say that technically the Wii is not a next gen console, and argue they want the most 
 advanced system of what is quite possibly one of the most fantastic era's of gaming. I say play 
 Super Mario Galaxy.
  
  This game is quite simply stunning. Not only for the enjoyable use of actual movement needed to 
 play in parts, which keep this game feeling the Wii vibe. But for the gameplay which devours you 
 into the word of Mario. The story line doesn't hold up to much stick but you will barely have time 
 to notice as you eagerly await the next level. Controls are simple and easy to pick up in minutes, 
 which keeps this game feeling family friendly... 
  
  However I detect I subtle and slightly sneaky move here, Nintendo are aware that serious gamers 
 dont take this system seriously. And serious gamers are in no doubt the people who decide whether 
 a game will move from just being good into the lucrative possibility of being a classic. Here's 
 what they (in my opinion) have cleverly done...
  
  The one hole people have found with this game is the multiplayer, with possiblities of being so 
 great the 2nd player is resigned to mearly clicking on the coins to aid the primary player in his 
 quest... as enjoyable as peeling potatoes for the unfortunate victim of the 2nd remote. But thats 
 whats clever, everyone knows Nintendo can make an amazing Multiplayer games, they have simply choosen 
 to almost ignore multiplayer and thus the family appeal of the game. Bringing it closer to a real 
 Gamers game, for the people who at first turned there noses up and called the Wii a gimic... or 
 in one bold statement "two game cubes selotaped together with gaffer tape".
  
  Only question left to ask is, "Has it worked?".
  
  Well with Wii sales thro the roof for another 
 nintendo stock shortage xmas, it appears they have done there job well. And to all those of you 
 out there reading this thinking the Wii is rubbish i will say to you what i say to others "Play 
 Super Mario Galaxy". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MallratsJaySB
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 1:15 am PT
Review:  Who would have thought that video games' most popular and most recognized character would be an 
 overweight plumber? That odd, tubby little concoction of overalls and red cap has captured the 
 hearts of gamers across the planet and remains the most consistently engaging platforming hero 
 ever. Mario has never ceased to amaze the video game world dating all the way back to the original 
 Super Mario Bros. and now with the outstandingly remarkable Super Mario Galaxy. If you've been 
 holding back on buying a Wii because of the questionable motion sensing gimmick and/or lack of 
 games, now is the time to invest.
  
  This time, things are a bit different in Mario's universe. Mario meets a beautiful woman named 
 Rosa who instantly steals his heart. They rollick in the flowers, snuggle endearingly, and unknowingly 
 eat the same strand of spaghetti until their lips embrace with passion. However, her father happens 
 to be the king of a far away land at war with the Mushroom Kingdom, so he whisks Rosa away, locks 
 her up, and sets up defensive parameters to keep Mario away. Mario sets off to rescue his love 
 and make some babies....... nah, I'm just kidding. Peach is kidnapped by Bowser. The day Mario platformers 
 change their story is the day the world ends. This time, Bowser drags her off to the center of 
 the universe where he plans on creating his own galaxy. Of course, Mario says, "Oh no he didn't!" 
 and sets out to stop him and rescue Peach.
  
  The Mario games have revolutionized the platformer genre time and time again and Galaxy is no different. 
 For gamers who have finished Mario 64 and Sunshine, the gameplay will feel instantly familiar. 
 The big nosed plumber still has his normal tricks up his sleeve. He can butt stomp, long jump, 
 back flip, and triple jump. Adding to his arsenal (if you can call it that) is a spin move that 
 will be your primary attack. By simply shaking either the nunchuk or Wii remote, you'll be able 
 to stun your enemies before running into them and finishing them off.
  
  Mario also has some extra suits to help him on his quest. He will regain the fire power while also 
 grabbing new suits, like the Bee suit which lets him hover for a limited time and latch onto certain 
 objects and the Ice suit which lets him walk on water by freezing it as soon as he touches it. 
 Every suit in the game is used to solve puzzles that will eventually get you to a star. The majority 
 of them are quite fun, but one in particular annoys like none other. There is a Spring suit which 
 encompasses Mario with a metal spring and allows him to jump to great heights, but he must bounce 
 the whole time. Bouncing is somewhat hard to control and when you need to jump to a high area, 
 it can be hard to judge what angle you need to go at. It's easy to get used to, but there are only 
 a few stars that employ this suit so you never really settle in to the mechanic.
  
  All of that is great, but what is so revolutionary about the game? The real achievement comes from 
 the space setting. In each level, there are dozens of planets that each have their own gravitational 
 pull. This allows for some very unique and interesting gameplay situations. You'll be able to run 
 a 360 in any angle around most of these planets and there is usually plenty of stuff to find. A 
 lot of the puzzles require you to scour some planets and pick up various objects or defeat an enemy. 
 It may not sound like much, but the uniqueness is hard to argue with and it adds an intriguing 
 dynamic to what could otherwise be very mundane. However, it is easy to get a headache during your 
 early hours with the game. It can get quite nauseating seeing all of these quick camera movements 
 and nifty gravitational changes. After you play for a while, it's not too bad. But it could become 
 a problem for some people.
  
  Of course, there are some traditional levels sprinkled around the game as well, much like Mario 
 64 or Sunshine. There aren't any gravitational changes or unique puzzles in these. It just presents 
 us with the same levels that we all know and love and they are just as fun as the rest of the game. 
 Unless you're talking about the water levels. The swimming levels have almost always been the least 
 interesting part of Mario games and it's no different here. Mario doesn't control very well while 
 swimming and the star objectives never reach any kind of inventiveness. Instead, they are there 
 to switch things up a bit. But after seeing the excellent level designs of the other levels, it's 
 hard not to think that these feel a bit unnecessary.
  
  Just like the previous two games, there are 120 stars to collect. You can beat the game with a 
 mere 60, but with the endless amount of variety in the level designs, don't be surprised if you 
 push yourself to gather every single one. Unfortunately, as you near 3/4 completion of the game, 
 you'll start to feel like they just ran out of ideas for stars. To add more stars so they could 
 get to the coveted number 120, they employed a "comet" system. After you gain some stars in a level, 
 comets will start to approach and if you venture into the level again, you will have to do a certain 
 task to get a new star. There are five of these comets: speedy, daredevil, cosmic, fast foe, and 
 purple comets. Some of these are nothing more than a race against a ghost version of yourself or 
 a 100 purple coin challenge. Others are simply repeating the same star you've gotten before by 
 timing you or making the enemies move faster. The problem is that this is never a challenge. The 
 game is usually very easy and the time limit they allow you is more than enough time to grab the 
 star and the enemies have never been that hard to defeat, so why would making them faster be any 
 different? It's really just an excuse to lengthen the game.
  
  The graphics are truly excellent. Everybody knows that the Wii is the weakest of the three next-gen 
 systems in terms of graphical capability, so capturing the true-to-life feel of a gritty war shooter 
 or horror game that relies on unsettling imagery and a creepy ambiance is difficult to do. But 
 a game like this needs to be colorful, magical, and cartoonish. Luckily, Galaxy has all of this 
 in spades. The visuals just have such an endearing charm to them. It is sure to entertain younger 
 audiences, but also create a sense of awe in older folks as well. There is even a sense of calmness 
 in the hub world where friendly creatures called Lumas float about and play. The game looks astounding.
 
  
  The audio is another area of the game that I have absolutely no complaints about. The best part 
 is the musical score. It captures the feel of every action on screen precisely the way it should. 
 Sometimes it blends music from the previous Mario games with a newer modern feel and it brings 
 about a great sense of nostalgia. And other times, it completely changes how you feel. It can make 
 you feel tense, calm, excited, and peaceful at times. In the library of the hub world, you can 
 read a sweet story and the music accompanying it almost gives you goosebumps for how beautiful 
 it is. It is very low key, calm, and simple, but it's simplicity at its finest. It's so good in 
 fact that it should be burned to a CD and played as an aid to help a baby sleep. The other areas 
 of the sound are spot on as well.
  
  As big of a Mario fan I am, I looked at videos and screenshots for this game and wasn't impressed. 
 It just didn't look compelling. It looked too confusing, contrived, gimmicky, and different to 
 be a true Mario game. Well, I am delighted to say that I was 100% incorrect. Almost every single 
 thing implemented in here works perfectly with only a few minor quibbles here and there. The level 
 designs are geniusly manufactured, the controls are instantly intuitive, the musical score is outstanding, 
 and the gameplay is truly different. Super Mario Galaxy is one of the greatest Mario games yet 
 and easily one of the best games of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rawgik
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  I have blasted through all the galaxies, collected all stars, and at the end of this wonderful 
 journey, I was begging for more.
  The graphics on Mario Galaxy is truely amazing. Nintendo have done a wonderful job of choosing 
 specific tone that best suits this particular title and also shows promise to technical possibilities 
 of their new console. 
  Sound is also great, except some terrible voice-works.
  Gameplay contains all the classic Mario64-elements that we all adore, plus some new innovative 
 addition.
  Controls, however, is a totally different story.
  As you venture through the galaxies, on numerous occasions you will find yourself running upside-down. 
 This is really a cool new addition to the gameplay, but the transition sequence between walking 
 on a normal angle to a crazy twisted grounds is just terrible. 
  If you play critically acclaimed action games, (ex. Devil May Cry) if camera angle suddenly changes 
 as you walk straight, (pushing analogue stick forward) you will still be walking in the same direction. 
 (still pushing the stick forawrd)
  In Mario Galaxy, this isn't the case. Almost everytime you come across an upside-down bridge over 
 a hot boiling lava, camera angle shifts. Then, in order to coordinate, you have to quickly adapt 
 to the new camera angle and shift your analogue stick accordingly if you don't want to fall into 
 the obstacles.
  This can be such a frustrating task when you are standing on a devices such as moving panels, and 
 camera suddenly changes, then you have to avoid everything in your path in order to not fall off 
 the moving panel while adapting to the new control for the new camera angle.
  Lastly, camera shifts too often to unnecessary angles, and often times you cannot manually coordinate 
 the camera to your desired viewing.
  And even if you manage to manually change the camera, it will very soon automatically shift back 
 to the previous angle.
  
  Aside from a few frustrating issues, Mario Galaxy is truly a master piece,
  If you own Wii, you 
 must get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unknown2114
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Galaxy follows the classic Mario setup, Princess Peach kidnapped by Bowser, Mario must collect 
 things (Stars) , and Mario fights Bowser. Years of Mario games and this formula still works. Galaxy 
 is a great nod to Mario 64, as there are numerous references to things found in 64, such as enemies 
 and music. The Wii controls are nice additions, Mario has a spin move to knock out enemies. You 
 can also piont the remote at the screen to collect star bits which serve as collectable currency, 
 second to coins. The graphics are sharp, probably the sharpest i have seen on Wii. The sound is 
 now produced by an orchestra and its helps make each level's background music sound amazing. The 
 difficulty is my only problem, its bit on the easy side but does provide a challenge in the final 
 levels. Bottom Line: Mario Galaxy is a great Mario game and a good nod to Mario 64. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan8494
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  With a spectacular game like Super Mario Galaxy, Nintendo doesn't disappoint. Super Mario fans 
 will not complain to the stunning gameplay and world beyond this game. This game does have the 
 same plot as all Mario games, the princess getting captured, but this game has a unique twist to 
 it. The reason that it is so unique is Mario ventures to other galaxies in space and time in order 
 to save Princess Peach. The great puzzles and enemies on different planets and galaxies will leave 
 you begging for more. Another great thing about this game is the fantastic bosses. Of course there 
 is Nintendo's favorite baddie Bowser, but there is still lots more foes to overcome. From lava 
 monsters to giant Piranha Plants, this game will leave you in awe. The stellar graphics and clever 
 gameplay also leave you satisfied that you spent $50 on this game for the Nintendo Wii. The hype 
 for this game has been around since Wiis release, and the game is all its cracked up to be. If 
 you have a Nintendo Wii, this game is a must have Without a doubt, Super Mario Galaxy claims the 
 title for best Nintendo Wii game on the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caossbr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Super mario Galaxy has good graphics and controls. Only the bosses are kind of repetitive. It starts 
 with Mario in Mushroom Kingdom festival, when princess peach is kidnapped with the castle. Mario 
 go to many galaxies to restore the station comet power. An great adventure game, with so much galaxies 
 and much stars. The soundtrack is great, with some old-themes remixed, and new themes. In this game 
 Mario has 3 costumes and 4 power-ups. You reach the galaxies in some domes located in the comet. There 
 are some special galaxies that you must feed the star with X number of star bits, and some you must 
 get special stars to reach the galaxies in the edge of the universe. This game can be played in 
 2 players too, one controlling Mario and the player 2 uses the wii-mote to shoot and stun. (the player 
 1 can shoot star bits too) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quadraxis1809
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  WOW!!!!!!!!!! i guess this is what i get for not hyping a game up, a great game of legendary proportions 
 despite the fallout of sunshine and the thought of there not bieng a greater follow up to 64 made 
 me think is this game gonna just flop or just be another mario game? HELL NO! galaxy punched me 
 in the mouth and made me beg for more. galaxy is soooo good i forgot there was a mario 64 ever 
 made with so many levels and level designs to go with it. mario is in his most unique adventure 
 yet dwelling in space but its still the same marioness stuff weve been waiting for a good while 
 for. the graphics are prettier than the girl of your dreams and the whole colorful atmosphere makes 
 galaxy feel right at home as well as the music to fit right in. and now i wanna thank all the folks 
 at nintendo for making such a great game and great system to play the game on. THANK YOU NINTENDO 
 FOR ANOTHER GREAT GAME!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadygeneral
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 6:27 am PT
Review:  Well its a great game, very poished &amp; amazing graphics. Its just, I dont know, nothing special 
 IMO. Now dont start flaming me, it just didnt do a whole lot for me. Ive been really enjoying it, 
 some of the levels are really imaginative but it all seems a bit underwhelming. Everyone had been 
 saying its the 2nd coming of videogames &amp; I just had a feeling of Deja Vu for most of it. At 
 no moment did I think or even come close to saying 'wow'. But it is a highly polished game that 
 is easy to put on a loose a few hours in. Also it is unbelieveably easy - normaly something I wouldnt 
 like but its this that kept me playing for so long. If it was harder &amp; become frustrating at 
 any point I may have just not bothered with it. Its not good enough for me to keep redoing a challenge. 
 So luckily it let me get this far with only a couple of deaths &amp; thankfully the camera is mostly 
 excellent - only failing me on a couple of moments. There are no '8 red coin' stars (thank f**k) . 
 But it still has the repeat levels structure to give it longevity. It even repeats 1 level in a 
 kind of mirror mode. This is somethign I would have slated this game for. Its lazy programming 
 IMO, why create lots of levels when they can just make you replay the same ones over. But luckily 
 the levels do change just enough on each galaxy to make you want to replay them. The first bosses 
 were great too, the very first being a toned down version of the screen filling beasts from SOTC 
 you have to climb which i thought was excellent - only for the later bosses to be the same small 
 moles I beat in other Mario games in little mechanical machines. A masssive let down &amp; a missed 
 opportunity. That last paragraph basicaly sums up the game. Starts off very original &amp; promissing 
 then it settles down &amp; becomes the same old calssic Mario game. Which is no bad thing, in fact 
 its an excellent thing. Exactly what I wanted TBH. However its not as great as Mario 64 (this may 
 be due to that being the very first 3d mario game rather than being better) or Mario 3 or World. 
 But still a top class game. &amp; its is by no means the best game ever that some have been trying 
 to make me believe. Its a top notch platformer, but nothing more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vashkey
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2007 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is to the Mario series to a certain degree what The Legend of Zelda Twilight 
 Princess is said to be to the Zelda series. The difference here is that it really is. A return 
 to the series classic roots and an all around better game than the last entry.
  
  Have you ever played my friend, Super Mario 64 or it's DS special edition? Perhaps Super Mario 
 Sunshine? Then you should feel right at home with Super Mario Galaxy because for the most part 
 the controls remain the same. Anyone with a brain could probably pick up Super Mario Galaxy and 
 make their way through the game with no problem. And for the most part Super Mario Galaxy plays 
 out much like past 3d mario game iterations. You go from a main hub and from there select levels 
 to play though. And once you collect the shiny star in level your done. And you'll typically go 
 back for a couple more. There are side levels and secret stars as well. The levels are a bit more 
 interesting, as they usualy have you play around with gravity and your flying around in space. 
 The puzzles are more thoughtful and clever this time around, but that probably is mostly due to 
 alot of the worlds being puzzles entirely, giving Galaxy a more puzzle oriented feel than the other 
 Mario games. Control wise, like I said earlier, Galaxy controls almost exactly like 64. Only real 
 difference being that now when you shake the Wii remote Mario will do a spin move. It can be use 
 to hit/stun enemies, further your jumps and hit switches. You'll be using the Wii remote's pointing 
 abilities with a star cursor that can pick up small shiny star called star bits. Star bits are 
 used as currency/food for the small star creatures called lumas to eat and in return make new worlds 
 or give you power ups (in other words your feeding stars smaller star, so I guess their cannibals) . Ocassionally 
 Galaxy will throw in motion controlled mini games (like almost every other Wii game has to) . Other 
 than this, your not going to see much else of the Wii's unique hardware features, which is sorta 
 a shame. In the end, Galaxy plays well, it's fun, but not really the revolution some people might 
 have been looking for. I'd also like to add that, about twenty or so stars in I kinda got bored 
 of the game and only picked i up every now an then before finally beating it. Now Im not saying 
 the game is bad, it's just that it really isn't near as addictive as last games. Probably because 
 your going to feel a bit like you've played this game before. And lastly, I really wish Nintendo 
 could move past the archaic, collect shiny objects quest. And why do we even have a life count. 
 This may sound like alot of complaining but I figure everyone has said enough positive things to 
 get the point across. And as I said earlier, this is still a highly refined platformer.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is clearly the best looking Wii game on the market. It puts every Wii game to 
 shame effortlessly. The game is just beautiful. It almost looks like it should be on the 360 or 
 PS3. It's, bright colorful, cute... I mean, it's just what Mario is suppose to look like.
  
  The music in this game is beautifully orchestrated, another example of how Super Mario Galaxy 
 is what LoZ TP was suppose to be. I'll be honest, had the music been of Super Mario Shunshine quality, 
 I would have probably given Galaxy an 8.5. The music is that great. I will go on to say that with 
 out a doubt, this is the single best aspect of Super Mario Galaxy. Theres just nothing like it. 
 Best original soundtrack of the year.
  
  Galaxy, can be beaten' in about six to eight hours if your not going for every star. Now if your 
 looking to unlock everthying, well your just going to have alot more time in this game. Other than 
 that, you have co-op you can do. Unfortunatly it's not real co-op, it's just one other player with 
 another star cursor. They can shoot and collect stars and impede some enemy attacks. Thats all 
 there is to it. A real co-op would have been much better. I see no reason why we could not have 
 had real co-op....
  Well, anyway, despite a few short comings and the fact the game is not at all any sort of revolution, 
 Super Mario Galaxy is a solid Mario adventure, the best one to date IMO. If you have a Wii get 
 it. It's about one of the very few games on the platform worth getting and one of the fewer games 
 on the platform represent what the Wii is suppose to be about. Somthing accessible, easy to pick 
 up and play, and enjoyable to most anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naruto2002
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is one of the best Wii games I have ever played. Super Mario Galaxy is about 
 princess peach getting kidnapped again by bowser and once again you will have to save princess 
 peach. Now that I have finished talking about the storyline I am going to talk about the graphics. The 
 graphics in the game are amazing for a Wii game. It really shows how much potential the Wii has. The 
 water in the game looks like real water. The environments in the game are a work of art. Now I am 
 going to move on to the gameplay. The gameplay never really gets old. You can play the missions you 
 have already beaten over and over again like in Super Mario 64. But the one thing that I like the 
 most about the game is that there are so many galaxies to explore and mess around with. The music 
 in the game is incredible. The music is so incredible that one of the songs in the game will get 
 stuck into your head. There is alot of replay value that will keep you busy for a coule of months 
 since there are 120 stars to collect. I also liked mario special suits especially the fire mario 
 suit. And the controls do not take long to get used to. Overall Super Mario Galaxy is a must have 
 Wii game. I recommend any huge mario fan to get this game now as soon as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8smokes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  The mario games have been on a little delay for the past years. But the sequal to Super Mario Sunshine 
 has really got all kinds of gamers blasting into space. The unique level designs, the phenomenal 
 music, and the outstanding graphics make this game the best on the wii, and one of the best games 
 this year. Though this game is wacky, and holds up to the mario reputation, it does have its draw 
 backs. The game has a lot of story, and few voice overs, which means spending time reading A LOT 
 of text. Trust me, it does get annoying after awhile. Also, even though the level designs are CRAZY 
 fun, the game requires you to keep going back to galaxies in search of different thigs, which tend 
 to make you say, Oh mann. I have to go back to that galaxy AGAIN? . Some levels do get old, but 
 not all of them. In conclusion, this game is one of the best games you'll find this year, and is 
 a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spongemario
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 set the base standard for 3-D exploration, Super Mario Sunshine went the offbeat 
 course by combining amazing water effects and an unorthodox gameplay feature, and Super Mario Galaxy 
 fine-tunes everything imaginable to create one of the most memorable experiences in gaming history.
 
  Over the years, the platforming genre has experimented with a wide variety of tricks and goodies. 
 At this point, you think you've seen it all. Think again.
  
  Every hundred years, a huge comet flies by the skies above the Mushroom Kingdom. One year, that 
 comet filled the entire sky, and from it fell a stream of shooting stars. The Toads scooped up 
 the Star Bits and brought them to the castle, where they were reborn as a great Power Star. It 
 was a happy time in the Mushroom Kingdom. Then one night Mario received a letter
  'Dear Mario,
  I'll be waiting for you at the castle on the night of the Star Festival. There's 
 something I'd like to give you.
  From, Peach.'
  With invitation in hand, Mario headed off to the castle just as the Star Festival was getting into 
 full swing. Surrounded by Toads gleefully trying to catch falling Star Bits, Mario was looking 
 forward to the night's festivities. But then, something happened
  An armada of Airships appears, and opens fire on the Festival! This vile act is done by none other 
 than the evil king Bowser. Mario tries to make it to the castle, just as Bowser rips the entire 
 fortress into the sky! As the Airship fleet and the captured castle rocket into space, Mario tries 
 desperately to reach the Princess. One blast is all that was needed to knock Mario into the far 
 reaches of spacethe fate of Princess Peach and Bowser's plans were unknown
  Mario wakes up on a small planet, and is greeted by a living star called a Luma. Lumas are essentially 
 the beings that become comets, stars, planets, just about everything in the universe, and even 
 Power Stars. The Lumas introduce Mario to Princess Rosalina, mother of the Lumas and commander 
 of the Comet Observatory. She explains that her Observatory is fueled by Power Stars, but Bowser 
 and his minions have captured them. She asks Mario to find these lost Power Stars, so the Observatory 
 can gain enough power to observe galaxies further and further away. And it seems like Bowser is 
 cooking up trouble in the center of the universe
  
  The tried-and-true gameplay formulas of the 3-D Mario adventures are finally crafted well enough 
 to satisfy gamers' wishes thanks to Super Mario Galaxy. After all, what's a good platformer without 
 a few things to collect?
  Once again, it's up to Mario to collect the 120 Power Stars to restore peace and freedom, this 
 time to the universe. You get them by traversing the many different galaxies, performing tasks 
 such as getting from point A to point B, defeating bosses, winning a race, taking secret detours, 
 and other ways. But those aren't all; sometimes Prankster Comets appear in orbit around a galaxy. 
 Such comets have you repeat a previous mission, but with a twist. In some comets, you only have 
 one hitpoint; you could have a time limit; all enemies are much faster; and others. These comet 
 missions certainly do add a level of challenge, but at the same time, they're not difficult enough 
 to make you want to give up. Such a balance is hard to find in games, but luckily Super Mario Galaxy 
 does it right. And yet, there is still more variety to cover! After you rescue him, Luigi provides 
 a few freebie Stars every so often. Also, once you fine the three secret Green Stars, the Trial 
 Galaxies are opened  new, difficult challenges for more Stars. Last but not least are the Grand 
 Stars, which are obtained after defeating a major boss. They open up new domes on the Observatory, 
 opening up new galaxies. Noticeably absent from Galaxy are the time-consuming 100-Coin Stars. This 
 might actually just be considered as a break. Later on in the game, you unlock the Purple Coin 
 comet missions, in which you must collect 100 Purple Coins. They aren't too difficult to find, 
 but the missions without time limits are time consuming (as usual.) In addition to Coins and Stars, 
 a new type of collectable is found here: Star Bits. Collecting 50 gets you a 1-UP, and since these 
 Star Bits are almost everywhere, you'll be racking up lives galore. You'll need them. You can shoot 
 Star Bits using your Wii Remote. They stun enemies, and after they're stunned Mario can kick them, 
 allowing you to get even more Star Bits. They're also used to feed Hungry Lumas to open up secret 
 paths, galaxies, or to 'buy' a 1-UP or a Life Mushroom. Speaking of which, there's a wide variety 
 of power-ups, both old and new, that Mario can pick up to add a bit of fun and wackiness. Such 
 power-ups are the aforementioned Life Mushroom (which doubles your hitpoints meter) , the Bee Mushroom 
 (Bee Mario can hover and climb honeycomb walls) , the Boo Mushroom (Boo Mario can float and turn 
 invisible) , the Fire Flower (Fire Mario can shoot fireballs) , the Ice Flower (Ice Mario can freeze 
 water and lava, allowing him to walk or skate on ice) , the Spring Mushroom (Spring Mario can jumpreally 
 high) , the Rainbow Star (Invincible Mario is faster, and, well, invincible) , and finally, the Red 
 Star (Flying Mario canfly.) Unfortunately, they are all sorely underutilized. You only need to 
 use them two or three times each during the adventure (except perhaps the Life Mushroom) . At least 
 you can go back and replay any mission.
  The game starts off easy and linear. The game rises in challenge as you progress, but is still 
 linear. The game ends linear. The one major gripe I have about Super Mario Galaxy is that it feels 
 way too linear for its own good. You would think that since you're exploring the universe, you 
 would have many more places to explore and many more things to do. Not here. Most of the time you're 
 soaring from asteroid to asteroid, comet to comet, planetesimal to planetesimal, going for the 
 Star. Even seemingly open-eneded galaxies such as the Honeyhive Galaxy or the Ghostly Galaxy have 
 a depth of linearity. So much more could have been done. Now, just because most of the game is 
 linear, it doesn't mean that it's not one of the most satisfying games ever. Seeing what's there 
 to see, the feelings of satisfaction after getting a Star, the complete experience of the game 
 fully overshadow its problems with linearity. It's been proven before and it's proven yet again: 
 you just cannot go wrong with a Mario adventure. Moving and jumping. The very basic of control 
 schemes has really come to evolve over the years. The Wii Remote and Nunchuk certainly are much 
 different than the trustworthy gamepad, but believe me when I say that you won't miss it here.
 
  All of Mario's famous jumping techniques from Super Mario 64 return to Galaxy: the long jump, 
 the double jump, the triple jump, the backflip, the wall jump, the sideways jump, and, of course, 
 the jump. Most of them are executed exactly as you remember them, except the sideways jump takes 
 a bit of re-learning; Mario has to slide a little before he will jump. All of these jumps are joined 
 by Mario's new spin attack: it stuns enemies, it adds a bit of height to a jump, and it is used 
 in a few puzzles. After stunning enemies, Mario can automatically kick them away, and they release 
 Star Bits. These can be collected by manually walking through them, or by pointing at them with 
 the Wii Remote. You can also point at enemies and shoot Star Bits at them to stun them. All in 
 all, I wouldn't want the controls any other way.
  Nearly all of the time, the camera is positioned just the way you want it to be, but if it isn't, 
 some spots allow manipulation of the camera via D-pad. I rarely find spots that allow me to do 
 this. Not being able to look around freely (in third-person) adds to the linearity of the game; 
 it adds the feeling that you can only go forward. As a returning extra feature, you can enter a 
 first-person mode to look around freely. If you really need to, you can press the C button to re-center 
 the camera behind Mario (if applicable.) Mario comes to a full stop whenever you press the C button, 
 unfortunately. It's better to grin and bear it.
  This game also features something called Co-Star Mode, in which a second player can pick up a Wii 
 Remote and assist Mario. He or she can pick up and shoot Star Bits, help Mario get extra height 
 in a jump, and even freeze certain enemies. This is best used if the second player is a little 
 wary about video games, or unless you have a really bored friend. Either way, this game is better 
 as a single-player feat.
  
  It's time to end the term "this game has good graphics for the Wii." There used to be a barrier 
 separating Xbox 360 and PS3 games against Wii and PS2. I asked a few casual gamers/nongamers what 
 they thought of the graphics. They asked me if this was a 360 game. Super Mario Galaxy doesn't 
 just start to dissolve the barrier, it kicks the whole thing down. If more developers cared enough, 
 more Wii games could look this good. Super Mario Galaxy is the perfect example to show how pretty 
 Wii games can be.
  If there was one word I would use to describe Super Mario Galaxy's graphics, it would be 'fluidic.' 
 Everything in the game looks crystal clear, smooth, and animates well. Imaginations must have been 
 stretched to limits in coming up with so many different visual ideas for this game. Everything 
 looks gorgeous, stunning, brilliant, and in a word, fluidic.
  A prime example of such fluidity is Mario himself. A decade ago, gamers were blown away that everyone's 
 favorite plumber could now move around freely in 3-D space, and goodness, it felt incredible. As 
 the years passed, technology improved, and now we see this beloved icon in a new light. Before, 
 we thought that red, white, and blue polygons that resembled Mario was the greatest thing ever. 
 Today, a high-definition Mario is fully realized. All of his jumps from SM64 are back, and thanks 
 to newer technology, they all look much smoother. Mario's very animated here. His updated crouch 
 also provides nostalgic humor: the crouch resembles those from the old Super Mario adventures on 
 the NES/SNES, and Mario can walk around like that. It's another bit of tongue-in-cheek humor for 
 veterans, and the game is chock full of recognizable references.
  For those fearing that this game would only stick to a space motif (as did Sunshine's tropical 
 theme) , fret not. You'll be exploring much, much more than a few rocks in space. In this adventure, 
 you'll live the life of a bee in its kingdom (Honeyhive Galaxy) , scale a giant toy robot (Toy Time 
 Galaxy) , and even explore a haunted mansion (Ghostly Galaxy.) There's no shortage of variety of 
 galaxies to explore, and the graphics all suit their moods. Colorful beaches, dark hallways, boiling 
 lava, winter wonderlands, heck, even giant toy blocks  wherever you are, you can tell what the 
 theme is instantly. Every crevice of space is a wonder to look at.
  You were promised that when you saw the graphics on the Wii, you would say "wow." It took a year, 
 but there is finally a game that looks gorgeous enough so you can finally say it: wow.
  
  Featuring beloved favorites and tons of new pieces to enjoy, every bit of music in Super Mario 
 Galaxy is memorable, enriching the already-chock-full game to the brim with musical detail. As 
 Mario quietly soars to his first mission in the Good Egg Galaxy, hearing the sudden boom of music 
 as you touch down tells you you're in for one amazing ride. It's clear that a lot of care was put 
 into constructing all of the well-put-together score. You'll find yourself humming some of the 
 tunes more often than not. The only complaint is that I wish the music was louder in-game.
  And what would a modern Mario game be without the wahoo! s and the haha! s? Mario sounds much more 
 alive and much more human than in the other two 3-D Mario adventures. It's especially apparent 
 in the opening of the game, and after each time you collect a Star. Even if there's very little 
 voice acting (from Peach and Rosalina) , every character sounds like he or she has something to 
 say. Even the Toads' Oh no... saying never gets tired. You won't miss real voice acting at all.
 
  Altogether, this game proves it has one of the greatest musical scores every, plus the memorable 
 sound effects you've come to love are still loved, not to mention Mario is much more alive thanks 
 to the audio.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is "the" Wii game. It features absolutely spectacular graphics, beautifully 
 crafted music, and perfectly fine-tuned gameplay. Every nook and cranny in this game will amaze 
 you. Do not pass this game over. You wanted a reason to have a Wii. Here it is.
  
  Presentation  It's tried-and-true gameplay crafted to perform optimally in such a big universe. 
 10/10.
  Graphics  Stunning. Amazing. Gorgeous. Beautiful. Fluidic. Perfect. Must I go on? 10/10.
  Audio 
  An orchestrated score combined with beloved sound effects and a much more lively Mario. Can't 
 get any better than this. 10/10.
  Gameplay  The game is linear, but that doesn't mean it's not fun. An absolute blast from start 
 to finish. 9.97/10.
  Reviewer's Tilt  10/10.
  Final Comments  It's not easy reviewing the perfect video game. In short, this is a game not to 
 be missed.
  Final Score  10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicRaptor
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  I never liked Super Mario Sunshine and I'm really told as to why. Maybe it was the Blue Coin Challenges 
 that weren't tracked very well, maybe it was the lack of variety in level design (oh, look, another 
 soaking-wet tropical location...) or maybe it lacked the imagination and wonder that Mario is known 
 for.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is a impressive game and one that took me back quite a few times. There is nothing 
 more exhilarating than seeing Mario soar over entire planets, sparkling in their light before making 
 a landing. It's that kind of breathtaking wonder that Mario needs to be just that, Mario. The game 
 is pretty much the same as Mario 64 in terms of objectives. You run around an overworld (though 
 not nearly as large or interesting as Peach's castle) going into observatories to pick the galaxy 
 you wish to collect stars in. You pick a star for grabbing and off you go, what sets it apart from 
 Mario 64 is the way in which you collect the stars.
  
  The game is very linear from this point on, but that certainly is not a negative. You jump, glide 
 and dash from planet to planet on your way to the next star. You figure out HOW to get from Point 
 A to Point B and the journey is certainly more entertaining than the destination. Maybe you need 
 a Bee Suit, maybe you need to figure out gravity puzzles... the game really doesn't hold back here.
 
  
  My only complaint is collecting stars gets pretty old if you play for extended periods. Yes, you 
 will be taken aback by the beautiful level design but after collecting the Nth star, you want something 
 new. The side missions would do the job, but the irregularity of their spawning takes that one 
 clean away.
  
  I highly recommend this one to Wii owners, easily one of the best games of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulozora
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  I was never a big fan of the 3D Mario games, played Mario 64 and Mario Sunshine and wasn't super 
 excited about it halfway through. When I talked to a friend of mine last night who has the game, 
 he has it was one of the best Mario games he's played so far, thought he was lying, but then when 
 I tried it at his place, I fell in love with it. Went to buy it this morning and I can't stop playing 
 it, even now, I just left it on pause.
  
  Game-play: Excellent, using the Wii-remote makes game-play so much easier. There aren't that many 
 tricky moves to pull off, so learning curve is relatively easy, anyone who picks up the Wii-remote 
 would be able to enjoy the game immediately.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are amazing. Everything in the game is beautiful, the galaxies are amazing, 
 and the little Luma stars are nothing but cute.
  
  Sound: The music is beautiful and fits the game perfectly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnDW
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is the long awaited Mario game for the Wii. There's no doubt about it - this 
 is the best game on the Wii.
  
  Gameplay is pretty much the same as Mario 64 - you'll be jumping around a variety of different 
 levels, collecting coins and the all-new star bits, which act as both a weapon and as currency 
 to unlock a few hard levels. However the new space theme adds a new gravity mechanic which is just 
 great. The space theme also adds Lumas. These are little star people which turn into launch stars, 
 which allows you to shoot from one strange spherical object to another. There are a bunch of other 
 space themed mechanics which all work really well.
  
  The level design is great. Levels can include a bunch of spherical objects that just float there 
 in space or the sky. You can usually walk on top AND bottom of these. Other parts of the levels 
 are normal Mario staples with the same mechanics (though some are just normal 3d platforming ) - 
 you have your ice worlds, sand worlds, fire worlds, underwater worlds and just normal grassy environments. 
 The camera copes very well with all the turns especially on the space levels where you will go 
 upside down. When it does go wierd though it is really annoying. You can sort of adjust it. You 
 can get a bunch of suits such as fire, ice and flight. They all work well apart from the hard to 
 control spring powerup. This turns Mario into, as you would expect from a powerup called the spring, 
 a large turkey drumstick. I mean spring. Maybe it's just how well Mario controls normally and with 
 all the other suits, but the spring is just really annoying expecially on small platforms, and 
 you will frequently fall off the level into black holes, which crush Mario like the puny Italian 
 plumber he really is. Then they spew him back up to the last platform, in exchange for a small 
 picture of Mario ('lives' in the game) . The suits overall add to the level they are suited in (you 
 won't find a fire powerup in an enviroment that doesn't suit it... usually *hint*) .
  
  You access levels from a hub which has several small hut-like areas in them. There are huts like 
 the garden (because everyone knows gardens grow in space inside a small building) and the bedroom, 
 kitchen etc. There's just over 5 of these and every one has about 3-4 normal levels in them, 1-2 
 bonus challenge ones and a boss level. In the normal levels there are themes like the aformentioned 
 ice, fire, space and grassy enviroments. These play pretty much normally, and you can get about 
 6 stars - 3 normal ones, a hidden one and 2 'comet' ones, The bonus, challenge type ones are more 
 strange and abstract, and usually give you one star. The boss levels are either against Bowser/Bowser 
 Jr. and they work great, and they are sort of like Mario 64 (but no bombs this time) . Obviously 
 the number of stars and kind of levels vary. The way the system works gives you a lot of variety 
 and choice - you can stay in the same level and get all the stars or you can just get enough to 
 unlock the next ones. Comets sometimes enter levels. These add new aspects to areas in the level, 
 for instance you can get speed run and dare-devil (one hit and you die) comets. These are pretty 
 cool and challenging. Your goal is to get 60 stars then beat Bowser. Then there are another 60 
 optional stars. You can get all 120 stars, get a bonus, then get the same 120 stars for another 
 bonus if you really want to. Some of the extra 60 stars will be levels you just haven't done, but 
 the rest will be either hidden, comets, or the one problem with the game, purple coin levels.
 
  
  In purple coin levels, you are given a version of alevel where there are 100 purple coins in it. 
 There was no reason to include this and you will enevitably sit there looking for those one and 
 two ones that they've hidden away somewhere. It is really annoying and some are harder than others 
 (eg. the ones with more fiddly hidden places in them) .
  
  The graphics are fantastic and the best on the Wii. There are a lot of effects like the lava, ice 
 and water, which look REALLY nice. You aren't gonna get Crysis but the whole design of the levels 
 look great. The Gamespot review by Alex Navarro says that there are rare framerate problems - they 
 must be really really rare because it never faultered for me.
  
  The sound is just as good. The soundtrack includes old favourites and others which you haven't 
 heard yet - but they will also be your favourites. The music is all orchestrated and whoever decided 
 on the orchestra decided right. It all fits perfectly with the levels. The sound effects are great. 
 Collecting coins, star bits and crushing innocent creatures skulls all sounds great. Unfortunately 
 when you long jump Mario into a brick wall he doesn't lie on the floor screaming in agony with 
 blood pouring out of his eyes, he just utters a cute ooh! . Thats alright though. The small amount 
 of voice work is good and fits the characters. It's hard to describe everything in Mario Galaxy 
 because it does vary a lot. But it has a fantastic charm to it and the graphics, gameplay and audio 
 are the best your little white box can get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Unlike most people I loved Mario Sunshine. I wasn't sure what was wrong with it and welcomed it's 
 entry into the Mario series. Now that I have experienced Mario Galaxy I understand what the problem 
 with Sunshine was. It was expected. Mario Galaxy is exactly what the series needed... the unexpected. 
 Who knew that Mario's newest adventure would take him into a trippy outer space romp from planet 
 to planet using rocket like star slings. Nothing about Mario Galaxy anything lower than top notch. 
 It's a highly polished high concept platforming masterpiece. It was literally so good, it will 
 make me hate other platformers more. Game play wise, the controls are similar to previous entries 
 in the series, except for the motion control spinning and the star bit collecting cursor. The music 
 is very Mario and the settings and enemies are what is to be expected in a proper Mario game. However 
 the real strength of the title comes from the powerful boss battles, otherworldly unique level 
 design and the graphical step up from the norm. The phrase looks good for a Wii game should not 
 be uttered when describing Galaxy. Because it looks good period! Like previous entries the game 
 wants you to complete it as much as you want to complete it. True Mario gamers will expect to collect 
 no less than 120 stars and will simply not stop until that goal is obtained. Once you complete 
 the game you get the privilege of playing through the game as Luigi. That's right I said privilege. 
 Taking an iconic character like Mario and putting him in such an epic and cinematic adventure, 
 only makes the character stronger. Galaxy does this easily, and does it in style. The polish on 
 this game is thick and shiny and anyone who owns a Wii owes it to themselves to own this game. 
 If you don't buy this game for the Wii then you don't deserve to own a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xdude85
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  A game many of us had been waiting for a long time is finally here, as Super Mario Galaxy is without 
 a doubt one of the greatest games I have ever played.
  
  Plot: The Mushroom Kingdom is celebrating the Star Festival, every 100 years a comet passes by 
 and and shooting stars fall to the ground where they're gathered up and turn into new Power Stars. 
 Our hero Mario receives an invitation from Princess Peach asking Mario to join her at the castle 
 to celebrate and watch the Star Festival. As Mario heads towards the castle, his arch nemesis Bowser 
 arrives and starts destroying everything in his path. Bowser has aquired some new technology and 
 uses space ships to left the castle out of the ground and into space. Mario manages to get on board 
 to the castle, but is hurled into space by Bowser's troops. Mario awakens on a small planet and 
 meets a women named Rosalina, who is the keeper of the stars and travels the universe in her observatory 
 that takes the form of a comet that passes the Mushroom Kingdom every 100 years. Rosalina tells 
 Mario that Bowser has stolen the Power Stars from the castle, and the Grand Stars that fuel her 
 observatory. Rosalina grants Mario powers to travel through space, and says that if he collects 
 enough Power Stars and Grand Stars they'll be able to hunt Bowser and rescue Princess Peach. Once 
 again, it's up to Mario to stop Bowser and his plans.
  
  Game Play: Super Mario Galaxy's controls are so simple that it makes the game even more enjoyable. 
 Move Mario by using the control stick, to make Mario spin simply shake the Wii remote to break 
 objects, stun enemies, and use objects. Press the A button to make Mario jump, if press A once 
 Mario hits the ground he'll do a double jump, do this again to do a triple jump. If you jump and 
 shake the Wii remote you'll do a spin jump which will make you jump higher than a regular jump. 
 If you jump towards a wall, press A again to kick of the wall to do a wall jump, while running 
 press Z, then A to do a long jump. While running, tilt the control stick in the opposite direction 
 and press A to do a somersault, jump in the air and press Z to do a ground pound. When you get 
 near a pole, press A to jump on to it, and use the control stick to climb up, press A again to 
 jump off, press and hold Z to crouch. To grab in object, shake the Wii remote to pick it up, aim 
 with the Wii remote and shake it again to throw it at an enemy. To swim press the A button, to 
 dive underwater press the Z button.
  
  Mario is open to lots of old and new power-ups that will help you throughout the game. The fan 
 favorite Fire Flower is back in this one, pick it up and Mario will be able to throw fireballs 
 by shaking the Wii remote. New power-ups include the Bee Mushroom which transforms Mario into a 
 human bee, press and hold the A button to fly, but there's a flying meter that will go down everytime 
 Mario flys too long, simply land on the ground to re-charge your flying meter. The Boo Mushroom 
 will make Mario a Boo, press the A button to float around, shake the Wii remote to fly through 
 bars and certain walls. The Spring Mushroom will turn Mario into human bouncy spring, press the 
 A button to make Mario jump higher and reach places he could not reach with his regular jumps. 
 The Ice Flower will give Mario the power to freeze water or lava by creating tiles of ice by simply 
 walking onto them. The last power-up is the Red Star. Jump and shake the Wii remote to make Mario 
 fly, press and hold the A button to make Mario hover in mid-air.
  
  Graphics: Outstanding visuals everywhere, great details in levels, and cut scenes give Super Mario 
 Galaxy the best graphics in a Wii game.
  
  Sound: Great music in every single galaxy to travel, some tunes are even from the classic Super 
 Mario 64.
  
  Overall, Super Mario Galaxy is one of the best games you'll ever play in your life. Great levels, 
 gameplay, graphics, and sound will make this one of your all-time favorites. A game no one should 
 miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GearHead3000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is the first 3D mario game this generation, and boy it does not dissapoint.
 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in Mario galaxy are in one word, great. They do not compare to some games like Gears 
 of War or Call of Duty 4. But for the Wii, its one of the best, if not the best. The lighting is 
 key in this, making everything just a wonder to look at. Out of 10, this gets a 9.
  
  Story:
  You know this story if you have had any experince with Mario games before. Bowser takes 
 the Princess, you go off to save princess while collecting stuff and doing various, levels, save 
 princess the end. This gets 5 out of 10.
  
  Sound:
  First you must know that this game has no voice acting at all without the occasional Mario catchphrases 
 or Princess Peach saying, MARIO! But on the music side of things its amazing. Full ocristral to 
 boot. Really, this is something that is just amazing to hear, and cuts in and out at just the right 
 moments.
  This gets a 9 out of 10.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay in this is one of the best thing of Mario Galaxy. You know Mario can jump over and 
 squash things, but now he has a couple new tricks up his belt. First he collects these things called 
 starbits which pretty much replace coins, you still have coins but no inishetive to collect them. 
 You use these starbits in numerous ways, but the main thing is to fling them at fows to paralyze 
 them for a couple of seconds. You do all of this by just aiming with the Wii Mote, which shows 
 up as a little blue star on your screen. This does not sound important, but it plays a main part 
 in this game. As well as Mario's other move. This is called his spin attack. And you do this by 
 just shaking the wii mote. This move is probably the most important, taking over for the usual 
 jump in mario games. Also adding to the greatness of the gameplay is the level design. Its probably 
 one of the best in any game to date. Being able to walk upside down, and just use gravity to your 
 bitting. As well as traveling to different small planets in a galaxy. Every level/galaxy seems 
 different, and there are many of them. The only minor, and i mean minor thing that i can find with 
 the game is that in some swimming levels the camera can be a little akward, but in every other 
 parts its fine, and even with this, it only happens rarley.
  This is the best part of Mario Galaxy is deserves a 10 out of 10.
  
  Final Comments:
  Mario 
 Galaxy is the best Wii game to date, showing how to use the Wii's functionalty to its best, while 
 still not being annoying. The graphics are top notch for a Wii game and the gameplay is the shining 
 start in this galaxy.
  Mario Galaxy is near perfect, and have little issues, making it one of the best Mario games to 
 date. All of this earns Mario Galaxy a 9.5 out of 10. If you have a Wii and don't have this game, 
 go out and buy it. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan543
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  Mario Galaxy is Super Mario 64 and Super Mario Sunshine and Beyond. This game packs all what a 
 plataformer needs and is quite a masterpiece of our time. The are a some words that can be used 
 to describe the game: Dazzling, Amazing, Unique! But of course, the experience can only be lived 
 once you play the game. It all begins with some great sequences which shows one of the best Graphics 
 for the Wii out there. As soon as you take the control of Mario, you will see that is made just 
 fine, perfect for the game and not forced, like in other Wii Games. If you played Sunshine and 
 64, you will feel just like in home. Now, once you start the adventure, you will see what makes 
 this game so amazing: the level design is just astounding. From the first level you will see all 
 the creativity there can be on the designers and great design from the characters too. The animation 
 also is quite impressive. Everything runs smoothly and fine. The game is also a delight to the 
 ears: the game has a complete orchestrated soundtrack which adds a very immersive atmosphere which 
 suit every Galaxy just fine. The game itself will keep you playing for a long time. The replay 
 value is great: there are around 6 stars peer galaxy and finding all 120 is quite a challenge. 
 In the very end you will unlock a great plus that will keep you playing for another long time. 
 The difficulty is just right for the game, some stars will really give you headache. This game 
 is enjoyed from the very beginning to the very end. You will be marveled by the great job Nintendo 
 made with this game and won't regret spending every single penny on it. This is one of the best 
 games of the decade, maybe of all gaming history and should be a must for all the Wii owners. Not 
 having Super Mario Galaxy is like not having a Wii at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teamking
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  Super mario galaxy lets you think about Super mario 64 again. You get invited by peach (again) . 
 The good old moves are back. Even new moves are added to this game! Mario gets to play astronaut 
 in this version. Fly from planet to planet with launch stars . It got great graphics too. It isn't 
 too hard and it isn't too easy. In the game, there are mushrooms you can eat. Besides 1-up mushrooms 
 you can find costume mushrooms that can change you into a bee- fire- boo- ice- and flying mario. 
 each of them have their own abilities. Bee mario can fly, stand on flowers and stick to hunny. fire 
 mario can burn stuff and light up candles. ice mario can stand on water. Boo mario can fly through 
 some walls. And flying mario can fly (of course) . It is a awesome game with every game that needs 
 a 10.0! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike-revo
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2007 2:27 am PT
Review:  As platformer fall mario keeps things going with so much life. Super mario galaxy is a perfect 
 example of this. You won't find any game that offers you that classic feel through something brand 
 new. First I'l start with the graphics and they are amazing, beautiful level designs all with wonderful 
 lighting and detail, a game with such a simple artstyle has proven itself to be something absolutely 
 georgeous to look at. Mario galaxy feels and plays like mario, even with the wii remote. All of 
 his classic jumping ability and powerups are pulled of flawlessly and speaking of powerup you have 
 a mix of old and new, such as fire mario, bee mario and more and they all work great. The boss 
 fights are extreemly fun and some of the challenges can get so annoyingly fun that you cant stop 
 playing until you've got your head around it and the fact that theres a next challenge waiting 
 for you entices you to carry on, also some of the funny names for your challenges aswell. Super 
 mario galaxy is so addictive that you don't wanna put it down. The games learning curve is so easy 
 pick it up press a few button wave and point and you're playing its that simple. Super Mario Galaxy 
 is the best game on the market im a huge metroid prime fan and i never say anything is better than 
 metroid prime games but super mario galaxy has proved me wrong. People please take a break from 
 shooters, sports games, and sit down and enjoy a instant classic, something that you'll find fun 
 and I mean fun, everybody loves mario and super mario galaxy is reason to love him more, this game 
 is worth every penny and if you're a nintendo fan or jus a regular wii owner this game is a must 
 have its really that good and i mean it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dese1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best wii game to date. the levels are very linear which i really thought i wouldnt 
 like, but it reminds me of classics games with a 3d perspective. people often compare SMG to SMB3 
 and i must admit that it does do different what other games dont. The game looks good for a wii 
 game however it still fails to make an impact graphically. there are many games out there that 
 make this game still loo dated. howwever there is alot to do and its really fun and challenging 
 to get all 120 stars, the sound is awesome and the wiimote speaker actually sounds normal instead 
 of busted and blown. i really am giving this game a 9.8. -0.1 for sheer lack of grphical comparrison 
 towards other next gen games (even if that isnt the games fault) , -0.1 because it is quite easy 
 to get therough the games first 60 stars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davesade
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2007 12:17 am PT
Review:  If you don't like Mario, you should play this. After Super Mario Sunshine I lost some kind of believe 
 in Mario. Truly - New Super Mario Brothers was great and first informations about Galaxy sounds 
 great, but you know - little skepticity cannot harm. But on that day, it's like second coming of 
 Jesus. After a few hours playing and shouting oh my god, I'm not gonna to believe this, it's freaky 
 great I was really exhausted. I'm playing for more than twenty years, remembering good old tension 
 in some older classic games - it's back! Super Mario Galaxy redefines 3D platform game system, 
 mechanics and game design. Fantasia of author's was really unlimited and that's the reason, why 
 this game is so awesome. Now I have 120 stars witch Mario, playing for second time with Luigi. 
 Best game for Wii for now, I'm not gonna believe in better game, until I see it.
  (Fact - there are two negatives - controling under water is little bit confusing. And second - 
 why the hell is there lives for Mario? After Game Over I'm continuing with 4-13 lives on start... 
 It's boring to make run for lives and after that visit the hard level... I'd like to see unlimited 
 lives - in fact this is sometime frustrating half-unlimited ... but nevermind, details are details, 
 nothing changes the gloriness of Mario Galaxy...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luigisDAwinner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  The best game for the wii without a doubt. smooth controls and amazing graphics. this is better 
 than mario 64 but i guess it still doesnt beat the old side scrollers (nothing beats old school) . 
 the only negative thing i can say is once again luigi looks like a pansy. im so tired of that. 
 the multiplayer thing is kinda cool but i wish they would have incorporated the second player more 
 insted of just controlling star bits. you can do a little more but nothing amazing. smash bros 
 is probably the only game that wil be able to top this one. overall a must buy for the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintyfreak
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  first of all, if you don't have this game, leave right now, go to the shop and buy it, play it, 
 come back and then read this review. I'll wait...
  
  
  ... Back? Good.
  This game is just one of those games you don't have to play for ages to get to the good stuff. 
 Even the opening scene just makes you think "wow". And if you don't immediately start drooling 
 at the graphics, get better glasses! Don't let the fact that the Wii isn't as powerful as the Xbox 
 260 or PS3 fool you. The colours and smooth animation make this one of the most gorgeous games 
 I've ever played.
  The difficulty curve is just about right. The more you progress, the harder things become, but 
 you'll never find yourself thrown in at the deep end too soon. It's the kind of thing that would 
 appeal to both Hardcore and casual gamers, you can play it for hours, or just a few minutes.
  Just as Super Mario 64 was the defining platformer of the N64, this will certainly be the best 
 on Wii, and one of the best games ever maybe?
  All that said, i have just one problem with the game. Because of the spherical worlds, and the 
 camera angles, it can sometimes be difficult to control Mario.
  
  Still, it's just too damn good to let that stop you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blindkorn09
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing! It will bring you back to the good ol days of gaming. You see, I am 
 so sick of all the same types of games that are being released lately.... now I know that this is 
 "sequel" of sorts, but trust me it feels all very new and fresh. It's hard to explain in words 
 just why this game is so good. Now I will admit that it's a little too easy to get the first 50 
 stars, but the next 70 will give even the most hardcore gamer a run for his money!
  
  Level design = 10
  
  Control = 10
  
  Graphics = 9.5
  
  Sound = 10
  
  Fun Factor 
 = 10
  
  Tilt = 10
  
  I would give it a 9.9 if gamespot gave me the option, but since the only have .5 intervals, I went 
 with a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiltont
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 8:44 pm PT
Review:  I love super mario 64 and grew up with it as my favourite game as a child, (who hasn't?) I also 
 love super mario bros. etc. But some of the games that have come out since, lots of them have been 
 upsetting and tacy. But finally an awesome game that has been very well set out!! This game is 
 probably the biggest mario game released in a while, and the producers have done well giving this 
 game a 9.5 out of ten rating. Whenyou look at the scenery and the colors that have been well put 
 out and the gameplay and music which brings back the memories of the N64, which makes this game 
 a magnificant sequal to 64. Congratulations! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariogalaxyfan
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  I have no words for this game!!!!
  The graphics are very very wonderful, the sound is very very perfect he makes we stop to play only 
 for listen to the music, the jogability is the best in the games of the world, the fun never stop 
 when you are playing this game!!! FUN!!!
  Mario returns to your best adventure in the world!!!! Super mario bros 3 and super mario 64 can 
 be very good, but, Super mario galaxy wins!!!
  Nintendo have worked very hard to make this game the best game of mario. myamoto is a genius!! thank 
 you nintendo for give us the best game of the world!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeythemachine
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  I bought my Wii with Zelda: Twilight Princess last year expecting it to refill me with the same 
 joy that so many past Zelda titles have done since the original. I expected that, just like when 
 I was 9, I would find myself suddenly innundated with new friends who were really only interested 
 in getting intimate with my coveted video game. Neither happened. It just didn't take me away like 
 the others. Too much stopping. Every five seconds your congratulated with a 30 second video screen 
 for rounding up yaks or tying your shoes. I'll get to the point, I know this isn't a review for 
 Zelda.
  
  Mario Galaxy is everything I wanted from the Wii. It plays like an unbelievably advanced version 
 of the originals, it gives me leverage over my friends and after weeks of playing it I'm still 
 at the bastard with white knuckles and a goofy smile that makes my wife embaressed even when we're 
 alone.
  
  I love this game. I'm glad Mario was done right. It's level designs are better than great, it's 
 style is consistent and loveable, Mario is a champ, Luigi is in it, and everything else. They really 
 outdid themselves here. I don't just recommend it to people who already have a Wii, I say let this 
 be the reason you get one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Banestyrelsen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 2:07 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is unashamedly a playground; a game that doesn't want to be a movie, but was 
 designed to be played and played and played. And you are seriously missing out if you don't. 
 
  
  The controls and gameplay are solid, exceeding even what you would expect from a premier Nintendo 
 title. The new gravity mechanic works splendidly, and is amazingly fun to play around with, but 
 there is also plenty of the platforming from the previous 3D installments in the series. 
  
  The superb combination of the new weird gravity mechanic with traditional running and jumping 
 make up the main gameplay experience. This is what is awesome and unique about the game as well 
 as what will keep you coming back. Mixing things up are quite a few suits and power-ups that can 
 be used in some levels, which are all fun, but aren't as central to the gameplay as in the 2D Marios. 
 
  
  In some levels there are puzzles where you control Mario from a fixed camera perspective reminiscent 
 of his NES and SNES days, though he controls as he would in 3D. There are also two types of 2D 
 modes that use the Wii remote to navigate Mario through space: pull stars, which allows Mario to 
 swing through space Spider Man-style, and bubble mode, in which you use the Wii remote to blow 
 air on a bubble with Mario inside so as to guide him through an obstacle course. These are all 
 fun, but as with the underwater levels it's probably a good thing there isn't more of them. There 
 is enough to diversify the experience from the main platforming and keep it from being too much 
 of the same, but not too much so as to derail the experience from what you really want to do: run 
 and jump. 
  
  The graphics are perfect for this type of game. All objects feel like they belong in their environments; 
 everything feels solid, there are no clipping issues. The framerate dropped for a few seconds on 
 two or three occasions, but these were in atypical situations with a lot of glowing projectiles 
 flying through the air/water while battling enormous boss monsters in large areas (the draw distance 
 is incredible) . A higher resolution would obviously have been nice as pixelation is noticable in 
 the Wii's progressive scan mode, but odds are you'll forget about this when you're actually playing 
 the game, as you'll be too busy having fun. 
  
  The sound effects feel just right, and the music is great, and incredibly varied, featuring a broad 
 array of musical styles ranging from epic John Williams-esque orchestrated scores to synthesized 
 throwbacks to the Mario games of the 80's and early 90's, in addition to catchy original tunes. 
 The score never dominates the experience, but compliments the atmosphere in a great way. To watch 
 Mario soar through space and land with a somersault on a colourful planetoid, and be greeted with 
 "Welcome to the Galaxy!" to dramatic music as you immediately set about your business is oddly 
 satisfying.
  
  I'll stop here. Trying to break a game like Super Mario Galaxy down to its constituent parts is 
 missing the point, when this game is quite simply a lot of FUN. Play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowLaguna
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 12:29 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  Wow..... simply wow. What a game, what a game. Super Mario Galaxy is amazing and is one of the best 
 Nintendo games i've played. Everything about is incredible! It has some rather neat twists in it 
 with new features and ones that you can remember from the older Mario days. It has that Super Mario 
 Bros. 3 crossed with Super Mario 64 feel, with a bit of outer-space involved. I haven't smiled 
 while playing a game since the times when I was first playing games. I have to say, if you are 
 a Wii owner or are planning to get a Wii at some stage, please go out and buy this game. It is 
 totally worth it! This is a spoiler-free review so anyone who hasn't even heard of this game can 
 read this.
  
  THE GOOD
  Reminds you of the good old Mario days, completely ignores the flaws in Super Mario Sunshine, best 
 graphics i've seen on the Wii, emails funny stuff to your Wii's inbox.
  
  THE BAD
  Still no Raccoon Mario, still no Bowser's Kids (except for Bowser Jr.) .
  
  Graphics
  The 
 graphics are all-around beautiful. Everything about them is so jaw-dropping. Not too colourful 
 fortunately and definitely the best graphics i've seen on the Wii so far. I have seen nothing wrong 
 with the graphics in Super Mario Galaxy. It is absolutely stunning!!
  
  Sound
  It may not have much music from the more recent Mario games (such as Super Mario 64 and Sunshine) , 
 but it most certainly contains music from the more old-school Mario games. There is also the new 
 music that it introduces, the Good Egg Galaxy probably being the most memorable in the game. Like 
 usual, the voices are good with Mario's super-awesome Italian voice, although not very much voice 
 acting..... well defenitely not as much as Super Mario Sunshine back on the GameCube. The stars 
 also sound very cute. So i'm saying that the sound is pretty good.
  
  Gameplay
  Super Mario Galaxy's gameplay is a lot like Super Mario 64. It is full, roaming 3D and you collect 
 the power stars like you did ten years ago. The stars are shared amongst the many level you'll 
 come across. Other than the power stars, you can also get Grand Stars which you find after every 
 Bowser or Bowser Jr. Every level is called a "Galaxy". They are a set of little planets that you 
 can solve puzzles on and do your objectives given to you at the start of every level, like in SM64. 
 The main level is quite nice. It looks like some sort of starport with ports that take you to the 
 galaxies kind of like Warp Rooms in Crash Bandicoot. Once you get a Grand Star in one set of galaxies, 
 you can unlock other sets of galaxies, waiting for you to explore. Another set of items you can 
 collect are known as "Star Bits". These are pretty much currency in this game. There happen to 
 be some pink stars that are hungry, and they won't make a new galaxy for you until you feed them 
 a certain amount of star bits. It could be 50, it could be 200, it could be 1000!! Who knows? But 
 you might wanna collect those star bits. They are very easy to get. If you see, simply point the 
 Wii Remote at them and they automatically come to you. There are several bosses you can face apart 
 from Bowser in Super Mario Galaxy. In most levels if not all levels, you will face an interesting 
 boss that which all have different ways of killing. There are also challenges to get more stars 
 in Super Mario Galaxy after you've finished a certain objective. It could be a Speed Run or a Daredevil 
 Challenge; Speed Runs you may be familiar with already, you have to beat the objective within a 
 given time; Daredevil challenges are when you have to beat a boss without getting hit. You can 
 get extra stars for this. Like in Super Mario 64, you can find hidden stars which are "hidden" 
 in particular levels. You may also come across stars with different looks. Luigi can also be found 
 in Super Mario Galaxy. At first you find him trapped within a Haunted Mansion. Once Luigi has been 
 rescued, he can help you find stars. If he gets lost again, you will be warned by the MailToad. 
 Now, the MailToad is quite cool actually. Sometimes he sends letters to you from the Princess herself 
 giving you 5-Ups. He can sometimes e-mail your Wii and tell you that Luigi has gone missing again. 
 Yes that's right, he e-mails your Wii. The Super Mario Bros. 3 part of this game is of course, 
 the power-ups. You can new powerups such as the Bumble Bee suit which allows you to emulate a Bee; 
 the Fire flower returns; Ice Mario is introduced; and there's also Spring Mario. Odd, but cool 
 temporary powerups. Overall, the gameplay in Super Mario Galaxy is amazing is very revolutionary!!
 
  
  Controls
  Very nice controls and are very easy to use. Plays exactly like Super Mario 64 but with a few extras.
 
  
  Character Design
  How could you go wrong with Mario and the gang? And this time, Luigi's involved. New characters 
 and a new race are also introduced. Such as Mama who looks very close to Peach and Daisy.
  
  Storyline
  Again, it's cliched but Bowser has a new goal. To create a new Galaxy! And there's 
 also the back story between Mama and the stars. Not too bad this time around actually!!
  
  Overall
  The new features and days of entertainment contained in Super Mario Galaxy makes this 
 Wii game a masterpiece!! If you don't have Super Mario Galaxy, then you must be crazy! Seriously, 
 you have to own this masterpiece!! I actually think Super Mario Galaxy surpasses Super Mario 64 
 and even Super Mario Bros. 3! This is the best Mario game Nintendo have ever made, and if you can't 
 enjoy it, then you must have a huge problem!!
  9.5/10
  
  MUST BUY!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigcalkenobi
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2007 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Back in the mid 90s when the N64 launched, I not fortunate enough to get one right away. With the 
 launch comes the thing all Nintendo games launch with, Super Mario 64. I at the time didn't have 
 an N64 and I didn't know anybody with and N64. At most I was able to see it at a Walmart or another 
 store. Super Mario 64 is without a doubt the most highly regarded Mario game other than the original. 
 I think that this is because it was the first 3d game for many people. It was so amazing at the 
 time everyone was blown away because it was their first 3d game. I on the other hand didn't get 
 to play 3d games for another year or so down the line. I still think that Super Mario 64 is without 
 a doubt revolutionary, but it wasn't that special game that blew me away. Due to this I always 
 felt that there were more revolutionary games for me. 
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is the next game in the Mario series, his first game in almost 6 years, and 
 his first new revolution in over 10 years (Sunshine did nothing for the genre and while a great 
 game, not a great Mario game) . Super Mario Galaxy changes the rules of a platformer. The #1 rule 
 in a platformer is always that when you fall off a cliff or edge you die, but Galaxy changes this 
 completely. Not only does it change platforming, it shows just what the Wii can do. The game uses 
 the controls in a lot of ways that are really fun without being gimmicky. The games basis is gravity, 
 and this is a concept that Nintendo completely embraces.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy uses gravity combines with spherical worlds to create a truely awesome experience. 
 You no longer run on the ground, but around the planet. You don't fall off the ledge you circle 
 the planet. You don't fall to your death, you are sucked into a black hole. These are all rules 
 that are broken by the innovative game of Super Mario Galaxy. To describe what these planets look 
 like would be impossible. This game has such a variety, there is no way to summarize everything 
 in 1 paragraph. You go everywhere from a beach to a wooden Yoshi head, to a giant spherical ocean 
 to a giant toy in a boss fight (shadow of the Colossus style!) Tis game has so many different types 
 of planets and galaxies, its insane. There are well over 40 galaxies in this game and most of them 
 contain multiple planets. This game definitely wants everything anyone could want from a Mario 
 game. This game has 3d platforming, 2d platforming, and unique puzzles. 
  
  Many people are debating that hardcore games cannot be played on Wii (they forget Metroid Prime 
 3) and this proves them wrong in so many ways (although I bet they debate that this isn't a hardcore 
 game) . this game uses a very traditional feeling control style until you throw in the motion control. 
 It still feels very natural and very hardcore. You shake the Wiimote to do a spin attack that stun 
 or kills most enemies and it flows really well. Many people would think that it won't flow well 
 and would be difficult, but it flows so naturally that you stop even noticing once you get used 
 to it. Adjusting to the new controls take very very little time also. Nintendo had the pick up 
 and play in mind when they made this game for sure. While this game will appeal to many casuals, 
 I still say its hardcore. Many of the later missions are really hard, they are fun, difficult and 
 rewarding. Once you die multiple times and then finally beat the mission, you feel like you really 
 accomplished something. Nintendo made this game with casuals in mind for sure, but definitely wanted 
 the hardcore audience to like ti too, so they stepped up the difficulty on all of the later stars. 
 Its kind've like Smash Bros. and Halo, the game seems hardcore, but is actually casual. It depends 
 on how you play it, if you play it a lot, then it can be hardcore, but if you play it less but 
 still enjoy it, it can be casual.
  
  Next to the amazing gameplay and design is the amazing graphics. the graphics in Super Mario Galaxy 
 surpass all Wii titles so far, even the great looking Metroid Prime 3, but do the the better art 
 style in Galaxy, Galaxy gets the edge. The game has a very wide variety of levels and designs, 
 and this needs great graphics, and Nintendo delivers. The character animations look clean, and 
 some are better than others (Bowser probably looks best other than Mario himself, while Peach isn't 
 so good) , but they all look great either way. The environments look amazing. Many of them are really 
 shiny and just look pretty. I really like how the lava looks. Lava sounds stupid to be bragging 
 about, but once you get to the levels with the lava, you will be wowed. The water effects in this 
 game also look pretty awesome, better than Super Mario Sunshine, which was based around water. Altogether 
 this game just looks amazing and is very pretty to look at.
  
  The sound in this game is another thing; Its phenomenal. The have a fully orchestrated soundtrack, 
 and it sounds awesome. They have a ton of original and classic tracks which is what I really like 
 about it. Nintendo has made probably the most nostalgic soundtrack ever (in the world of gaming) . 
 They have everything from the original Mario theme to many of the tracks from SMB3 to redone tracks 
 from Super Mario 64 and Sunshine. don't let this statement fool you, Nintendo has still given us 
 several new memorable tracks that are awesome. I really like the music when you first step into 
 the first Galaxy, it just blows me away with what Nintendo can do when they go orchestrated. I 
 also love the boss fight tracks, they are very epic sounding and are just awesome. Lastly, I really 
 like the music for the Bowser levels and fights. The bowser levels track is simply a redone version 
 of the SM64 track and it sounds amazing and nostalgic, just how I like it. Nintendo deserves a 
 real pat on the back for this one, this is another area that they really did an awesome job on.
 
  
  Back to my story. I always looked at SM64 as a great game, no more no less. I understand the significance 
 to it and think it is one of the most influential games ever made, but it didn't feel like the 
 most revolutionary thing in gaming to me as it did to others. Other Nintendo titles (along with 
 a few others from 3rd parties) filled the void for me. This is the point I'm coming to, SM64 will 
 not stick with me as a huge revolution in gaming as much as Super Mario Galaxy will simply because 
 Galaxy breaks all the rules in platforming that have been there since the original Super Mario 
 Bros. Super Mario Galaxy is phenomenal in almost every way. The graphics are great, the gameplay 
 and control is just perfect and redefining, and the soundtrack is the most nostalgic thing ever. 
 Basically this is the best 3d Mario ever, and perhaps the best Mario ever (SMB3 is really darn close) . 
 If you own a Wii, I don't care what type of gamer you are, you must own this game. Its almost a 
 system seller. This is the ultimate single player experience on the Wii (next to Zelda and Metroid 
 of course) , while SSBB will be the ultimate multi-player experience on the Wii. If you were thinking 
 about buying a Wii, this is a great reason to. No matter what anyone says, I'd still list this 
 as a hardcore game, although it will appeal to casuals it is a hardcore game at the basis (much 
 like Halo) . Go out and enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tc_dude
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  First let me tell you that this game is easy, not un-satisfyingly so, but easy enough that you 
 will be able to experience all that this game has to offer without too much effort on your part. 
 This is both a good thing and a bad thing
  
  Cons: Spring Mario sucks, but you get used to it eventually. Swimming sucks too, because the camera 
 underwater just can't keep up with your constant turns and dives, so the camera doesn't always 
 stay behind you. Thankfully most of the time you can just grab a koopa shell and ride it underwater, 
 which is totally awesome, and a lot of fun.
  
  Pros: You know how Super Mario 64 was kinda repetitive? Making you go back to the same level 7 
 times to get stars, and then you have to get 100 coins, which was just frustrating, and felt like 
 filler. Now, in Super Mario Galaxy there are no more 100 coin quests or lengthy 8 red coin search 
 quests (however, there are star piece and silver star search quests, which are much shorter and 
 sweeter) . Also the most you have to go back to the same level is 5 times, and every time, you will 
 travel to different planets, and there are probably over 500 of these, and there are still 120 
 stars to collect like super mario 64, so that means that super mario galaxy has alot more variety 
 and different levels. Some of the galaxies (equivalent to paintings, in super mario 64) only carry 
 1 star, but they are so cool that you wish they had more.
  
  The graphics are amazing, at no point is this game ever bland, best looking game on the wii hands 
 down, and comparable to games with much better technology like Halo 3, simply because super Mario 
 galaxy is designed so beautifully. 
  
  Forget what ign and gamespot said, the camera in this game is flawless, unless your underwater, 
 but like i said, you can usually grab a koopa shell for amazing underwater fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Durffen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  
  Since E3 2006, gamers have been dying to play through Super Mario Galaxy, with words from Nintendo 
 such as, "This is the true successor to Super Mario 64 why would you now want to play it? 
 When it comes to Mario and his platforming adventures, we are never let down. Of course, spin-offs 
 can some times be a bummer. But, even Mario's spin-off titles tend to be a success, like Mario 
 Kart, Mario Tennis, and Super Mario Strikers. The main Super Mario games are were the most fun 
 is at, with games like Super Mario Bros 3, Super Mario World, and now, Super Mario Galaxy. It's 
 tough to say what Super Mario game is the best. But theres no arguing that all Super Mario games 
 are incredible. Especially Super Mario Galaxy.
  
  As any Mario game starts off, you are invited to go see Princess Peach at the Mushroom Castle. 
 As you are on you're way to the castle, what do you think happens? Mario gets brownies? Nope. Bowser 
 and his flock of air ships arrive to ruin everyone's day as he lifts the castle with the chains 
 from his air ship. As the castle is being lifted into space, Mario is still on the bridge, running 
 to the castle, a Kamek appears, and blasts the bridge Mario is standing on, causing Mario to drift 
 off into space. Mario then awakens on a planet, and is greeted by Princess Rosalina. After Mario 
 is informed that Bowser has stolen all of the stars to Rosalina's ship, Mario agrees to help gather 
 the stars back in order to save Princess Peach, and the universe. Being as it is a Mario game, 
 there is no need to expect a very deep story to get into. But, Princess Rosalina has a back story 
 that you can read through out the game as you unlock chapters for it. This is optional though, 
 so if you don't feel like reading it you don't have too.
  
  
  Finally, Fire Mario in full 3-d!
  
  Super Mario games always shine when it comes to gameplay. 
 So you can expect the most from Galaxy. With a mixture of classic Mario elements, and some new 
 elements, makes Galaxy one of the funnest games of all time. There are over 30 galaxies, each with 
 different sections and many different planets, with as many as 7 stars per galaxy. It is space, 
 so you can expect a lot of gravity changes, and being able to do a full circle around a whole planet 
 with one jump is pretty cool. If you are a hardcore gamer looking for a hardcore game, don't have 
 any second thoughts about Super Mario Galaxy. With 120 stars, this is good for well over 20 hours, 
 and you never know what will keep you going after you get all 120 stars. And the difficulty gets 
 harder as you get further into the game, so hardcore gamers, worry no more!
  
  Galaxy takes some great use the the Wii Remote, although they definitely did not go overboard with 
 motion controls or IR functionality. Many people are ready know you shake the Wii-mote to do the 
 spin attack. But something interesting you may not know, but still probably already do know, is 
 that you can shake the Nunchuk to do the spin attack, but then again everyone else probably knows 
 that already. Once again, Nintendo did the right thing with the Wii-mote with motion controls. 
 There are interesting side galaxys, such as one where Mario stands on a ball containing a star, 
 and must jump on the ball and roll it through a course of obsticles and gaps to break the star 
 out of the ball. This is all controlled by holding the Wii Remote straight up and and tilting it 
 like a joy stick. And, a second player can drop-in and drop-out mid game for a nice little two 
 player fun. The second player controls an icon on the screen by pointing at the sensor bar, in 
 which you can point at enemy's and hold them for as long as you want so first player can go attack. 
 This may not be a full out co-op mode, but it is a nice feature and having a second player can 
 come in handy in certain galaxies.
  
  Although playing through the game is a great experience, theres no doubt Galaxy is a great looking 
 game. Wii is not the most powerful console, but Nintendo really used all of it's power, along with 
 great art design and very detailed environments, and great lighting effects and shading, Galaxy 
 really is does show off what Wii can do, and really gets you thinking about what Nintendo could 
 do if Wii had full HD support, and really makes you look forward to seeing what else Nintendo will 
 do. For the tech kind of people, it runs at 60 frames per second in 16:9, 480p. Galaxy pushes the 
 limit for visuals, but what else could we add to the game that makes it even more enjoyable? More 
 brownies? Nope. How about some of the best music work in any video game ever? Yeah, that helps. 
 Fully orchestrated music, very relaxing music that fits in with the game so well. It is really 
 enjoyable to listen too while playing, and there are some little remixes of classic Mario tunes 
 here and there.
  
  Of course, every game has it's flaws. Including Galaxy. The camera can be very unreliable in certain 
 areas. And although it really works well through-out most of the game, it tends to get stuck behind 
 objects in places were you need it on Mario. Also, no game is visually perfect. Galaxy looks great, 
 but if you get up close with the first person camera, textures can look pretty bad. Although the 
 game very fun, it only takes 60 stars to beat the main story, which i know many people have been 
 complaining about. I personally think it should have been kicked up to 80.
  
  Overall, Super Mario Galaxy is the best game on Wii so far, and is one of the best games out there, 
 if not, one of the best games of all time. You should not hesitate to pick it up, unless you don't 
 like Mario. Even if you don't like Mario, I'm sure you will enjoy this game, and i still suggest 
 you pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mewt2021
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Mario Galaxy was a real enjoyment for me. I haven't come by many great games for the Wii. This 
 game made me remember why I own a Wii. The controls took about 1-2 minutes to learn. The game-play 
 was good, I never really got mad when I died in a level because the game was so much fun I didn't 
 care if I had to do something over. The game itself seems like Mario grew up. The story doesn't 
 seem like something just any child would understand. Also the game seemed really intense for Mario. 
 The only thing I had against this game is that it the missions in the levels were really easy. 
 I was able to beat this game before I even went into the last two rooms. This game is a must for 
 everyone that owns a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acsguitar
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  I don't think I've played a Mario Game since Mario 3 (and I never really enjoyed those games) However, 
 this game rocks. Great graphics (For the Wii at least) and amazing controls.
  
  The universes and planets are really neat and the challenges just hard enough. 
  
  Add in some 
 fun bonus levels and you have a great game.
  
  I wish there was a mulitplayer aspect to play some of the bonus levels. Maybe there is and I missed 
 it. 
  
  The use of the Wiimote in this game is fantastic. Not too much and not too little. I get excited 
 when I get to use the remote and some levels (especially bonus levels) you use the remote in new 
 and exciting ways.
  
  A great game although apparently some Mario Junkies don't think so but thats ok 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiiWiiataus
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2007 1:20 am PT
Review:  It is awesome. I like this game so much. Everyday when i back home i just start to play hours and 
 hours. ...... ........ .... ..... .... The graphics is so greatful and it is interesting of collecting 
 those stars. ....... ....... .... There are lot of galaxies we can find in this game, i really like 
 the BeeMario, its funny and cool. Nintendo deserves respect from us cuz they give us a lot of fun. 
 Love Mario Galaxy Love Nintendo!
  Super Mario Galaxy is the best Wii game of this year and is one of the best game of 2007. I've 
 already voted Galaxy for the best gome of 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebirdboi06
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2007 11:14 pm PT
Review:  There's hardly anyone out there that will argue that the Mario platformer series is the series 
 responsible for giving birth to the industry as we know it today, as well as the careers of many 
 a designer and game journalist. It should come as no surprise then that Shigeru Miyamoto and his 
 team at Nintendo have crafted another superb Mario game.
  
  In this one, surprise, surprise, Peach gets kidnapped by Bowser. This time, he takes her and the 
 castle with him into space and then disappears as mario is flung from the steps of the castle. 
 Afterwards, Mario awakens to find himself on a very small planet with a woman named Rosalina who 
 gives him the power to fly through space, limitedly mind you. 
  
  With this new found ability and the limits of gravity lifted from this space setting, Miyamoto's 
 team has gone absolutely hog wild with some of the level design. Some of it is so brutal it makes 
 you wonder if you're missing something, and then there's some that's so much of a cakewalk it feels 
 like an introduction for the new gamer crowd. But rest assured, the cakewalks end quickly enough 
 and soon you'll be after all 120 stars to beat the base game in full. 
  
  This plays a lot like Super Mario 64, in that Rosalina's observatory acts like the castle did in 
 64, while domes and galaxies act like the floors and paintings in 64. And just like in 64, there 
 are some galaxies that only have one star (the 64 equivelent would be the secret stars) that are 
 typically activated by hungry Lumas.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is also one of the best graphical showcases on Wii. It has a very diverse pallet 
 of art direction that is still bound together, while the technical graphics are the biggest push 
 seen on Wii yet. Don't believe me? Try some of the really gravity-intensive levels. At times what 
 seems impossible suddenly becomes reachable with a change in gravity or what I coin the "Orbital 
 Long Jump", where you circle around an entire planet in a single bound. 
  
  Also, once you collect all 120 stars as Mario, you'll unlock the ability to play through the entire 
 game as Luigi. If you manage to get 120 stars as Luigi, there is then ANOTHER STAR that becomes 
 unlocked after the fact. If you're looking, it's where the Green Trial Galaxies are. But, it will 
 not appear before Luigi gets 120 stars. 
  
  So, while it may not appear to be much of a return-play incentive, for all of the genius that is 
 wrapped around, and for the memorable moments, I feel compelled to pop in Galaxy, despite having 
 all of the stars. This game is not only a must-own for Wii owners, but a must-own for gamers, period. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smoresvscoco
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  I dont actually own this game but it is really good. I played it at my friends house and of the 
 little that i played of it, i was impressed. The graphics and the idea of the game are great. It 
 also is challenging and seems pretty long which is good because then you can play this game for 
 a long time. I played this game for like 5 hours straight and i never got bored. There is always 
 something for you to be doing. I also like how each level is different so it doesnt seem like you 
 keep doing the same things over and over again. I am a huge fan of the Mario games and i am glad 
 they did a great job on this game. good job! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiifan127
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Mario's back in his third 3-D platformer, Super Mario Galaxy. There was Super Mario 64, which was 
 awesome, yet depressingly hard to find all of the stars. Then there was Super Mario Sunshine, which 
 was a deep disappointment because of all the "cleaning up" levels. Nintendo has finally struck 
 a balance between awesome platforming and challenging levels. 
  Of course, Princess Peach gets kidnapped by Bowser, except in a different way. He lifts her castle 
 into space, and Mario grasps onto it. He gets blown off after it clears the atmosphere and it thrown 
 into deep space. He wakes up on a small planet where he meets Rosalina, a princess that "watches 
 over the cosmos" or something like that. Then you are introduced to Super Mario Galaxy's hub-world, 
 a fairly big spaceship. It is not as big as the other two game's hub-worlds, but it doesn't need 
 to be because it is cool yet simple. You have to collect power stars and Grand Stars, which are 
 bigger stars that you get for beating either Bowser or Baby Bowser. These also power the spaceship 
 more, which runs off of power stars, and it will open up new areas and light up more areas for 
 you to explore.
  Don't worry: you face Bowser 3 times in this game, unlike the one lame Jacuzzi battle in Sunshine. 
 You don't grab his tail, but you beat him in a cool way. Bowser is totally bada** in this game. 
 He doesn't speak English and sound like a pirate, like in Sunshine. He grunts and roars, and spits 
 fire. You'll be happy the old Bowser came back. 
  You access the games worlds, or "galaxies" and there are 40 or so for you to explore. You get to 
 them like the way you did in 64. In 64, there were doors that required stars, now there is a map 
 that shows you how many stars you need to open up the next galaxy. The galaxies are accessed by 
 domes that you can then choose the galaxy you want to fly to from there. There are 6 domes, with 
 5 or so galaxies in each. There are usually 2 big galaxies, which have 6 or seven stars in each, 
 and 3 tiny galaxies that only have one star. There are 120 stars to collect in all.
  Now there is another thing: Wii control. Luckily, Nintendo isn't stupid by trying to make everything 
 Wii controlled. You point at the screen to collect star bits in levels, which are the games money, 
 which you feed to creatures called "Lumas" that turn into additional galaxies not in domes. You 
 shake the Wii remote to make Mario spin and activate "Launch stars" which fly you to other planets. 
 Of course you use the control stick to move Mario, and there are a few galaxies that utilize Wii 
 control, but these are rare, and work great.
  Now, I'm not going to reveal secrets that you can unlock if you get all 120 stars, but I'll say 
 it's a heck of a lot better than 64's secret. As for my favorite galaxies that you should look 
 forward to? I like the Good Egg Galaxy, which is the second level you go to. It has great music. 
 Speaking of music, some of the galaxies have orchestrated music, which is fantastic, along with 
 some techno remixes of some old Mario songs. Back to my favorite galaxies. I love the Melty Molten 
 Galaxy, which is a great lava world. The Ghostly Galaxy, which is the ghost world in this game. 
 There's Toy Time Galaxy, with some awesome platforming design and gravity awesomeness. Gusty Gulch, 
 with awesome music and platforming coolness. I like a lot more, but there are so many of them.
 
  If you play this game to its fullest, it will take you probably 40-50 hours to complete. Now, 
 I said I wasn't going to reveal any secrets, but you can do A LOT of stuff after you get all of 
 the stars with Mario. So if you're a completion person, this game will last you a long time. 
 
  There are also other things to talk about. There are Prankster Comets, which will change a certain 
 thing in a level to make it more challenging. You get stars for completing these. They will do 
 things like you have to beat a level in a certain amount of time, race a shadowy doppelganger, 
 the enemies move twice as fast, you have to beat a level without getting hit once, or my least 
 favorite and only thing that I don't like about this game, the Purple Comet. In these you have 
 to collect 100 purple coins, and these are used so often it maddens me. Sometimes the game's auto-camera 
 gets in the way when you're trying to get some coins, and they are just boring. They could've used 
 them so much less. Instead, it's the most frequently used comet. Oh, well. You'll feel a great 
 sense of accomplishment when you beat these levels. There are a couple of purple coin levels that 
 I have fun with, like Toy Time Galaxy's purple coin level.
  The auto-camera is used so you never have to move the camera. It usually works great, except on 
 some of the big galaxies. So, basically, the game leads the player, instead of the player leading 
 the game. Kind of like a movie with more control. The game also supports widescreen TVs and boasts 
 the best graphics on the Wii.
  Overall, Super Mario Galaxy is a great accomplishment and maybe the best Mario game to date. Packed 
 with nostalgia and great moments, this game rocks. This is the Mario game to have. You might even 
 consider buying a Wii just for this game. The frame-rate rarely dips, and runs smoothly. This game 
 also has some of the best level design in a game ever. I'll shut up now, but you better go and 
 buy this game right now. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VMan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  My first hands-on experience with Super Mario Galaxy was at a playable Gamestop Wii kiosk. There 
 was already a boy playing the game with his friend watching. He played the game up until achieving 
 the first star then quit. His friend asked him how was it and he shook his head as if in disappointment. 
 Completely disregarding that sight, I excitedly picked up the Wiimote and Nunchuk and tried the 
 game out for myself. Somewhat surprisingly, once I started, I really did not want to stop. I found 
 myself having some of the most genuine fun with a game, platformer or otherwise in quite a while. 
 I knew then just as I know now: That boy simply had little or no appreciation for very solid, high-quality, 
 and darn fun platforming.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is easily the best and most fun platformer I've played since Super Mario 64. 
 It is almost scary just how comparable this game is to its (in my opinion) true predecessor. The 
 overall structure of game is basically the same it has been in 3D since the debut of 64. Mario 
 must collect a number of power stars by traveling to various worlds (or in this game's case, galaxies) 
 that contain a variable number of power stars that Mario chooses to pursue specifically. An interesting 
 thing to note about this whole process (from booting up the game to travelling to a galaxy) is 
 that it is almost seamless. Let me just say that Nintendo knows their hardware and they know it 
 well as load times in this game (after loading a save) are practically nonexistent. This is quite 
 interesting in this modern day of game console technology.
  
  One of the first things I noticed about this game was just how pretty it is compared to all other 
 Wii content I've played. The only games I've seen that come close are Twilight Princess and Metroid 
 Prime 3: Corruption. The game looks very smooth and clean and serves as proof that the Wii is capable 
 of a lot more than we've typically seen so far.
  
  Nintendo has really taken a progressive step in putting more focus on story and character development 
 here as well. In general, Galaxy has the most impressive production values of any Mario game I've 
 played yet. All the main characters have much more personality than is typical of games in the 
 series. Most notably here is Luma, a girl you'll meet shortly into the game, and especially Bowser 
 who actually has some vocal dialogue that, as a result, makes him feel a lot more "real" than ever 
 before. Even the music has taken a step up in quality and tone. The musical audio includes familiar 
 types you'd expect to hear during gameplay, but what surprised me was how epic the soundtrack is 
 at key points of the game such as during cutscenes and especially boss battles. The music really 
 serves to accent these moments very well and even give the game a bit of a mature feeling.
  
  The gameplay in general takes a cue from 64 in how well-thought out and varied the level-design 
 is. The Wiimote is often used to add some innovating twists to the gameplay such as holding it 
 vertical and tilting it to help Mario balance on a ball. You'll even find that you often have to 
 take on alternate forms to progress through levels and they are all fun. For example, in the bee 
 hive galaxy Mario will often have to transform into a bee to reach higher levels that he's normally 
 incapable of, or climb walls sorted with honey. What is even more interesting is the fact that 
 these form mods are effectively incorporated into boss battles as well. Another interesting thing 
 about the level design is the fact that Mario will often have to use special "launch" stars to 
 propel him over various parts of the map. This really creates of sense of exploring a big, wide 
 open area in space and it is quite beautiful to see Mario soar through the air. These touches only 
 serve to make the gameplay even more interesting and in some ways innovative. I can honestly say 
 there wasn't a single Star hunt in my entire experience with the game that I didn't find fun. That's 
 how solid this game really is. 
  
  My first experience with the game's controls surprisingly gave me somewhat of a fresh, "wow" feeling 
 similar to the first time I experienced 3D analog control with Super Mario 64 and I think the Wiimote 
 and Nunchuk motion sensing as well as the Wiimote speaker functionally contributed a lot to this. 
 One of the first things you'll notice once you take control of Mario is the use of real-time on-screen 
 targeting using the Wiimote similar to how you can control the fairly in Twilight Princess. Only 
 now the Wiimote can be used to pick up star bits (star fragments) and shoot them at enemies. I 
 really like the touch created by the use of the Wiimote here in that when you use the Wiimote to 
 pick and fire star bits, special audio comes from the Wiimote, itself and adds to the immersion. 
 For the most part, the controls, like the gameplay in general, are quite simple (no doubt a design 
 objective by Nintendo) , but they work quite well because of the simplicity. Mario's main attack 
 is a spin attack performed simply shaking the Wiimote or Nunchuk. You'll actually find yourself 
 shaking the Wiimote quite a bit as it used for the majority of Mario's special actions. Its not 
 a problem, though as it works fine nearly all the time. The reason I say "nearly" is because among 
 these actions is Mario's ability to throw projectiles. I personally feel the shaking of the Wiimote 
 in this particular context is unnecessary and inefficient. Because you must shake the remote, you 
 have to make sure Mario is properly facing his target before throwing which results in somewhat 
 impractical aiming. The Wiimote aiming functionality is right there, why not use it? (I understand 
 Nintendo may have wanted the ability to use the Wiimote to shoot Star Bits always available but 
 never did I find the necessity to do that when launching projectiles)
  
  The game's camera works well enough to get the job the done solidly, but unfortunately, its not 
 completely robust. It's a bit difficult to program a camera to work properly in game that moves 
 like this. Mario moves up, down, left, right, and upside down walking around planets in any manner 
 gravity will allow, so it does take effort for the camera to keep up and set itself properly. Because 
 of the very abnormal ways Mario can move, there are times where you end up with inconvenient or 
 just plain bad angles. Also, I felt the inability to center the camera or enter free-look mode 
 was too frequent. At the same time, however, as a programmer, myself, I can understand how difficult 
 it can be to program a very robust camera for this game, and considering that it still works better 
 than many of platformers I've played, I can't say it's a big deal. 
  
  Super Mario Galaxy upholds and strengthens the series' reputation for outstanding platforming and 
 is arguably the best. It simply compares to Super Mario 64 in every way and is absolutely fun to 
 play from start to finish. It sets the standard for platformers in this day and age, and if you 
 have any appreciation for the genre, then know Super Mario Galaxy is one of its best to come around 
 since Super Mario 64, and thus, one of its best ever.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AWESOME_GAME
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  You're time is up Super Mario 64. After years, the game everywone was waiting for has come, together 
 with an all new view for gamers. This isn't just a Mario game, it's much more, and no wonder it's 
 called galaxy! You will venture youreself through lots (and I mean LOTS) of diferent galaxy's. 
 All of them diferent of one another. You will go from haunted mansions to sunny beaches, snow mountains 
 to lava lands, vast waters to sky... You will fly through asteroids, looking for the thing that 
 our favorite plumber most wants. Stars. Not only normal golden stars and hidden stars, but green 
 stars and even a red star. Another interesting addition is the Grand Star. The Grand Star is the 
 most powerfull of them all, and it allows you to open a new dome (that are hubs for new galaxies) , 
 and to get them, you will have to defeat massive, intimidating bosses. Oh yes, the bosses. Well, 
 we can remember that one of the flaws of Super Mario 64 and Sunshine was the lack of bosses. Well, 
 this doesn't happen in this game! There are lots of bosses!!! You will be battling a skeleton fish, 
 a giant robot, a bizzar rock monster, a dino piranha, and lots lots more!!! Finaly a Mario Platformer 
 that introduces a good number of bosses! You wont only be battling bosses at Grand Star galaxies, 
 but at any other galaxy! They can appear when you least expect, wich is realy cool. Well, the graphics 
 about this game.. Uuhh, I realy don't see another word rather than perfect. The graphics are incredible, 
 with beautifull colors. And another new thing that was introduced to this game were the Mario Suits. 
 Yeah... We did have those three Mario hats at 64, but that was nothing!! Now, in Galaxy, you will 
 find Bee Mario, Boo Mario, Star Mario, Ice Mario, Fire Mario, Spring Mario and Flying Mario (phew!!) . 
 Yes, all these with totaly diferent abilities. The Bee Mario lets Mario Float in the air for a 
 short period of time, and let him grab at honey combs. Boo Mario lets him become invisible, passing 
 through walls, and float. Star Mario is the most powerfull one of all. Well, you probobly know 
 how it is, it makes Mario become totaly invincible, jump higher and run faster (destroying anything 
 that comes appon him) . Ice Mario is realy cool, it lets Mario walk on water, freezing it, and skating 
 on it! Fire Mario is also awesome. Its the first time Fire Mario Appears in a 3D game! Fire Mario, 
 for people that doesn't know, makes Mario shoot those famouse fire balls. Spring Mario is the only 
 suit that is a little hard to controle, this suit makes mario jumo much, much higher. And for last, 
 the suit that returned from 64, but in a brand new way, Flying Mario. This suit makes Mario Fly, 
 and it's much cooler than that winged hat! This is a red/black suit, and it's realy cool to controle 
 Mario in the air, because it's so smooth, and you can also stop him in the air to look around. 
 Well... Flaws for this game... Not much I guess... You CAN find a little false camera angle, but 
 tell me one game that you can't? Oh, one of the flaws. I realy didn't like the fact that you need 
 to collect only 60 stars to end the game... It should be 100!!! I mean, you can get 60 stars in 
 like 4 days or less. And I realy think Nintendo should end this 120 star rule (well, actualy there 
 are 121 in this game) . I think they sould of made this game with 200. Would be much cooler. Well, 
 thats the only flaw I can see. So, if you have a Wii, and don't buy this game, then kill youreself. 
 This is the best Wii game yet, in my opinion. And is also the best looking one. So, concluding, 
 this game is a must buy. So buy it. Today. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UncleLev
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  The plumber in red and blue has come a long way from running up slopes and jumping over barrels. 
 In the latest adventure, the Italian hero finds himself in the vastness of space, where up and 
 down have no definitive meaning. Once again, the super-villain, Bowser, is up to no good. He has 
 kidnapped princess Peach, and escaped deep into the universe, and it's up to Mario to save the 
 day.
  
  After the princess is kidnapped, you awaken to find yourself in an unknown world. Soon after, you 
 meet some nice little lumas (star creatures) and arrive at a space station inhabited by a starry 
 princess, Rosalina. Rosalina tells you that if you are to rescue Peach you will need to find power 
 stars in order to fuel the space station so that you can travel deep into the universe. Much like 
 all of the previous Mario titles, Galaxy doesn't have a very rich plot. Keep in mind, this is a 
 platform game, so going overboard with the story is only going to make playing the game a bore 
 - we have our premise, and we have our motivation; the rest is up to the game-play experience.
 
  
  If you are at all familiar with Super Mario 64, then Super Mario Galaxy should come quite natural 
 to you. In fact, the control scheme is virtually identical to that of Super Mario 64  for better 
 or for worse. There are some questionable choices the developers continue to make, as well as several 
 new ones, regarding the control that I am not too fond of. Since Galaxy is overall an absolutely 
 entertaining and incredibly enjoyable game, I feel that I ought to get these gripes off my chest 
 right away so I can move onto more pleasantries.
  
  Timing your jumps in succession will result in the double and triple jumps, and pressing the Z 
 button right before jumping will cause Mario to leap into a long jump. It works well, mainly because 
 so many of us have become accustomed to this system. Though, it does seem a bit odd that performing 
 a long jump is achieved very similarly to pulling off a butt-stomp (jump and then Z  or Z then 
 jump) , when the two moves have completely different effects. This will most certainly spell disaster 
 for you on several occasions as you stomp down onto nothing but miles of open sky below you, when 
 you really hoped to long jump. It's not a perfect system, but it at least works for the most part. 
 An annoying little quirk, which seems to have survived into the transition from the N64, is that 
 once you are set in motion in a specific direction (particularly while jumping) , changing direction 
 doesn't feel as fluid as it should. It happens very rarely, but it has been responsible for taking 
 my hard-earned Marios countless times. Speaking of accumulating extra lives  don't strive too 
 hard for more than you need in a gaming session, because saving your game will not save your extra 
 lives.
  
  Of course, since this is a Wii title, Nintendo wants to take advantage of their Wii remote. For 
 the majority of the time, it comes as quite natural and easy to get ahold of, but there are several 
 "mini-game" aspects of Galaxy, which seem to unnaturally force the Wii remote upon you. First of 
 all, there are a couple levels which you ride on top of a ray and surf the seas. Controlling your 
 direction is managed by turning the Wii remote to the left or right  a feat which does not seem 
 as intuitive as you might think. Also, there are a couple levels in which you are balancing on 
 top of a ball and roll around on it. Controlling the direction is done by holding the Wii remote 
 in an upright position and tilting it forward to go forward, backwards to go backward and of course 
 left and right to go to either side. It sounds easy enough, but execution is a completely different 
 thing. That is because, the Wii remote is incredibly sensitive  much more than you would naturally 
 expect. Tilting the remote just a little bit can have Mario rolling off a cliff before you even 
 have time to process what is happening. The problem is that many of these levels would be incredibly 
 simple if you were to use only the analog stick, so one can only make the assumption that these 
 are unnecessary forces of the Wii remote that could have been optional or left out. If you can 
 do the same parts over literally 10-20 times being shouting obscenities at your Wii, then you know 
 something is up. And when you say to yourself over and over how easy these parts would be if you 
 could do it with the analog stick, then you know it was a poor decision to force the Wii remote 
 on you. It's not just that it is difficult to manage, but that it in no way feels intuitive to 
 the action which you are performing on screen. It would be understandable if the Wii remote in 
 some way symbolized an object on screen you were moving, but it doesn't  it's just a directional 
 device. By this sort of thinking, they may as well have forced you to turn the Wii remote around 
 all the time to control Mario's every movement. Thank every deity there is imaginable that they 
 didn't do that.
  
  Although improved since Mario's first appearance in 3D, the camera does still host a rather schizophrenic 
 personality. It typically serves as a helpful companion; always adjusting itself to get the best 
 angle of the action or zooming to a vantage point to give you a general idea of what your surroundings 
 are and what you should be doing. But, it is not without its faults. Sometimes the camera thinks 
 so much for itself that it is thinking differently than you are thinking, and doesn't consider 
 what would be best for you, the player. There are a few areas in particular in which the camera 
 is caught behind a wall making you invisible. There are also times in which the camera thinks it 
 knows best but forgets it's merely a collection of logical programming and has no real brain. That 
 is to say, sometimes the camera will do things that it thinks are right for the game, but are wrong 
 for your particular position or movement patterns. This will lead to your demise on a variety of 
 occasions, and more specifically, in certain areas. Though, truth be told, the camera is quite 
 smart and does very well for it's purpose even if it does behave badly every so often, and deserve 
 a spanking. Most platform games simply tail behind your character, but at least the 3D Mario engine 
 attempts to always keep a good angle and let you know what you are up against. For that, the camera 
 should be praised for doing a pretty darn good job at finding the best shot of the action.
  
  All of the games throughout the history of the Mario legacy have always revolved around having 
 fun and creating an enjoyable experience. With that in mind, Galaxy is no different. The gameplay 
 in Galaxy is quite similar to Super Mario 64, but with an added dose of ingenuity, creativity and 
 humor. In Galaxy, you will come across a large number of different levels, called galaxies, all 
 of which have their own individual theme and style. Also like in Super Mario 64, there are multiple 
 stars to collect from most of the galaxies  many you are informed about, and many secret stars. 
 Since Super Mario Galaxy has a space theme, there are also certain occasions throughout the game 
 in which comets will orbit a galaxy adding an affect to the level, and also giving you the opportunity 
 to collect another star. There are several different comet types, which have different effects 
 on the galaxy such as completing the level in a certain amount of time, completing the level without 
 taking damage, racing a parallel version of Mario and collecting purple coins. Regardless of whichever 
 comet type is orbiting whichever level, you are almost guaranteed to be up for a challenge. You 
 don't need to collect all of the stars to complete the game  you only need 60 out of the 120 possible.
 
  
  Since Mario is now surfing the skies, many levels no longer restrict you to the "you up  ground 
 down" philosophy. In fact, most of the levels are now modeled in a way that you can run all around 
 a planet or object, meaning you can run on the surface underneath a platform you had recently walked 
 on top of. It's a bit difficult to portray exactly what I mean without seeing it, but needless 
 to say, the developers have really applied some creative mechanics based around gravity. Sometimes 
 it is never possible to fall off a platform as doing so would only have you sucked back up from 
 the gravity of the plane. Other times, you jump from planet to planet or object to object by jumping 
 high enough that you leave your current object's gravitational field and get sucked into the gravity 
 of another body.
  
  The added style of gameplay, consisting primarily of creative gravity mechanics, would be nothing 
 in execution if it were not for some really well thought out levels. Without a doubt, the level 
 design in Galaxy is top-notch, with some of the most satisfying platform gaming ever. Levels vary 
 in theme from the deserts and haunted houses that many of us have grown up with, to more futuristic 
 settings like in open-space with spaceships and the like. Not only are the levels incredibly unique, 
 but there is a considerable amount of variation in how you play through many of the levels as well. 
 Additional power mushrooms in Galaxy will now transform Mario into a variety of different forms. 
 You can become a bee and fly around and stick to honey, and even turn into a ghost to sift through 
 certain barriers. There is even the classic fire-throwing Mario, which has been around from the 
 very first Super Mario Brothers game. And to rival the fiery wrath of Mario is the newly added 
 ice-Mario, who can run across water as it turns into ice. There is also spring-Mario, although 
 he is just as much of a pain in the ass, as he is of a pleasure. Occasionally, you even get to 
 soar around in the sky unaided, although these parts seem to be much rarer and not quite as enjoyable. 
 While the situations that you get to play as these powered up versions of Mario don't consist of 
 the majority of the gameplay, they are at least frequent enough to keep things fresh and different 
 as you tour the universe.
  
  Sadly, if you are just trying to finish the game as quickly as possible, it will not take you that 
 long. Collecting 60 stars is a cinch and can be done within 5 hours  possibly even less. While 
 some levels will keep you at a standstill working your best to earn that special star, many other 
 levels can be beaten extremely quickly with little or no effort. I am not sure if I was just too 
 much in the groove of playing Mario Galaxy, but there were at least 5-10 stars that I earned in 
 one or two minutes tops. Most gamers will want to put a little more time into Galaxy than a quick 
 finish, because there is an awful lot to see and do. In fact, I completed the game before even 
 realizing that there was a whole other room containing 4 or 5 different levels I had never even 
 knew existed! Don't be mistaken into thinking there are hundreds of levels though, because in reality, 
 most of the time you spend replaying the same levels in different ways. All in all, Galaxy contains 
 between 20 and 30 levels  some much longer or shorter than others.
  
  If you are a perfectionist, and want to make it your mission to obtain all 120 stars, know that 
 you will be up for a few frustrating challenges, but you aren't looking at anything that will take 
 too much time out of your life. Surprisingly, I was able to obtain all 120 power stars in under 
 a week, without the aide or help of anyone else or any guides. To be honest, I was expecting a 
 bit more of a challenge, especially since I never got around to completely finishing Super Mario 
 64, but sadly Galaxy wasn't that difficult. There were a few levels which I did repeat the same 
 parts countless times sometimes for more than an hour (for example, the blasted toy level where 
 you have to collect the purple coins) , but once you get through those difficult power stars which 
 hold you back, you won't find many others that will intimidate you quite the same. I can only recall 
 maybe three different power stars that I really had to put an enormous amount of effort into obtaining 
  the others came fairly easy or simply with a little bit of practice. If you are a regular gamer 
 or pretty savvy with platform gaming, don't head into Galaxy expecting too much of a challenge. 
 Because it is marketed towards a general audience, Galaxy doesn't put up much of a fight, even 
 if you are trying to perfect it.
  
  Visually, Super Mario Galaxy is top notch  well, for Wii standards anyway. Let's be realistic, 
 the graphics are really great looking, but they couldn't ever dare to compare to most games on 
 PS3 or Xbox 360. In retrospect, if this is the best that the Wii can boast, it's portfolio is sadly 
 last-gen. Don't get me wrong  the graphics are really beautifully done  it's just that in today's 
 gaming era, one would have hoped to at least see Mario in higher resolution or modeled out of a 
 larger number of polygons. But this review is for Super Mario Galaxy specifically, and not the 
 Wii's horsepower, so for the tools available to the developers of this installment, the visuals 
 are excellent. One cannot expect a carpenter to craft a log cabin when you only give him mud. The 
 team behind Super Mario Galaxy did seem to push the Wii to its potential, so credit should be given 
 when it is due. Most of the character models are more rounded than ever before and everything from 
 Mario and Bowser, to koopas and goombas look great.
  
  After taking a first glance at these character models you might get the impression that the game 
 is using real time lighting throughout the world. Well, here is another bummer because sadly, it 
 is not. I was a bit disappointed to notice several dead giveaways indicating the lighting effects 
 were pre-rendered. For one, the shading and lighting on character models do not coincide with the 
 shading and lighting on other character models present. In other words, the lighting and shadows 
 on character models imply there are either light sources coming from multiple directions which 
 we can't see or they are simply pre-rendered. Another dead giveaway are the shadows of hovering 
 objects  as an object ascends or descends, the shadow below it does not increase or decrease in 
 size. Many objects only cast circular shadows as well, instead of a shadow in their masses reflection. 
 One would have hoped that by now we would be seeing real time lighting effects to the arsenal of 
 the Mario engine, but it appears as though we are only being tricked into thinking that it is present.
 
  
  Most of the texture work throughout Super Mario Galaxy is very colorful and detailed, although 
 there are occasional textures throughout the universe which seem oddly plain  as if they were 
 taken straight from the N64. The visual saving grace of Galaxy is the way that the polygons and 
 particles come into creating appealing imagery, through the use of creative design and construction. 
 In this sense, Galaxy is incredible with a large range of the most beautifully and well designed 
 environments and character models ever seen in any Mario game. Planets are rounded and Galaxy even 
 has 3D lava - both of which look surprisingly awesome for a Mario game. The line of sight is quite 
 far, and popup is minimal at all times. There are also some nice uses of particle effects, which 
 are possibly the best the Wii has seen so far. Although relatively simple looking - the penguins 
 and toads look cute, as does Peach and Rosalina. Bowser looks as angry as ever and now has flowing 
 hair. All of the character models simply look great and manage to retain the same personalities 
 that we have come to recognize. If you had to compare the visual prowess of Super Mario Galaxy 
 to every other Wii game released so far, it definitely takes the eye-candy cake.
  
  But more impressive than the graphics of Super Mario Galaxy are the sounds. I am actually quite 
 baffled and amazed to say this, but without a doubt, Super Mario Galaxy has some of the best music 
 I have heard in a video game in a long time. Most of the music is really pretty or majestic, and 
 other tunes are just perfectly suited for their respective levels. When you play through a haunted 
 house, you will hear eerie music, just as when you are playing a desert level you will hear Egyptian 
 music. Most of the score consists of the sounds of an orchestra, although there are a few nice 
 piano-only pieces as well. I never thought I would hear some of the best music in gaming coming 
 from a Mario game, but truth be told, the music is up there with the best. There are a few secrets 
 throughout Galaxy which require you to collect music notes, and as each note is collected it sounds 
 another note of the song  the funny part is that if you have a good memory you should recognize 
 one of the tunes from Zelda: Ocarina of Time. Of course, there are a wide variety of songs from 
 previous Mario games, remixed in a range of different styles. The sound effects are generally what 
 you would expect of a Mario game, and spoken dialog consists only of those one or two worders ("okay", 
 or "let's begin") , which feels a bit unnecessary. Also taken from the Zelda series is the addition 
 of a rather irritating alarm noise that constantly sounds when you are low on health. It's nice 
 for the heads up, but it can get on your nerves. Another interesting and unrelated note is that 
 seed spitters (from Ocarina of Time) have made an appearance in Galaxy! Generally speaking, nearly 
 everything sounds excellent and those which I didn't particularly care for are merely a matter 
 of personal taste. Without a doubt, Super Mario Galaxy sounds better than any of its predecessors.
 
  
  And, if for some reason you get tired of goomba stomping or helping your incompetent green-suited 
 brother, you can drop by the library to read a short story detailing the story of a little girl, 
 who appears to be Rosalina. It isn't a necessary element of the gameplay in Galaxy, but the storybook 
 feature is always there if you are feeling like you need a rest from star collecting. As you progress 
 through the game additional chapters become available to read allowing you to get the whole background 
 behind the mysterious woman helping you. Don't go off thinking this is RPG quality storytelling, 
 but it can't hurt that it is there and at least adds a little more "soul" to Galaxy.
  
  If you have a Wii, then you probably already know, but if you don't let me remind you: it is your 
 duty to purchase this game. It is a must-own for every Wii gamer there is. It is one of, if not 
 "the", best looking games currently available on the Wii and the gameplay is unmatched by any platform 
 game to date. Built upon incredibly innovative approaches to how you play, and mixed in with some 
 of the most creative level designs ever, playing Super Mario Galaxy is a definite treat  one you 
 shouldn't live without.
  
  
  
  Gameplay: (10) As good as platform gaming gets. Incredibly creative with lots of power-ups, sweet 
 gravity effects and an enormous amount of well balanced variation.
  
  Graphics: (8) Some of the best visuals the Wii has to offer, but sadly, not up to next-gen standards. 
 Camera can ocassionally be a bother, but everything is generally excellent.
  
  Sound: (10) I am a bit embarassed to say it, but some of the best music in gaming dwells within 
 this universe. Sound effects are what you'd expect in a Mario game, but the music is the real treat.
 
  
  Lasting appeal: (9) A huge amount of various types of gameplay, with some huge levels and lots 
 of secrets and extras for the perfectionist. It's only a shame that some levels are too easily 
 beaten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakeyBoy123
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  It is finally here. The game that has had Mario fans drooling for the last year has arrived. Mario 
 makes his first proper adventure on Wii his greatest and it is definitely living up to the hype.
 
  
  (SPOLIERS IN THIS REVIEW)
  
  
  Story
  
  Now Mario has never got any awards for story. Mostly because it hasn't changed in the least. Bowser 
 kidnaps Peach and you rescue her. Things HAVE changed here, but not much. It is the Star Festival, 
 an event held every century to celebrate the passing of a star filled comet.
  
  
  Peach in a simlar way to SM64, invites Mario over to her castle to give him something special. 
 A reward for all the hard work from the last 20 years? No but a small star thing that ill get to 
 later. As you go through Toad Town, all hell breaks loose as Bowser and his airships (with SMB3 
 music) start bombarding the town.
  
  
  Bowser kidnaps Peach again along with her castle, while in the process sending Mario into space. 
 There, he meets Princess Rosalina, a mysterious Peach look-alike. AS well as giving a special power 
 to Mario, she guides him to the Comet Observatory, which acts as the hub world. She then reveals 
 that a certain number of stars are needed to power the conservatory so it can fly and rescue Peach. 
 The chase is on..... AGAIN.
  
  
  Gameplay
  
  
  The defining thing about the Mario series is it's incomparable gameplay. Many questioned whether 
 of not this game could even come close to SMG4 in terms of gameplay. Well heres news for you, it 
 matches it and kicks it outta the park.
  
  I'm not kdding, all the basic Mario moves are here. The triple, long, backward jump and side somersault 
 are all here. Mario's newest move is the Spin Attack. This can be done by shaking the wii-mote. 
 It can be used to stun enemies, turn switches and launch star cannons. It ias nice addition to 
 the gameplay.
  
  
  As in SM64 AMD SMS, you have to collect stars from different galaxies. These are found in terraces 
 around the Comet Observatory. Main galaxies have 3 main stars, i hidden star and two comet stars. 
 Hidden stars are basically stars that can be found in another star scenario, and to find them you 
 will have to take different paths and the like. Comet stars are special stars that give you set 
 challenges. I'll explain them here:
  
  Daredevil Comet: Go through a star with only one life
  
  Speedy Comet: Go through a star on 
 a time limit
  
  Cosmic Comet: Race against a Shadow Mario-esque version of Mario through a level
  
  The Fast-Foe 
 Comet : Makes certain enemies faster
  
  Purple Comet: Have to collect 100 purple coins within a level 
  
  
  There also smaller galaxies 
 that offer a bit more of a challenge with varied gameplay using the wii-mote.
  
  
  
  Worlds
  
  
  To keep a game fresh you need plenty of worlds to explore, and not only that 
 they have to be unique in their own way. Galaxy definitely delivers on this. There's water worlds, 
 distant space worlds, fire worllds, ice worlds, desert worlds, spooky worlds and so much more you 
 will never find any of the galaxies boring. My two personal favourites are the Toy Time Galaxy 
 that is built with Toys as mazes, and Freezeflame Galaxy, a galaxy that superbly mixes fire and 
 ice.
  
  
  Difficulty
  
  Many feared that this game would be too easy. And for the first 60 stars it pretty much is. The 
 bosses aren't that formidable with many being defeated on the first try. However after those first 
 60, the quest to get the other 60 is much harder. Some of the purple coin mission will have you 
 cursing at the screen (i HATE dreadought purple coins) .
  
  
  Sound
  
  If there is one thing that will never leave my mind about this game, it is definitely the music. 
 All orchestrated, there are classic tracks that will have the retro fans jumping for joy. The new 
 sounds are also out of this galaxy (Pun) . i keep going back to the final part of the final boss 
 just to hear the music. its that good.
  
  
  Graphics
  
  One word to describe the grpahics. Mesmerising. I honestly never thought the Wii was capable of 
 such beauty. There is brilliant character animation, effects (water is so good) , shading and clear 
 fur. It'll never beat the likes of Halo 3 of COD4 but it comes pretty close and is the best graphical 
 game on the Wii.
  
  
  Longetivity
  
  This game will kepp you on your Wii for months believe me. With over 120 stars to collect you will 
 have a long while collecting them all. Then theres the small issue of Luigi, who you can play through 
 as once you get all 120 stars as Mario and defeat Bowser again. Will you get all 120 stars again 
 and get the special finale waiting for you at the end?
  
  
  
  Overall:
  
  
  This is Mario made perfect, the genius in level design, the sound, the graphics and most importantly 
 the fun make this the best Mario game of all time. Period. Now stop reading this and get this masterpiece 
 of a game!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voldemort8989
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  This game is extremely clever and easy to pick up on. As soon as I started to play, I had no trouble 
 working the controls. Nintendo really out-did itself this time by bringing Mario to new worlds. 
 The graphics are pretty nice, but the best thing has to be how many levels there are to explore. 
 It isn't a game that will frustrate you after you can't beat a certain level too. Some levels will 
 test your skills, but in the end it's just plain fun. Once again you have to face Bowser, which 
 in my opinion is the best part of the game. by gathering more power stars you discover more and 
 more galaxies. Part of the fun is collecting enough to finally face off against Bowser and his 
 oddly-themed levels. It's also nice that the game has a different theme for each galaxy. This game 
 has something for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coltspwn
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Being the most hyped up Wii game up to date, Super Mario Galaxy had HUGE expectations. The Gamecube 
 installment of the Mario series, Super Mario Sunshine, was fun, but wasn't completely satisfying. 
 I mean, come on, a jet pack filled with water? Super Mario Galaxy, as all Mario games, doesn't 
 have much of a unique story. Bowser captures Peach, and you have to rescue her. Which makes me 
 wonder (this is a little off subject) but wouldn't have Bowser realized that Peach is out of his 
 league? Why doesn't he go after some other chick, like Rosalina? Anyways, like I was saying, the 
 story in Galaxy isn't much different from previous Mario games of the olden days. What is different, 
 though, is the way the story is presented. The theme of Galaxy is space and gravity, which was 
 a bold move by Nintendo. Many games have tried celestial themes, but none pulls it off like Galaxy, 
 and the Wii-specific controls are the icing on the cake. And if you have seen any of the game play 
 movies, you know that the graphics are SPECTACULAR. The Wii isn't exactly a graphics beast, but 
 Nintendo did a really good job on this one, with no dips in frames-per-second. The game play: fun, 
 addictive, and elegantly designed. The graphics: indescribable. Super Mario Galaxy: the best game 
 by far for the Wii, and the perfect gift for this holiday season.
  
  Experience it for yourself. GET THIS GAME. PERIOD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azshorty2003
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Mario Galaxy is a great game that does so many new things for the series, with the new abilities, 
 power-ups, Wii controls, level design, and so much more. Yet for some reason i cant stop comparing 
 it to Mario 64 the entire time i play it. i still remember all the hours sucked into Mario 64 and 
 how addicted i was to that game, sadly i don't have the same feelings for Galaxy. while it is very 
 good, i find myself not as interested as id hoped to be. i do have complaints about the game, mainly 
 camera control. its not as in your control as it was with 64. it does get in the way, especially 
 during segments when you're sideways or upside down.
  
  i did have worries from the start about how good it would be with Nintendo deciding on the small 
 world environments rather than the large vast levels from 64. i find there are levels i really 
 like and levels i dislike completely. one thing i notice right away that disappoints me is there 
 is not as much exploring this time around, and finding out all the secrets. each World follows 
 a formula. two real levels, two easy "one star" levels, then the Boss level. plus each World has 
 a secret level you unlock by feeding the guy outside of it Starbits. yes there are levels you go 
 back to, to do races, or time trials, but it doesn't add much. its not like finding the hidden 
 race in the castle in the painting, or finding out that the rabbit running around in the basement 
 has a star, or even simply the eight red coins in each stage. 
  
  the controls are fine, they can be problematic at times, but for the most part they work. the special 
 pointer control segments are cool. pushing yourself in a bubble with the pointer, or the star road 
 segments are a nice change of pace, they're like taking breaks from the main segments. the one 
 thing i don't like at all is collecting the starbits, they serve no real purpose other then to 
 unlock the hidden stage in each World but feeding him to the guy. you generally don't use them 
 on enemies, you can, but theres no real point, these are the same easy enemies you've fought over 
 may Mario games.
  
  the graphics are good, even on my big screen they hold up pretty well. no real complaints, but 
 then again i don't expect perfection from Wii graphics. some people would say they're jaggy, and 
 they can be, but those are the people that are used to 360's or PS3's kind of graphics. 
  
  overall the game is pretty damn good. its fun, entertaining, and a solid entry in the Mario series, 
 but its far from #1. Mario 64 made so much more of an impact, and i still believe even as old and 
 dated as it is, is far superior over Galaxy. Mario 64 was just that good and entertaining. 
  
  i know i spent most of this review talking about the bad, but thats because you've gotten enough 
 of everyone else talking about the good. its a solid buy, and one of the best Wii games out there. 
 although id does strike me at parts that certain areas would be too complicated for a young child. 
 
  
  Buy it and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryana-Chan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is truly the best Mario game I have ever played. The gameplay is innovative 
 and just plain amusing. The galaxies you'll visit are numerous, huge, extremely detailed, and look 
 absolutely great. Like Super Mario 64, you will have to collect all 120 stars scattered in all 
 those galaxies, which are all different from the other. The game itself offers a great challenge 
 to complete, and I doubt that young children could actually succeed in gathering all 120 stars. 
 Still, everybody will probably be able to enjoy the beautiful sceneries and the wonderful gameplay.
 
  
  The only thing that keeps me from giving this game a perfect 10 is the storyline. Mario games have 
 never been known for having a wonderful, well-developed storyline, but this time they tried to 
 create one, and failed. The main story revolves mainly around Peach being kidnapped by Bowser yet 
 again, and Bowser's desire to build an empire and rule the universe with Peach at his side. 
  But, when you gather enough stars, you will unlock chapters for the book you can read in the library, 
 but this book tells you the story of Rosalina and her childhood, with horrible drawing to accompany 
 the text, and the story is just downright boring and has nothing to do with the game. Personally, 
 I could care less that Rosalina lost her mother, and most chapters show her crying or playing with 
 Lumas. Plus, if you do have the courage to read it, the background music is sure to get on your 
 nerves.
  
  Anyway, fortunately the story doesn't really matter and doesn't affect the gaming experience. Plus, 
 when you beat the game a first time with all 120 stars, you will unlock Luigi, who too must gather 
 the 120 stars. It makes the game longer, and offers the opportunity to be able to play as Luigi, 
 which rarely happens in Mario games.
  
  All in all, this is by far the best Mario game I have ever played. Beautiful graphics, great gameplay, 
 awesome galaxies to visit, and the camera works like a charm most of the time. The soundtrack is 
 really cool, too. For people who don't have a Wii, this game is really worth of buying the console. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_tails
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  I'm beginning to notice, that when Nintendo releases a major game of one of their franchises, everyone 
 takes notice. 
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is an utterly brilliant game. One would have a hard time trying to find a game 
 that is more fun in this day of complex story telling and pumped up graphics. This is gaming at 
 it's very finest. Instead of crafting a deep and interesting (and sometimes plain confusing) storyline, 
 Nintendo again have over-simplified the basic Mario game story, which is, Peach gets kidnapped 
 by Bowser, and Mario pursues.
  
  Of course, there is a problem with the narrative of the game. Every level (or galaxy) you visit, 
 you fail to make the connection between the plot and the level. But this is something seen in every 
 Mario game. Every game features a variety of themed levels (i. e fire, ice, desert, green etc) , 
 and there is just no connection between them. Maybe due to the complex story telling we've seen 
 in recent years since the last Mario outing, we as gamers have become expected to have anything 
 join nice and linear? Well, so the case may be, I don't care. You will have such a blast exploring 
 these levels and trying to get the Stars that you too won't really care.
  
  The gameplay. I can't say enough, except, wow, great and fantastic. Nintendo of course, have taken 
 the unique control scheme of the Wii and showed the world what it's little console can do. There 
 are different control schemes within the game that corresponds with the action within the game, 
 and every time the scheme changes, it doesn't feel awkward or tacked on. Of course there hasn't 
 been much change from the overall gameplay of normal play. Mario still triple jumps, ground pounds 
 and wall to wall jumps, but Nintendo have beautifully translated this scheme to the Wii-mote and 
 nunchuck. I should also mention that, the spinning attack Mario picks up in this game is fun, a 
 lot of fun. Personally I always get a thrill when I spin my Wii-mote around to make Mario to do 
 the same.
  
  Sound is just amazing. For the old school Mario fans, there is a lot of return to 80's and 90's 
 Mario music. My personal favorite is Toy Factory's background music, which features a remixed version 
 of that very first Mario theme from Super Mario Brothers. But, what could we expect from Nintendo? 
 They always try to cater for their long-term fans, as well as trying to lure new players to the 
 Marion franchise.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is so far, the best game for the Wii. Sadly, Twilight Princess can not be seen 
 as a true Wii game, since it was ported over last minute for the Wii's launch. So, we can say this 
 is the Wii's first proper Nintendo game. And what a splash it made! It doesn't compete with other 
 high powered, pumped up graphical heavyweights going around at the moment, but from a artistic 
 stand-point, this game is bloody well beautiful. 
  If you own a Wii, go and get this game right now if you haven't already. And if you haven't even 
 gotten a Wii, I demand you find yourself one quick and pick this game up. 
  This is gaming at it's very, very best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dinofan01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is probably the bets game I ever played. I am a hardcore Nintendo fanboy but 
 was always picked on a little because Nintendo is too family friendly. Galaxy just gives me more 
 fuel to fight off those Halo fanboys. Nintendo know has just about every great game under the belt. 
 I am so glad EAD Tokyo did not mess this up. I was a little scared that such a young development 
 team was handling this property. I just wish it was a little harder. This has some of the best 
 game design ever. The game gave some cinematics but they were so good I just wanted more. 
  
  SPOILERS
  
  Oh and I wish Luigi was as tall as the NPC Luigi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jkwiz1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is maybe the greatest game for wii or ever will be.
  Wonderful graphics, beautiful music, and awesome game play!
  The storyline is not a surprise, 
 but who cares! you must get Super Mario Galaxy!!! There might be other games for wii later you 
 want. but if you can get anything, its super mario galaxy!! even if you have never heard of a supre 
 mario game, your getting this. Its not to easy, not to hard, its a perfect video game. If your 
 worried about short game play like me, get this game. its as long as any other super mario game 
 which is kind of long.
  
  I say Super Mario Galaxy is a MASTERPEICE!!!
  
  Nintendo went over the top on this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blixa999
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  So I was iffy on this one, not thinking that Mario had much left in his strange plumber tank, but 
 then I got playing and was so deep in, I forgot how much I was playing. the most fun of the game 
 is the old standby of Mario going to different levels (worlds this time) and the special abilities 
 and characters within them. Yes some of the costumes are frustrating (I HATE THE SPRING One but 
 love the ghost one) but all in all it will be fun. Another gripe about this game is that it's too 
 easy, which is true if you just go for the 60 stars you need to get to the last Bowser stage. However 
 try going back and doing some of the blue comet stages, some are really really tricky and hard. 
 Great game, no wonder it was voted most wanted game of this Christmas! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clutch22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  I'll make this short... for those of you who have liked mario since it came out... or those of 
 you who loved Mario 64... then this is a game you must have in you library... its got all the classic 
 enemies plus a whole new onslaught of new ones that you'll love... there are new Mario forms and 
 tons of new and crazy levels that your gonna have a blast playing with friends or even your girlfriend... 
 there is only really one thing that you may not like to much about this game... the camera tends 
 to get all over the place... some times you can change it behind you but there are points in the 
 game that they won't let you move it or use the first person look modes... but thats just a minor 
 problem that you porbly won't even care about. enjoy this game... its an instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adeehr01eb
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  I am not sure why some people feel the need to bash it because it's not the same as other Mario 
 games. I figure the whole experience should be a new one every time they create a new game in the 
 series, and Galaxy sure lives up to it. Taking off the 3D and feel of Mario 64 and Mario Sunshine, 
 Galaxy take it just a bit further. Mario 64 was a fantastic game and should be the gold standard 
 for any 3D platform game, but I believe Galaxy has lived up to that legacy and done itself justice. 
 Sunshine was a dissapointment in my eyes, just not as pure fun as 64 or Galaxy.
  
  If nothing else this game should be bough for the fun you will have playing it. I've converted 
 my non game playing wife who is a teacher into an instant gamer with this one. She tried Sunshine 
 but didn't like it. Galaxy she fights me for the control of the Wii to play it.
  
  I really don't know where I'm going with this except to say that all the posotive reviews so far 
 I completely agree with. The neysayers are just crying because it isn't exactly what they wanted, 
 or it's too hard at times for them. Those people need to go back and play GTA.
  
  Two Words to finish the review. BUY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pro_gamer12345
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  The Mario franchise is one of the franchises Nintendo ever created and they have succeeded. Nintendo's 
 last game that involved Mario in a 3d plat former was Super Mario Sunshine. Even though the game 
 was good it had a few problems involved. In 2007 Nintendo decided to make a new game with Mario 
 involved and take a new direction. The game that they created was marvelous and it is the best 
 WII game to date. I am serious on this one.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is just outstanding. The gameplay could not get any better than this. So 
 Mario jumps on his enemies to kill them. You could jump on them or simply spin the Wiimote or the 
 nunchuk to do a spin move. The spin moves will be useful such as jumping to greater heights or 
 either breaking crystals or boxes. They could stun your enemies which gives you the opportunity 
 to jump on them or kick them. They used the wiimote so good in this game. Nintendo knew not to 
 overdue the motions with the WIImote. Adding to the wiimote motions they added suits. The suits 
 that you aquire gives Mario a special power that allows you to hover, go through walls or just 
 simply jump higher than you could normally do. As you progress through the game you will collect 
 something called star bits. These star bits are used for opening new levels. Which could give you 
 the extra stars you need for the game completion. When you go to a planet you do not stay on that 
 one planet. You move planet to planet to complete that chapter. There are stars that give you extra 
 boosts to go to other planets and you just spin the WIImote. and you're off. The game isn't perfect 
 though. The camera may be in a wrong position which could lead you to many frustrating deaths. 
 The Spring Suit in Super Mario Galaxy isn't too fun. It's hard to control and once again could 
 lead you to many frustrating deaths. 
  
  
  
  Story: The game starts off with Peach inviting Mario to a festival. Every hundred years there is 
 a star festival. You start off by running to the castle, talking to toads and collecting star bits. 
 Just as you reach the castle as usual Bowser comes and ruins the moment. He steals the castle threatening 
 to take over the galaxy. And you're off to rescue Peach and the Galaxy. The story may sound cheesy 
 as it is but who plays Mario games for the story right?
  
  
  
  Controls: The controls works every time. The spin move didn't work for me only once. And that is 
 very impressive for a WII game. I have no other thing to say about the controls. They are just 
 so good.
  
  
  
  Graphics: The WII may not be in good in graphics as the other systems but Nintendo did a pretty 
 good job on presenting this game. Every little planet you go to there is so much detail. The background 
 is outstanding too. The visuals on Mario are excellent. 
  
  
  Replay Value: This game so much replay value. I' am not going to spoil anything. You have to get 
 the game yourself if you want to know what happens after you beat the game. But I will tell you 
 some stuff. There are comets that make you beat a certain level under a time limit, beat the level 
 with one health or race against yourself. It may not be clever but one thing is for sure. It is 
 very challenging. 
  
  
  
  The game is outstanding in every way. But you will want to pick this game up yourself, just simply 
 play it and awe in amazement at it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dracula_16
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  You'd be hard pressed to find a more anticipated Wii game this year than Super Mario Galaxy. Mario 
 games in the past have been responsible for delivering incredibly high quality experiences. Does 
 Super Mario Galaxy live up to the Mario name? You bet it does. This is one of the most polished 
 games I've played in years. 
  
  You'll notice right off the bat that Galaxy completely destroys every other Wii game in terms of 
 graphics. This is due to a combination of things. Every environment you come across is beaming 
 with life and looks very vibrant. Every single enemy, explosion and boss character have a huge 
 amount of detail. Mario also animates very well and all of his moves, attacks and jumps look razor 
 sharp.
  
  A common problem with Super Mario Sunshine (Mario's last console game) was its camera -- that problem 
 has been fixed here. 95% of the time you won't need to do any shifting with the camera angles. 
 If you ever need to move it you can press up on the D pad to go into a first person perspective, 
 or use the C button to reset the camera directly behind you. If you truly want to be nitpicky then 
 it's possible to say that Galaxy has a few minor camera hitches. There were a handful of times 
 where the camera was pointed at a rock and all I saw was Mario's silhouette. Other than that the 
 camera works just fine.
  
  The graphics may have a child-friendly look to them but don't let that fool you; the difficulty 
 is well balanced. I was initially worried because the first few galaxies were extremely easy but 
 the difficulty ramps up over time and eventually you'll come across some real tricky gameplay. 
 
  
  You won't have to worry about cheap deaths because the controls are almost perfect. The only thing 
 that stands out is the swimming controls which aren't intuitive at all. Your controls are inverted 
 which might not sound bad at first but when you mix that with the fact that it's hard to grab something 
 under water if you accidentally swim past it, you've got something that stands out as pretty dumb. 
 There were times were I was literally 3 feet away from a shell but I couldn't get it because I 
 kept getting disoriented and mildly annoyed with the controls. The controls on land work just fine 
 so you can end your worries there.
  
  The way that gravity works in Super Mario Galaxy is quite innovative. There are many cases where 
 you'll be on a floating piece of land/debris. If you jump off the edge you're momentum will carry 
 you to the opposite side of whatever you're standing on. (upside down, in other words) You'll occasionally 
 have to make use of this feature by jumping/running around when you're upside down. The gravity 
 contributes greatly to the originality of the level design. 
  
  Contrary to what Alex Navarro has said in the review here at Gamespot, the gameplay is by far the 
 best part in Galaxy. To be more specific, the level design and pacing is a huge part of why I love 
 this game so much. Some highlights include rolling on top of a ball and jumping in 2D like in New 
 Super Mario Bros on the DS. The variety goes a long way in making the experience fresh throughout 
 the entire game. All of these unique elements are introduced perfectly so there's never a point 
 where you'll feel overwhelmed. 
  
  The sound is no slouch either. However, I have a hard time believing how someone can find the soundtrack 
 to be memorable. It was impossible for me not to smile when I heard a remix of an old Mario song 
 but other than that I barely even noticed music was there. There are occasionally some voice clips 
 to be heard and what's there sounds great. Most of the time you'll be reading your way through 
 text which is a disappointment. There's one case where you'll here Peach talk and she sounds great. 
 I don't understand why Nintendo is so stubborn on voice acting. 
  
  Beyond the sound, you'll notice that the story is very standard Mario stuff because what it basically 
 boils down to is you getting back Princess Peach after she's been taken by Bowser into the centre 
 of the universe. There is more to it than that but that's all you really need to know to get the 
 job done. 
  
  Within the first few hours of playing Super Mario Galaxy, it became obvious to me that a lot of 
 effort went into making this game all that it can be. Nintendo has truly gone the extra mile with 
 Super Mario Galaxy in making it a very memorable experience. If you own a Wii then you absolutely 
 should have this game in your collection. Thanks for reading.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: g4supercraz1111
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  The return of the Jumpman! Though Super Mario Sunshine's gameplay was a little disappointing; I'm 
 sure Super Mario Galaxy's gameplay will not.
  Super Mario Galaxy takes Mario back to his platforming roots. What makes Super Mario Galaxy an 
 outstanding game is the level design. All levels take advantage of the gravity which is another 
 reason why the game mind blowing. It is just fun to jump off the edge of the cliff just to be wrap 
 around a platform or planetoid. The controls are well done. Unlike some wii games, this game does 
 over use the motion sensing capabilities. Whenever motion sensing is used in the game, it is feels 
 great. The only negative aspect of this game is although the bosses are fun to fight, some are 
 very easy to defeat. Overall, this is a must have game for the Wii. If you are a fan of platformer 
 games this game is the ultimate platformer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sithc
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  It's my first tiome writing a review here. but I just can help telling u that this game is EXCELLENT. 
 It is a game easily get on , addictive and u don't want to stop after u turn on the console. The 
 big Boss are very cool and u want to replay and replay again. The only down side is the 3D environment 
 make u dizzy but u will get use to it..
  
  You should get it if u play one game a year...
  
  Thank you Mario and Nintendo for making those 
 awsome games....
  
  I wish that other game dveloper can develope game of this level... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuramak
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Mario Galaxy is a great game, much better than Mario Sun Shine, but not yet good or revolutionary 
 as Mario 3 or Mario 64, still one of the best games for Wii.
  Mario Galaxy have a great song track , some old songs some new.
  A different way to play with 
 all the planets, some times is difficult to control Mario upside down , controls mostly work pretty 
 well .
  I haven't seen a single bug , no loading waiting , it really works as it should .
  Great design also , probably the best for wii .
  Many old characters and new ones . Bowser is 
 really great in this game not like the pathetic Bowser of Mario Paper .
  This is one of the top 10 games for wii for sure .
  If you have a Wii , buy it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dehearik_nova
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy brings a new leash of life to the nintendo wii roster of games in the sense 
 that a huge adventure hasnt been made since legend of zelda twilight princess. This game can keep 
 you going for 40-50 hours as there is more than enough to do, there are 120 stars to college and 
 some of them take 20-30 to get, maybe even longer than that. Although the attacking is limited 
 to jumping on heads or spinning once every 5 seconds the fun of just jumping from planet to planet 
 counteracts the lack of combat. the level designs are amazing and defienalty some of the best the 
 wii has ever seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolf360rev
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  This is one of Mario's games at his best it may probably be considered as one of the greatest games 
 of all time and the greatest wii game yet. In the game it took me a little while to figure out 
 the controlls after you get used to the controlls the game is pretty fun the motion sensor controll 
 of the game works fairly good.
  
  
  Sound:
  The games music is very good and and the sound of effects in game are very good as well nintendo 
 has pulled this one off fairly well and no problems with sound.
  
  Graphics:
  
  best Graphics the wii has to offer the best graohics compared to any mario game in genrally one 
 look and you will be amazed this is one of the few games where the graphics are good since developement 
 time.
  
  
  Overall:
  
  The game is good right from the beginning which doesn't happen to often and the game start when 
 bowser comes as soon as you get to the castle it will be taken away then you are off on a journey 
 to collect grand stars and the 120 stars and there are a variety of pretty unique levels like a 
 water level where you have to use the remote to move around the course and there is a ball level 
 which is pretty unique and there is bumble bee mario which the controlls work fairly well for it 
 and add varety in the game this game is highly recommeded and it lives up to its hype but if you 
 want to be safe try and rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schwabdizzle
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2007 6:48 am PT
Review:  From the start of the game I was absolutly hooked. The classic Mario feel, look, and references 
 made me cry tears of joy. Once the game gets going the boards and levels are absolutly flawless. 
 There are 6 planetariums each with 5 galaxys in them plus hidden unlochable galaxies. Each Galaxy 
 is totally different form 1 another, so there is tons of variety. The difficulty level was pretty 
 easy, but that could of been that way cause I'm a platform game master. If your new to Mario, I 
 think the difficulty would be just right. Besides that the only flaws are just a few minor camera 
 glitches but they dont even bother you that much. This game is the best platform game as well as 
 the best Mario game ever Hands down!! Perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skaldicpoet9
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2007 1:51 am PT
Review:  From the first moment you pop in the Super Mario Galaxy disk you know you are in for something 
 special. There is nothing quite as beautiful as playing Mario in a next-gen gaming environment 
 while the orchestra plays on in the background. 
  
  The opening scene is brilliantly executed and fantastic to watch. This game really nods it's head 
 to all of the previous Mario games, most notably Super Mario Bros. 3, believe me you will marvel 
 at your first sight of a airship in 3D.
  
  The level design in this game is phenomenal, definitely the best I have ever seen. In the beginning 
 you think that this is just a fluke, that eventually you'll find a level design that is somehow 
 flawed and lacks the luster of the other level's designs but with each subsequent level you will 
 realize that this is not the case. I have, in fact, limited my play time on SMG so as to savor 
 the levels themselves. Believe me ice skating on a giant ice donut in space with crazy gravity 
 effects is like nothing you have ever played. Jump off of the edge and you'll wind up upside down 
 on the other side, it is simply addictive. One of the funnest thing to do in this game is just 
 to toy around with the different gravity effects and see what happens. 
  
  The controls in this game are excellently implemented and a lot of fun actually. You can shake 
 the Wii-mote to execute spin attacks and a new type of item called "star bits" enables you to stun 
 enemies from a distance by aiming and firing the bits that you have collected at enemies. Collecting 
 the star bits is actually pretty fun and feels like a mini-game within the game itself.
  
  The sound in this game is simply amazing. As I said before there is nothing quite like Mario blasting 
 through outer space while a full orchestra plays in the background. I've actually just popped in 
 the SMG disk just to leave the music playing lol.
  
  For a console that is so supposedly lacking in the graphics department SMG is a marvel to behold. 
 Yeah, the graphics aren't hi-def, but what you do get is hands down the best art direction I have 
 seen in a platformer so far.
  
  Bottom line is that SMG is the best platformer that has and possibly will, ever come out. To miss 
 this game is to miss out on a piece of gaming history. This game will forever redefine what it 
 means to make a platformer game.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3geogo
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  As many have said before, but I will say it again, Mario has been the king of 3D platforming and 
 proves he's still on top with another great release. The story line is still the same, Peach is 
 kidnapped by Bowser, Mario gives chase, collect power stars, yet this time, you go to different 
 galaxies to get the stars. Mario also has new powers as well such as the frost flower and bumble 
 bee outfit. Heck, you can even become a Boo! This game has everything Nintendo fans will love. 
 The game play will have you begging for more so much, that you will revisit planets for the fun 
 of it, trust me, I do it all the time. Translation: The replay value is HIGH. The graphic are some 
 of the best for the Wii, not to mention the sound track isn't half bad either. All in all, Mario 
 succeeds again in drawing us in to another insane adventure that only Mario could get into. I admit 
 that I previously did not plan on getting this game, but after playing it at a game booth in a 
 GameStop, I preordered it immediately. So if you don't have it, get it ASAP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juga88
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is without a doubt an instant classic. From a fully orchestrated soundtrack 
 to smooth gameplay to enticing graphics, Galaxy is by far the best Mario game to hit a console -- ever. 
 The controls are smooth, fluid, and easy with the wiimote and nunchuck, and Mario's moves are limited 
 while still leaving room for creativity and skill to shine. The music is beautiful and themed appropriately. 
 The level design is varying and intricate. The game can be long and challenging, or easy and fun. 
 It applies to all ages and has already been accepted by the gaming community as Mario's comback. 
 Hopefully we can see more games that are of this quality in the future from Nintendo and on the 
 Wii.
  
  10 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CursemarkChris
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  This is about the best game of 2007 . The way it devise gravity and Mario floats and flis though 
 space . The level of design is crazy and I just cant stop playing it. The difficulty of the game 
 is not to hard , but fairly hard not to overwelming. The bosses look pretty cool and fun to look 
 at. Also they allow 2 poeple to play .1 plays Mario and the starbit collecter, and player 2 just 
 plays the starbit collecter so that you can beat the game not just by yourself , but with a friend. 
 So this is why I give this game a 9.5 , because its SO FRICKIN AUSOME !!! GgT gf78 rgrthyu hug 
 hufi yhui yui rhggyu eyue hyru yr yuri gyr y byu by by b yui ygui gyui y yi yi gyi yh bfhaw njfk 
 mnmkc iwo hur huir hurio rhuilr h jhr huri hur nui aioe wjhuhhbuj ire; ret byui487v j80 vrnuji ongjir 
 jgkr hgur hnumlg kyi8 ili 7u6 jur jut uuk i jt jt. ix mg gh kj ehu hgu h h hwre qjig; trw hrej ngjrl 
 nj ln rl nkl rjio nuia nis j os i jis vy bgyu lhbuia hbuiae hufie gyuier huire huiretuiytuiy hu 
 hui ui bhuu hu hu ;ui hap huhui lrhusr uhsr hues byre uohus uhuilhuhu jj huyhu; eyhreuhurehu huieio 
 ynbhuj ihuj gufguhgug jigf hnjf dfjn hjf hjfdi hjdf hnjdf nhjdf ;f; j ;nduj hjl; jkfljfdk ljf kljnkl 
 jjkl/ jkf ljfj kj khjhhg fh df gjh bhgdh bjh gd nfghjgdhas bfhdvbd hghj bhjgdhgdhas bh av h hj 
 ghj bjhjbdj jkdbjdjnbdfbj d bj nfbjigjnbk gjhdgjh gjk jk fgjkjj hffjhfhjf k jkbf dmnjh fnjhfkid, hjremjfrjhujj 
 jkljk kjd ,g hn rf j jitrmig kngljgm, gkjgjgjgjhgjgb jtr hjnjrkldgf ,m j, m ehdf b nkj hn df ui f 
 knb tryu e kj n j ,ui mn tmnre j ,m ln t , yt kn ml hgmb j g,. kj kjnkj!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trentstamc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Super Mario Galaxy all I could think was "wow!" The graphics are damn close 
 to the best I've ever scene on the Nintendo Wii and they set a great example on what it can do. 
 The lighting effects, OH GOD! I love them.. 
  
  The Boss battles are as classic as its predecessors, which is a good thing because you'll encounter 
 many of them, and the dynamite controls make them all the better, Especially in the Bowser battles.
 
  
  The soundtrack will actually engage you and set the mood in pretty much all of the galaxies you 
 encounter. 
  
  As if things couldn't get any better, their are little side galaxies that include mini-games that 
 make great usage of the wii-remotes superior controls. Sunch as tilting the remote to roll a ball 
 Mario is standing on, or going eel surfing....
  
  Overall, Super Mario Galaxies is a great experience that any gamer should not miss out on, go get 
 yours today!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dafeelinggood
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 4:53 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is a platform game with, as you already know, Mario to play with. Like in Super 
 Mario 64, the thing to do is collecting stars. This is fun.
  Don't know why but the game is just almost quite perfectly. Some things could have been better, 
 but overall it's almost perfect.
  
  Gameplay: 9.6
  Great. Collecting stars is just so much fun. Sharp controls, good use of the Wii remote,..., makes 
 it even better. Only bt thing is that it can be a little confusing.
  
  Graphics: 9.5
  
  Beautiful. Very sharp.
  
  Sound: 9.8
  
  Different then Super Mario 64, but you are gonna 
 like it!
  
  Lasting value: 30 hours.
  
  Overall: 9.7 (down to 9.5)
  
  Super Mario 64 was fun, but i think this one is even better! And don't you dare to rent it! Just 
 buy it, there is no risk! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McPwned
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is the much-anticipated continuation to the 3D Mario franchise. It is, in all 
 meanings of the word, fun. It looks fun, sounds fun, and most importantly, plays fun.
  
  The galaxies (levels) themselves are very fun, utilizing various puzzles to let you progress to 
 get the all-important power star. In each galaxy are tens of "planets", or various objects that 
 you hop to and fro. The planets are range from tiny (if you long-jump you practically go into orbit) 
 to huge (but not like Super Mario 64 level huge) . The most entertaining puzzles are the ones that 
 involve changing gravity, but other new puzzle types include: blowing yourself around in a big 
 floating bubble, races on the back of a stingray, et cetera. Another welcome addition is that of 
 varying mushroom types. You have your basic 1-up mushroom, of course, but then you have a star 
 mushroom to increase your total health, a bee mushroom to turn you into a flying bumblebee, and 
 more. We also see the power star, fire flower, and new ice flower join the ranks of Mario's fun 
 power-ups.
  
  Each galaxy (typically) has three main stars, a secret star, and two "trickster comet" stars (each 
 star takes you through a either slightly or very different version of the galaxy) . Trickster comets 
 are random events that occur when a comet is in orbit around a galaxy. When you go a galaxy with 
 a comet in orbit, you go through a special version of the level. For example, if a "daredevil comet" 
 is in orbit, you have to fight the final boss with only one health point. There are four main types 
 of comets, and only one type appears in each galaxy. Now, I did say TWO trickster comet stars originally. 
 That is because after you beat the game the first time, "purple comets" start appearing. These 
 comets require that you go through the level collecting 100 purple coins (think red coins from 
 Super Mario 64, but a lot more of them) . Some galaxies use the entire level and require you to 
 explore every nook and cranny to find all 100 stars, taking all the time you want. Some galaxies 
 put you on a timer and require that you get 100 coins from an area which has more than 100.
  
  However, some galaxies require that you are put on a linearly moving platform with no way to 
 go back if you missed a coin. And, like all trickster comets, if you fail in the slightest you 
 have to start over from the beginning. At this point, I decided that the game can go fornicate 
 itself and I stopped playing. Sorry Nintendo, this is a very unnecessary waste of my time. It's 
 not hard, it's FRUSTRATING. In addition, I found the game to be a little short for my tastes. I 
 guess the purple coins were Nintendo's way of extending gameplay, but they failed. Quelle tragdie.
 
  
  That aside, I would heartily recommend playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy for the Wii
  
  The Good- Amazing Graphics, Awesome controls
  
  The Bad- Games story is to basic for this generation
  
  Gameplay- 9/10 besides the game having 
 the same mario formula it does add new transformations and alot of interesting twist to the mario 
 formula. 
  
  Graphics- 10/10 probly one of the best you will see on the wii at this point in time.
  
  Sound- 
 10/10 with classic mario music and new remixes and several others theres no complaining here on 
 this great soundtrack. 
  
  Storyline- 8/10 The story is very basic, but with the new space travel and lumas and such its still 
 great overall, but its not eye candy.
  
  Extra material and Replay Value 10/10 with all the extra area's and challanges to do, with 100+ 
 stars to collect if you love mario this game will last you a long time.
  Gameplay x3 
  Graphics x2
  Sound x2
  Storyline x2
  Extra's and Reply x1
  
  Overall- 95/100 for 9.5
 
  Honestly I didn't enjoy the game as a real 9.5 would, this games story is rather dull for this 
 generation but theres so much to offer I can't bash the game anymore then that and even if it doesn't 
 catch you as the best game of all time its still a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_152
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  The graphics in this game technically the best you'll currently find on the console and there is 
 no shortage of detail in the indulgent world of Super Mario Galaxy. The level design is brilliant, 
 you'll have the wide, open cosmos around you at most times and the levels all look fun with each 
 keeping its own theme. The game also uses its level design to take a jump back in time, reflecting 
 the sandy beaches of Sunshine or the icy landscape we saw in 64. The game also thankfully manages 
 to keep a stable frame rate at all times. Basically the whole game doesn't quite live up to some 
 of todays super-HD standard but it still looks great and the level design makes up for any technical 
 visual shortcomings.
  
  To explain the game you'll start off in the lobby where you can go into one of the rooms to see 
 a solar system, each solar system is full of lots of different galaxies where there'll be a few 
 different stars to get and getting stars will unlock new galaxies and levels, pretty much your 
 usual setup. The gameplay pretty much embodies fun and the balance of old and new is absolutely 
 perfectly balanced. You'll have your good old-fashioned platforming, collecting all 120 stars, 
 stomping enemies and more classic 3D Mario tasks like your traditional 'weak-point' bosses. But 
 everything now takes place on a number of planets within the levels, they might be a huge planet 
 with a lot of obstacles and jumps to clear before you can move onto the next one or it may be a 
 tiny planet consisting of a single puzzle and this compartmentalisation of the gameplay is great 
 and all planets play at least as good as they look, leaving you in awe of the games brilliant level 
 design. Other news additions include you (or your friend in co-op mode) collecting star bits, small 
 easy-to-get items that let you stun enemies and unlock new galaxies, new power-ups like the Bee 
 Suit and the Ice Flower and each time you play the game you'll start out with just 3 lives meaning 
 that you have a chance in levels (especially as 1Ups are much easier to get) but you can't hold 
 back a whole number of lives at once to make yourself effectively invincible. Another feature of 
 Super Mario Galaxy is special comets that hang around random stages for a bit and allow you to 
 play through specific challenges like speed runs or you'll have to run the entire level with only 
 one life. 
  
  Of course being a Wii game the difficulty slope in this game needs to be just right and it is, 
 most newbies will be able to finish the game but veterans will definitely be challenged if they 
 want to get all 120 stars. The controls are also pretty good, the game goes for the basic as is 
 usually best with the Wii and it comes over well. The most notable problem with normal gameplay 
 is the dreaded dodgy platforming camera. It's been somewhat improved since previous Mario adventures 
 and a first person mode and toggle-able camera positions have also been added but the camera will 
 often not go into first person mode, change angles or centre behind your character when need it 
 to and it can indeed still occasionally get stuck in awkward spots for a second too long.
  
  Galaxy has pretty good sound. Nintendo seem to be keeping up their tradition of no real voice 
 acting but the small sections of speech are kind of nice. You'll also of course be playing with 
 the crisp and quirky classic Mario sound effects as well as a few new ones which manage to fit 
 very well and add to the games rich feel. The games sound really picks up in its music though and 
 features excellent remakes of the timeless old Mario tunes and new, quite atmospheric music including 
 a full orchestral piece as its theme. The developers really aim to leave you with an epic feeling 
 and that effect is achieved.
  
  There's a little more story here than your average Mario game but all the real stuff takes place 
 in an area called the library where you can see different sections of the storybook which you'll 
 unlock as you make your way through the game. Apart from the storybook it'll just be your basic 
 'Peach kidnapped by Bowser' scenario. The game benefits from having the story separated out like 
 this and the storybook may provide some interest for older players but kids will love it.
  
  All in all Super Mario Galaxy is not just one of the greatest Wii games, it is some of Miyamoto 
 and Nintendo's finest work and it's a game that's virtually perfect for anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Micro-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is without a doubt the best game for the Wii to date. The game has not only 
 incredible gameplay, but is also one of the longest lasting games I've played for quite some time. 
 The game itself begins just as every other Mario game. Princess Peach gets taken away by bowser. 
 Mario has to complete objectives in galaxy after galaxy of fun in order to reach the final stage 
 where you rescue the Princess from Mario's long-time enemy, Bowser. The game itself is overall 
 in the top 5 of the greatest games I've ever played. 
  
  The gameplay is just incredible. It plays out very smooth and has the ability to be a fun challenge 
 for adults and children. The controls are just plain perfect. They provide great use of the Wii's 
 sensor remote and classic Mario control with the joystick, A, and B buttons. As you continue through 
 the game you'll notice yourself gaining star bits by pointing the Wii remote at them on the screen. 
 You'll need those in certain situations to hit enemies from a distance or getting new items and 
 power-ups. 
  
  The most confident statement I can say about this game is "Super Mario Galaxy has the most impressive 
 graphics on the Nintendo Wii". The game is just an overall smooth texture with some amazing level 
 designs. All of the characters in the game are exactly what you'd want from a 3D cartoon game. 
 The game excels in graphics.
  
  The sound of the game is great. The actions of Mario and enemy attacks are completely clear and 
 sound especially good on enhanced sound systems. You'll notice the sound of molten lava or hot 
 fire while in heated areas or a type of "congratulations" music when you obtain a star. The games 
 sounds are very well done.
  
  The value of Mario games is always the base for them. Not only does the game take quite a bit of 
 time to finish, but you'll find yourself back-tracking because of the need for stars in order to 
 unlock new areas. You'll be able to get quite a bit of time out of this. 
  
  Saying Super Mario Galaxy is an impressive game would be an understatement. It's the game I recommend 
 getting for any Wii. I've asked quite a lot of people of their thoughts on it and have heard nothing 
 negative. The game is fun for all ages and is without a doubt the best Wii game currently. I strongly 
 recommend you get Super Mario Galaxy if you own a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alidallal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 6:05 am PT
Review:  The first thing that shocked me is the fact that "Super Mario Galaxy" was developed by the team 
 responsible for "Donkey Kong Jungle Beat", and Galaxy was their second project and since Jungle 
 Beat wasn't that good I presumed Galaxy will be an average Mario game, but as expected from Shigeru 
 Miyamoto Nintendo raised the standards high by beating their best Mario game "Super Mario 64".
 
  
  Another thing that blown me away was the surprisingly amazing graphics that everyone claimed the 
 Nintendo Wii was unable to produce, the graphics that other Wii developers should look up to and 
 try to surpass. Beside the good graphics Nintendo knew how to balance the gameplay experience and 
 make it accessible by both hardcore and casual gamers where causal gamers will enjoy a great experience 
 by collecting 60 stars and beating the game, while the hardcore gamers can expand on that by collecting 
 all 120 stars without dealing with the difficulty of Sunshine or Mario 64, but still Galaxy will 
 provide them with good challenges. However, the thing that bothered me was some easy and repetitive 
 boss encounters, which I wished were a little bit harder or different, but the brilliant game design 
 and the innovative gravity system combined with sharp controls will easily make you forget about 
 such drawback.
  
  Regarding game sound you will notice that Nintendo changed their approach a little bit by providing 
 orchestrated scores composed by Nintendo's in-house orchestrator "Mahito Yokota" with the cooperation 
 of the Legendary Nintendo composer "Koji Kondo" and played by the Nintendo orchestra, the music 
 really merged nicely with the vast world of Mario Galaxy, but that didn't stop Nintendo from providing 
 us with remixes of the old memorable Mario tunes and new tunes as well. One of the techniques I 
 liked was synchronizing a music tune tempo with the speed of a ball that Mario rolls around some 
 stages. In this article  you will find 
 more materials about the making of Galaxy's music.
  
  With all these elements combined Nintendo created a Mario game that will be difficult to surpass 
 in the coming installments and a game that will remain in players hearts' for a long period of 
 time. This game really sucked me in until I collected all 120 stars and gave me a great gaming 
 experience that I haven't felt for a long time.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: raza3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 5:54 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  Mario running around a spherical planetoidMost of the game is set in outer space along a vast chain 
 of planetoids and other space matter, though many levels consist of larger areas to explore such 
 as the Beach Bowl Galaxy and Honeyhive Galaxy.
  
  Mario is capable of jumping or launching from planet to planet in order to gather items and defeat 
 enemies. Each planet has a gravitational force, which allows the player to circumnavigate rounded 
 objects, walking sideways or upside down. Mario can transform into Fire Mario, Ice Mario, Bee Mario, 
 Boo Mario, Spring Mario, Flying Mario, and Rainbow Mario. Like previous 3D Mario games, the main 
 objective is to collect Stars, which are awarded by completing tasks or defeating enemies. The 
 game's central hub is the Comet Observatory, which is divided into six themed areas: the Terrace, 
 Fountain, Kitchen, Bedroom, Engine Room, and Garden. Distributed among these six worlds are 42 
 galaxies, or levels, with 1 to 7 stars each. [1] Obtaining these stars allows the player to unlock 
 more in each themed galaxy. There are a total of 121 stars in the game, with the 121st star only 
 available after collecting the first 120 with both Mario and then Luigi.
  
  
  Mario traveling from one planetoid to anotherMario has a range of jumping abilities, including 
 his trademark triple jump and wall kick and moves that were absent in Super Mario Sunshine, like 
 the long jump. He can also perform flips by immediately turning and jumping, and do a ground-pound 
 move to smash breakable objects or enemies below. Mario's melee move is a spin, executed by shaking 
 the Wii Remote or Nunchuk, which allows him to attack enemies, break objects, and activate Launch 
 Stars and Sling Stars that shoot him across the galaxy. The Wii Remote's motion sensing is used 
 to 'steer' a manta ray and balance on a rolling ball. The pointer allows the player to direct wind 
 when riding a bubble, activate Pull Stars that pull Mario to planets, and collect, aim, and fire 
 Star Bits.
  
  As in every 3D Mario game, Mario's health consists of a power meter, which can be restored by collecting 
 coins, but when it reaches zero, Mario loses a life. Mario begins with a power meter made of three 
 sections, but when players collect a Life Mushroom, his meter is expanded by three to a maximum 
 of six health bars. However, this power-up is not permanent, since causing it to drop to 3 will 
 revert the maximum to 3. Mario also has a second and separate health meter that designates his 
 air supply when swimming underwater; if it is empty Mario will quickly lose parts of his power 
 meter. The bottomless pits featured in previous Mario games that cost Mario a life when fallen 
 in have been replaced by black holes, which are stationed beneath the surfaces of certain planets 
 and spread throughout space (though sometimes when Mario is outside of the gravitational pull of 
 a planet, he will fall in traditional fashion) .
  
  
  [edit] Environmental mechanics
  New gameplay mechanics include Gravity Arrows, which make Mario gravitate in the direction that 
 these arrows point, and Star Bits, which can be grabbed simply by moving the cursor over them. [2] 
 For every 50 Star Bits he collects, Mario will be rewarded with an extra life, similar to how collecting 
 100 coins resulted in an extra life in the other games. He can fire Star Bits to stun enemies or 
 spawn coins from some places or objects like sprouts, which bloom when struck with Star Bits. The 
 Star Bits, which resemble the Japanese confection konpeito, can be used to feed Hungry Lumas that 
 appear within the observatory and galaxies. [3] When they are full, they form a new planet or galaxy 
 in which an additional star can be found.
  
  There are five types of Prankster Comets that appear randomly (The Speedy, Daredevil, Cosmic, Fast-Foe, 
 and Purple comets) ; when one of them comes into contact with a level, a special challenge is initiated 
 that leads to a Power Star. [4]
  
  
  Mario in the Bee Suit, a new power-up for the game. Super Mario Galaxy features the most power-ups 
 and transformations of any 3D Mario game to date. [5] Mario has the ability to transform into a 
 bee and a Boo using different suits. The Boo suit makes him invisible and the bee suit allows him 
 to fly and hover for a short time. Flowers are also present; fire flowers work the same as in 2-D 
 games (apart from a 20-second time limit) and ice flowers let Mario freeze water and lava to walk 
 or skate on it. The Spring Shroom lets Mario jump very high. The Red Star allows Mario to fly around 
 freely for a short time, similar to the Wing Cap from Super Mario 64. The Rainbow Star makes you 
 invincible.
  
  The game offers six save files and the option of using Miis from the Mii Channel. [6]
  
  
 
  [edit] Multiplayer
  Super Mario Galaxy has a co-operative two-player option called "Co-Star Mode", in which one player 
 controls Mario and a star pointer while the other controls another pointer on-screen to gather 
 Star Bits and shoot them at enemies. [7] While the first player can normally do this except during 
 certain events, the second player can shoot stars without restriction. The second player also is 
 more efficient in manipulating the environment, such as halting object and enemy movement. Some 
 obstacles, when halted by the second player, are automatically destroyed. Additionally, the height 
 of Mario's jump can be increased if the first and second player press the A button at the same 
 moment. Because of these added abilities, especially the ability to stun enemies, Co-Star Mode 
 is less difficult than single-player mode
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Gamer11
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  When I first picked up Super Mario Galaxy (SMG for short) , I was ready to see what all the fuss 
 was about. I had read the reviews, and everyone said this was a "must play game." It wasn't until 
 I had popped in the disc and played the first level that I realized... they were right.
  
  From the moment I stepped onto the first planet and walked completely around it, I was hooked. 
 Its something that you read about and think "yeah, that might be cool" until you actually experience 
 it. I know that this game isnt all about walking around a planet, but it just gives a really cool 
 first impression. From the get go, Mario looks, sounds, and controls almost identically to Mario 
 64 (and thats a good thing) . You can still perform the double and triple jumps, complete with "hoo, 
 hah, waaah ha!" However, new to this game is the spin move. By shaking the Wiimote, Mario performs 
 a spin similar to Crash Bandicoot. This is used for practically everything in the game... attacking, 
 launching from stars, breaking objects, throwing objects, etc. While shaking the remote to do many, 
 many things does get kind of old, you cant help but appreciate how easy and fluid it is. You can 
 really tell that a lot of time and effort was put into making this game shine.
  
  And its not just in the gameplay either. Although there is STILL no voice acting (aside from Mario 
 and a line or two from Peach) the overall feel of the game is spot on. The levels NEVER feel repetitive, 
 wether your creeping though a haunted house or flying through space on sticky cobwebs (dont ask) 
 it always feels fresh and new.
  
  The only complaint I have with this game, and I mean the only one, is that the camera AT TIMES 
 can be in the wrong place at the wrong time. Now, granted this has happened to me about three times 
 during my playthrough, but sometimes it has caused a death or two. You have to walk to a certain 
 point to get the camera to right itself. Like I said, VERY infrequent, but a complaint nonetheless.
 
  
  So... to rent or buy? Well, if you want to play one of the instant classics from our generation, 
 buy. Immediately. However, if you just want to see what its all about, then by all means rent it. 
 With a week and change you may even be able to beat it (if you play ALOT) . However I recommend 
 you buy this game because if you're like me you just wont be able to get enough of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeGio7
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  I've alway's loved Mario snice I first started playing video game's. This one look's alittle between 
 Super Mario 64 and Super Mario Sunshine like alittle in gameplay, and grapic's. I seen the video 
 for it and it looked terrific, it's neat how you can do all that new stuff in it and going to all 
 those galaxy's that's cool. I really think that this is one of the greatest game's to come out this 
 year. Can't wait to get this and neither can my little sister too, and it's kick in this as well 
 I bet that ten year's from now people will still be playing this masterpiece. It's rocking the Wii!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunnar136
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Mario Galaxies is by far the best game to come to Wii yet though I wouldnt quite call it perfect. 
 While it is a step forward for the Mario Genre it also has much that can be worked on.
  One of the biggest problems i had with the game was the size of the levels. One thing I loved about 
 Mario 64 was the huge levels with tons of stars that took exploring most of the level to find. 
 Even Mario Sunshine with its quest to discover all the red coins. Where is the star for 100 gold 
 coins too? It seems coins are practically worthless as I still can't find any reason to have a 
 high score
  It appears that coins have been traded for starbits which are so numerous they are practically 
 useless. U need so few of them to unlock new galaxies and buying extra lives isn't all to helpful 
 as you can pretty much get as many as you need and they reset every time you do. The game overall 
 seems too easy with the exception of a few bosses. Having only three health bars i feel also made 
 the game a bit too easy as did having shorter levels.
  Another thing that anoyed me was while the levels were short also when you chose between stars 
 much of the level would thus be cut off to you. Everything seemed often times too linear and straightforward 
 and i hoped for a bit more variety. The suits were interesting but sometimes difficult to use.
 
  Over all the mario world just didnt seem as apealing as it had in the past oftentimes feeling 
 flat (exactly not what i expected) and straightforward repetetive. There is deffinitly room for 
 improvement and some different level designs might of helped that. Larger worlds rather than small 
 planets might have made the game feel more emense and engrossing.
  I guess i cant be to complaintive as it is still the best mario game out there for the wii yet 
 what is with that stupid star that lives in mario's stomach and lets him spin around. Bowser bosses 
 are all repetetive and require the same mechanics to beat (final boss is just 3 different stages 
 of the first few bosses) so i would have enjoyed more variety. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garrison_Ford
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  *** SUPER MARIO GALAXY ***
  
  THE GOOD 
  -Amazing musical score
  -Solid controls
  -2 Player mode is a nice touch
  -Excellent level design
  -Good variety of cool suits which 
 give Mario unique abilities
  -Good graphics
  -Comet modes and secret levels add a nice challenge
  
  THE BAD
  -Story is lame
  -Camera 
 angles are flat out bad on some levels
  
  OVERVIEW
  Super Mario Galaxy is an awesome 3D platformer for the Nintendo Wii. Mario is at it again in his 
 quest to save the Princess from Bowser but this time he has to travel to different galaxies. From 
 the start of the game you play as Mario on his way to the Mushroom Kingdom for a comet festival 
 which happens every 100 years. Just when you think that things are calm and peaceful Bowser shows 
 up in his airships (just like Mario 3) and captures the Princess and takes her to a far away galaxy. 
 Mario then finds help with Rosalina and her Luma (or star) friends. Rosalina tells Mario that they 
 can help find the princess by using their observatory but there is one problem, they need stars 
 to give the engines power. So, Mario uses the observatory to pin point other galaxies that have 
 stars and gets launched to them. Again, just like some of the other Mario games, there are a total 
 of 120 Stars to find. As you move along in the game you find out more about Rosalina and the Lumas. 
 The characters are cool in Mario Galaxy. I mean who doesn't like Mario! But, the story is not this 
 game's strong suit.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The fun gameplay and optional 2 player mode is where this game really excels. First, the controls 
 are easy to use. You use the Wii Remote and Nunchuk for this game and there is button pressing, 
 pointing, and motion control incorporated. You have many of the same types of jumps from the other 
 3D Mario games like the ground pound and wall jump but one of the differences is that you use a 
 swinging motion to attack enemies with a spin move. Along with collecting coins, which also refuels 
 your health, there are "Star Bits" that you can collect by either running into them or using the 
 pointer to collect them on the screen. This makes things a lot easier. Collecting enough Star Bits 
 gives you an extra life and you can also point at the screen and shoot Star Bits at the enemy. 
 Later in the game you will come across some special levels that have you controlling Mario on top 
 of a ball, for example. In this special level you use the Wii Remote like a joystick. Holding it 
 upright to start and pushing it forward and backward to move. In the 2 player mode, one person 
 controls Mario and the other player controls a pointer which can gather Star Bits, stun enemies, 
 and protect Mario. I have found that a hardcore gamer and a casual gamer make a great pair for 
 this game. Aside from the controls, Super Mario Galaxy has excellent level designs that will test 
 Mario on land, water and even flying. In one galaxy you might find yourself navigating around and 
 active volcano and in another you might have to deep sea dive. The makers of this game also had 
 fun with gravity in that sometimes you will be on a flat plain and other times you are running 
 around a small planet. One thing to note about this game is that the camera angles can get kind 
 of funky and can cause frustration with navigating Mario sometimes. Another really cool feature 
 about Super Mario Galaxy is that it brings back some of the greatness from Super Mario Bros. 3 
 in the power-up suits like Fire Mario, Spring Mario, Bee Mario, etc... Aside from obtaining the 
 normal stars there is the option to find stars in the comet mode. The comet mode happens, at random, 
 when a comet comes to a level previously played and alters the game mode for Mario. One of the 
 game modes is the Daredevil mode which gives Mario 1 health. Then with 1 health, Mario needs to 
 beat a certain part of the level, like defeat the boss. This gives the game a rewarding challenge.
 
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics for Super Mario Galaxy are some of the best that the Wii has to offer right now. Each 
 level is crisp and clear which enhances the game.
  
  SOUND
  The musical score is truly spectacular and fits each level. Not only is there new music but they 
 have brought back some of the great music from Super Mario Bros. 3.
  
  CONCLUSION
  Super Mario Galaxy is a game that you will want to play over and over again. Its fun by yourself 
 and with a friend. Mario once again shows his greatness and we will continue to see lots of him 
 in years to come.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: slimdave21
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  Mario is Back and better then ever in a fresh adventure.
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  
  The Level design is what really makes this game stand out. Running full-spectrum around miniature 
 worlds and in-animate objects in different galaxies is what makes this game insane. I haven't had 
 this much fun with 
  a game since I played beat Metroid Prime 3.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  
  Very clean graphics and excellent camera angles make it flawless. The gaming mechanics will inspire 
 the next-generation of games.
  
  
  Music 10/10
  
  Mix of Old-School Mario tracks with new epic music there isn't much more you can ask for in this 
 section. The music is actually one of my favourite parts of the game because it creates atmosphere 
 and you can tell there was alot of work put into it. Some of the tracks fell like your watching 
 an epic movie like Princess Mononoke, or some other artistic movies.
  
  Controls 10/10
  
  Classic Mario 64 Controls make it easy to use, as well as adding in the Wii Motion sensing 
 controls ie.) you shake the Wii-mote to do a spin attack and perform many various actions. You 
 also point the Wiimote at the screen to collect 'Starbits' which you can either shoot or collect 
 to use later.
  
  OVERALL 10/10 This is an awesome flawless game!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Huntar12345
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 4:16 am PT
Review:  This game is Fantastic i can go on and on about how good it is for hours its that good. but of 
 course in every good game there is something thats not right. tho some irritating things in the 
 game this is still the best mario game i've ever played.
  
  Good:
  Really great graphics for a Wii game
  good music
  Great controls
  outstanding level design
 
  this takes a while to complete
  
  Bad:
  Sometimes to easy
  Spring mario is hard to control
  
  as you can see there isnt many bad things in this game. 
 I give it 9.5 because its the best Wii game yet and if you haven't got this yet.. well buy it.. 
 buy it NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 8:49 pm PT
Review:  C'mon what reason does there have to be to buy Super Mario Galaxy, it's a freakin Mario game for 
 the love of monkeys, and it's a platformer Mario game, we haven't seen one of those since Super 
 Mario Sunshine which was released back in 2002. With 50 bucks in my pocket, I walked my butt to 
 the nearest place that sold videogames (BEST BUY) and bought myself a copy. I was definitely in 
 for one AWESOME adventure! Here's my review.
  
  (4 out of 5) Story: Honestly Mario games use the same plot every single flippin time and Mario 
 Galaxy is no different. Here is a quick dialogue I made up to sum up the plot for Super Mario Galaxy
 
  
  Mario: "Itsa me Mario, I'ma gonna to sit here on ma bum and waita for Princess Peacha to get kidnapped 
 by Bowsera"
  Peach: "Mariooooo help me, I'm too pretty and pink that I can't save myself, although I was able 
 to save you and your brother from Bowser in Super Princess Peach on the Nintendo DS, help"
  Bowser: "Mrawahaha I Bower will take Princess Peach (although I know I will get my butt kicked 
 in the end of the game) because I can't find any other Princess who will not fight back when I 
 kidnap them"
  
  And it goes on like that, well not really but you get the point. Peach gets taken at the Star 
 Festival by Bowser, his plan is to create a new galaxy with Peach as his Queen, Mario goes after 
 Bowser but gets his butt sent into space. He meets a race of cute little star people named Lumas 
 and their moma named Rosalina (which by the way is more HOTTER then Peach, maybe Mario should get 
 a new girlfriend hehehe, anyway.) With the help of the Lumas and the insanely beautiful Rosalina 
 Mario must venture into galaxies, collect stars, bash a few Goombas while he's at it, and rescue 
 his beloved Peach. Sure the story has been done before but Super Mario Galaxy improves on it, especially 
 since Princess Rosalina was added. I'm telling you Mario + Rosalina = one happy plumber, just saying 
 you know. 
  
  (5 out of 5) Gameplay: Where to start well I guess I can say that Super Mario Galaxy is one of 
 the most funnest games of all time, is funnest even a word, probably not. The gravity defying levels, 
 the easy and responsive gameplay, and its all mixed up perfectly. The idea that each planet has 
 its own gravity is unique and innovative, just when you think you are falling off a planet you 
 end up landing on the bottom side of the planet, now how amazing is that. The platforming is done 
 extremely well, with the number of suits such as the Bee Suit, and the number of power ups such 
 as the Ice Power up, you never find yourself experiencing the same thing over and over again. It 
 gets even better, get this, NO LOADING TIMES WHATSOEVER! Well maybe a few half second loading times, 
 but I don't count those. I can easily say that Super Mario Galaxy sets the bar for future adventure/platforming 
 games to come. 
  
  (5 out of 5) Graphics: Super Mario Galaxy may not have graphics like Assassin's Creed, Mass Effect, 
 and Bioshock, but it doesn't need to. The graphics in the game are bright, colorful, and visually 
 appealing to the eyes. The fur on all the hairy little buggers in the game such as the bees have 
 such nice soft firm texture that it stands out. The level design is superb; each planet is cleverly 
 designed from top to bottom. If it were possible I would attach more eyes to my head just to see 
 more of the amazing graphics. What Super Mario Galaxy lacks in hardcore 3D graphics, it makes up 
 with its dazzling colorful graphics. Super Mario Galaxy is one of those games that show graphics 
 isn't the only this that makes a next-gen game.
  
  (5 out of 5) Sound: The music. itwas. sobeautiful. Each song in the entire game was nicely 
 orchestrated, the way the violins sounded, the way the flutes let out that stunning melody. I have 
 never heard such a wonderful game soundtrack in forever. The songs were catchy and featured some 
 old school songs like the original Super Mario Bros. Song, remixed of course and the underground 
 pipe song. The sound effects were pretty impressive too, hearing the screeching sound of a crying 
 Dino Piranha made you jump with joy. Super Mario Galaxy's music made my ears cry with happiness, 
 well not literally duh.
  
  Overall: If Super Mario Galaxy had a better story this game would be a perfect ten. The gameplay, 
 graphics, sound, everything in the game was absolutely AWESOME! If you own a Wii do yourself a 
 favor and buy this game, sell your dog, sell you socks, sell your parents, just get Super Mario 
 Galaxy. If it were legal I would marry the game, hahaha just kidding. although.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dslyderink
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  .... this game rocks! How can a game so simplistic and childish to look at be so damn good for adults! 
 I dunno - it just is!
  
  I won't repeat what everyone else says, let's just say I'm a dedicated PC gamer and always will 
 be, but thanks to SMG I have an addictive side-hobby (to my main hobby) that gives me great hope 
 for my little Wii that was hardly touched before this game came out.
  
  Not only do I get a kick out of playing it, my lil girl prefers watching me play this to watching 
 her usual animated 3d movies & cartoons! Too cool.
  
  9.5/10
  
  ps - I've never given a game 10/10, probably never will, that way I can always hope perfection 
 is just around the corner, but this is oh so close!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crankypinoy
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Mario Galaxy is the best Mario game ever made. The graphics are the best I have seen on the Wii 
 and the controls are perfect. This is a very long game so it will take hours for you to beat it. 
 The story is awesome and the boss fights are one of the best I have seen in a while. What stands 
 out the most though is the incredible level design. I love how every galaxy has a theme so it keeps 
 you excited of what the next galaxy is going to be like. I recommend every Wii owner to get this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toy11toy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario galaxy is an amazing game for many reasons for example the Wii is not a graphics pushing 
 HD machine but the shine and deep color of the game makes it a joy to look at. the game play is 
 also great because it starts of with the ease in the beginning but gets gradually harder for more 
 advanced players. in other words its amazing and you should buy a wii for this game so thats why 
 i'm giving super Mario galaxy gets a 9.5 and the rest of these words will be so i could get the 
 100 word min bla bla bla bla ziggibogedooo  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  I can still remember being 5 years old and opening the best christmas gift... ever! NES system with 
 Super Mario Bros.... oh what an x-mas that was. Over the years Mario has shined, was always the 
 foundation of platformering at its finest... I was never a big fan of Mario 64 or Mario Sunshine... but 
 Galaxy looked as though it has something special and memorable to offer... and it does. The level 
 design of this game is near perfection, offering tons of interesting ideas and wacko concepts. 
 The game really does take advantage of gravity... and its awesome fun! A lot of characters and little 
 details return from classic mario titles.... giving a reason for longtime mario fanatics to smile 
 or giggle at the marvel. The visuals are incredible, as are the cut-scenes and i must admitt bowser 
 looks GREAT! Although there are some minor things that keep it from a perfect score, its still 
 the best 3D Mario title avaliable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: St_muscat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 1:00 am PT
Review:  Let me just say when I first saw this game I thought meh that whole gravity seems like it will 
 get old fast and wont really do anything to change the game and in the end Galaxy will probably 
 end up being another Sunshine. But luckily I was wrong and not only did it out perform my expectations 
 I think out performed almost every ones and it become the unofficial savor of Platforming genre. 
 As I haven't played a wonderful platformer since Conker's bad fur day on the N64. Now before fanboy's 
 attack me I don't count R&C as it's too much of an action game to be a 'real' platformer to me, 
 instead I see it as a hybrid, anyway on with the review.
  
  As I said this is the savor for the Platforming genre because this once dying genre has been brought 
 back to life via the wonders of its fantastic physics and wonderful yet unique design. At first 
 this game will seen very strange and not right but after an hour or so you will feel right at home 
 with it and easily become stumping goomba's like there's no tomorrow. Mario Galaxy has by far the 
 best soundtrack I have heard in a Wii game and if you listen carefully there is a short song that 
 you first heard in the LOZ: TP when you meet Lila in the bar. Mario's controls are top notch and 
 feel great and nothings better than tight controls. Also the Graphics, while there no 360 or PS3 
 game they do look great, but I wouldn't be surprised if they could have been done on the original 
 Xbox.
  
  The difficulty is good and bad, at one point it can be too easy, but then they have some really 
 hard stars that could take upwards of a dozen tries, but as a overall difficulty it's easy enough 
 to do most stars on your first shot but then at least they tried to make a bit harder as you only 
 have 3 health instead of 8. Overall the game should last you well over 25 hours if you want to 
 collect every star and about 10-12 hours if you want to just get 60 stars and beat Bowser for the 
 final time. Overall Super Mario Galaxy is one of the best Mario games to date, even if may be more 
 restricted to a set path (linear) than the other 3D Mario's as Galaxy's progression is done by 
 moving from small planet to planet instead of the open world design the others used. Although I 
 see this as a plus as it feels more like a 2D Mario game than the other did, with it's from point 
 A to B design. This also eliminates the factor of not knowing where to go to find the next star, 
 although that was never really all that hard to begin with. 
  
  So if you haven't already go out and buy this game, you owe it to yourself not to miss out on possibly 
 the best game 2007 and one of the best games of this generation and most likely the best Platformer 
 game till the next Mario in 5 or so years. So what are you doing reading this review, buy it now 
 and if you already have go but it, yeah it's that good.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariamunchkin
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2007 12:23 am PT
Review:  I honestly did not expect great things from Suer Mario Galaxy. It looked pretty, it looked like 
 it was probably fun, but the last Super Mario title, Super Mario Sunshine, was such a letdown after 
 Super Mario 64 that I thought to myself, "Well Galaxy will probably be better, but it won't be 
 great." 
  
  Boy was I wrong! Super Mario Galaxy is proving to be one of my favorite Wii games I have played 
 yet. As far as our plucky little plumber is concerned, this is by far his best game yet. Super 
 Paper Mario, for me, comes in a close second, but Super Mario Galaxy surpasses my expectations 
 in so many ways.
  
  The graphics, first of all, are really quite good for the Wii. Bright and fun, the lighting and 
 special effects are really well done. The worlds are interesting and creative. 
  
  The control system is in the main, quite simple. You move using the nunchuck, jump with A and use 
 B to fire star bits, which you can collect by simply pointing at the screen. Coin collection is 
 still around, but in the main you collect the star bits. Coins are still useful to keep your health 
 up. And besides the ever popular smushing of Goombas by jumping on their heads, you can now do 
 a spin attack by shaking the remote, knock them over, then run into them to dispose of them. 
 
  
  Where that differs is in the special galaxies - there are the main galaxies, which generally have 
 about 3 levels each, but then there are other galaxies which are basically minigames - races and 
 such that have special control systems. In one you have to race on a sting ray by holding the remote 
 completely straight and flat, and turning your wrist to turn side to side, another you're rolling 
 on a giant ball, and have to tilt the remote to move, and hold it straight up to stop. They sound 
 easy, but it's actually a lot harder than it sounds, and immensely fun to try (I wasted at least 
 six lives trying to get the hang of ray surfing!)
  
  Mario also has the ability to gain special abilities with certain suits - the bee suit lets him 
 fly for a period of time in the Honey Hive Galaxy. And there are others that I haven't gotten to 
 yet, but I'm looking forward to.
  
  And while the levels are relatively simple, there can be no doubt that they're incredibly fun. 
 I enjoyed Super Mario 64 and Super Mario Sunshine but after a while even though the levels were 
 all very different in appearance, they were similar in activity - so far Galaxy has kept my interest, 
 and every now and then they draw you back into the storyline to keep you interested. The new characters 
 - the Lumas and Rosalina - are a welcome addition to the Mario franchise.
  
  Overall, Super Mario Galaxy is a must play for everyone who owns a Wii, and if you claim to be 
 a fan of our little red-capped friend at all, it's a must-own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00KevinMZ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 9:52 pm PT
Review:  (Warning this review contains spoilers!) Before I even played Super Mario Galaxy, I had already 
 decided in my mind that I was going to love it. I loved Mario 64 and Sunshine, and I had already 
 seen some very positive reviews from various gaming sites, assuring me I would love it. However 
 my very first time playing I was not impressed. I was a little overwhelmed with all the new mechanics 
 I was learning like pointing at the screen to pick up star bits, and learning about the launch 
 stars, and to make matters worse the very first real galaxy I played (The Good Egg Galaxy) , was 
 not the most fun of Galaxies. Thankfully, my worries about the game soon faded away as I got into 
 the game and into some of the deeper levels, and became more comfortable with the mechanics. Essentially 
 the level system works like this: There is the main hub which contains each observatory in the 
 game, and within each observatory you can gain access to 4 levels, and one Bowser or Bowser Jr. 
 level (except the Garden, which is a hidden observatory which contains no boss level) . Within the 
 4 levels, early in the game it is split between 2 small 1 star galaxies, and 2 bigger more platform 
 type galaxies, but later it becomes 3 to 1 in favor of the platform galaxies. In the platform galaxies, 
 the stars follow a general pattern, there are 3 stars in which the level directs you to where you 
 need to go based off of launch stars basically. After those there is 1 hidden star within that 
 you need to find yourself, 1 prankster comet (There are a couple of those that appear randomly 
 in each level that slightly alter the level) , and 1 purple coin comet in which you search for 100 
 coins. Except the occasional extra hidden star, and bonus galaxies outside of the observatories, 
 that is essentially how the game is laid out. Once I got into the rhythm of the game I felt very 
 comfortable with how the system works and I began to collect stars at a very pleasing pace. 
  
  Now that I've got that out of the way... What I liked about the game:
  -First and foremost 
 the graphics are stunning from an artistic and technical aspect. Everything is very aesthetically 
 pleasing while running at a consistent smooth frame rate the entire game.
  -The soundtrack is fully orchestrated and sounds excellent. While I liked some of the tunes in 
 the background a little more than others, everything was at the very least pleasant background 
 noise. Everything and everybody sounds exactly how you would expect it to, and what was the best 
 was hearing the classic Bowser level theme from Mario 64 appear in a couple levels
  -As always, Mario and Luigi both control very smoothly
  -Lots of replay value given to beat the 
 game completely, there are 242 stars to be taken care of, and there is nothing stopping you from 
 replaying your favorite stars more than once
  -The level designs are excellent. There had to have been around 40 different galaxies in the game, 
 and each one felt unique. Maybe one was off the mark in terms of being totally awesome, but the 
 developers did a great job of keeping the game feeling fresh in every level.
  -The game is generous in terms of where they start you off after you die, so it's not that frustrating 
 to die
  -It's a Mario game, granted it could have been anybody on that screen and I would have loved the 
 game, but it adds a little bit of nostalgia factor to be playing as Mario
  
  Now, I hate to nitpick, but the game isn't quite perfect, and here's what could be a tad better:
 
  -While completely beating the game is certainly a major time commitment, (I'd say around 30 hours) , 
 it was not all that challenging in terms of difficulty level. Since the level tends to direct you 
 right where you need to go, most of the stars can be acquired within 5 minutes of entering the 
 level, also there was not a challenging boss in the game (granted a daredevil comet, which forces 
 you to fight without getting hurt once makes it a little harder, but even then it was no problem) . 
 There were definitely around 10-15 stars that I will admit took me a long time to find or get, 
 but as a whole it was not as hard I would have liked. (I will say though for a really young gamer 
 it would be just right, just for me it was a little easy)
  -There's not enough reward. When I got 120 stars with Mario I was really satisfied with myself, 
 and I was hoping for a Yoshi on the roof like in 64, but instead it said I unlocked Luigi. At first 
 I was like awesome, but then playing through with Luigi was virtually identical as with Mario. 
 When I got 120 Luigi I thought for sure I was going to get my reward now, and I unlocked the Grand 
 Finale galaxy. Sounds epic right? Well it turns out it's just a boring linear collect 100 purple 
 coins and collect the star. I was a little disappointed to say the least (It was the easiest star 
 in the game)
  -The automatic camera can be a little problematic at times. While 95% of the time the camera does 
 a great job of being where it needs to be, that 5% is still really annoying, mainly cause I was 
 blindsided by some enemies which killed me and it was frustrated. The game does offer limited manual 
 control, but it is not enough to make up for the shortcomings in those areas
  -The game over feature serves no purpose other than to annoy, since all it does is make you start 
 over from the hub world, it's just inconvenient
  -Sometimes if you have like 30 lives when you quit playing, when you resume you mysteriously only 
 have 4, I don't know why, it just happens
  
  Ok, I know it seems like i said a lot of negatives, but don't let that fool you. I really dug deep 
 and played a lot to come up with that, and believe me it will not be a big factor when it comes 
 to enjoyment. Super Mario Galaxy is a fantastic game simply because you have so much fun playing 
 it. While I would not say it's the best platformer of all time (I'm a little partial to Zelda and 
 Metroid games) , it is certainly the best Mario game to date, and I guarantee it will not disappoint. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_kewl_d00d
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome! Anybody who has a Wii must buy this game! Most of the stars are pretty easy 
 to get but there are some really challenging ones. The gameplay is great, the graphics are stunning, 
 the gravity system is extremely fun, the controls are simple, the soundtrack fits the setting perfectly, 
 the story and the fact that it's in space already makes this game awesome. The only downside is 
 that the story is almost nonexistent, but that is easily made up by everything else. Once again, 
 this is a must buy for anybody who has a Wii, or would be a perfect gift. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_PREZIDENT
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  To put it plain & simple, I'm really enjoying this game and it deserves a good score.
  
  Graphics: Are truly amazing, so colorful, and no frame rate drop, one of the best. And this is 
 coming from me, who is sold on HD gaming for the Xbox360 and PS3.
  
  Sounds: even though there is no vast amount of voice acting, the game it self is bought to life 
 with the vast amount of sound effects and music that the game offers. And there is a few dialogue 
 that it offers. The game itself keeps to it roots from the N64 to the NES.
  
  Gameplay: Again coming from a person who is not used to the Wii-mote, the game itself is easy to 
 learn and the learning curve is not as complicated as it looks like. SMG is fairly big enough to 
 keep you hooked for hours and hours, the option of going planet to planet is fun, that it will 
 keep you coming for more.
  
  Value: compared to other short games out there, this game is lengthy and being worth 50 dollars 
 is money well spent compared to other games out there on PS3 and 360 in which only offers 6-8 hr 
 of single player fun.
  
  If you are a fan of Mario and crave for something fun like Mario 64 with a mix of mario Sunshine, 
 this is your game. It should not be missed out by any Nintendo fan or gamer at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diarmud
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game, but not the second coming that others have made it out to be. Much of the 
 complexity that it adds comes from bewildering perspective shifts, rather than clever level design. 
 This is a great game, but not one of the best games of all time. Indeed, I don't even think that 
 it is the best Wii game (Zelda and Metroid Prime are, in my opinion, better games) . Less focus 
 on the gravitty defining aspect would have made for a better game. It is still a great game, but 
 it would have been ever better if it hadn't been less gimmicky. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdoreen6969
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Although I do not have 1 favorite game for the WII, I do enjoy playing this title. I like the different 
 things that they did to the levels to make them interesting, I think they went for something different 
 and they pulled it off, some people are not into change and if you are one of them you might want 
 to stick to the older mario's, This game was pretty easy I must say, until you get to the end of 
 it, then it can get tough. My favorite character was the bee mario, it was just fun to fly around, 
 and of course the dreaded spring mario , I found it was hard to control and to jump you had to 
 push the button at the right time. The colors were very nicely done, and also a short story, so 
 there are some bad things to say about it, but this is just what I think of the game!
  
  Jason Doreen 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dominic8292
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  I got this game the day it came out, and it is definitely the best game that is currently out for 
 the Wii. If you like the adventure Mario games, like 64 and sunshine, then I defiantly recommend 
 this game to you. Once I got the game, I could not stop playing it until I beat it in only a few 
 days. The graphics and surround sound are amazing, it fells like you are Mario, especially when 
 it is on a big HDTV! An essential for any Wii owner! A couple parts might get a little annoying 
 here and there rarely thought the game, but the positives beat the negatives out for sure! It is 
 really fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklord239
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  When I got SMG I really didn't know what to expect. It looked like a good game, but boy did this 
 game sur-pass my expectations. This game is simply amazing and reminds gamers why we even play 
 videogames. Its not about the graphics or the fancy weapons, its about having fun, and SMG delivers 
 that fun throughout your entire time playing it. The story in SMG is classic mario, peach is kidnapped 
 by bowser, and its mario's job to save her, but now its all in space. There is an optional storyline, 
 and while niether are really all that good people don't play these mario games for the story. What 
 makes SMG so good is the gameplay, and all the things you'll be doing throughout the game. Gravity 
 and spherial worlds come into play here, and is what really makes the game stand out. While for 
 the first couple of hours it can be disorenting, you'll eventually get the hang of it, and it won't 
 bother you at all. Another thing that really stands out about SMG is the level designs and the 
 things you'll be doing throughout the game. One moment your in a bee suit fighting some bugs, then 
 the next your be surfing on the back of a sting-ray. There's a ton of things to do in SMG, and 
 while you'll be able to beat the game with only 60 stars, you'd be a fool not to keep playing till 
 you get all 120 stars. If you want to get 60 stars it will probably take you 9-13 hours depending 
 on how good you are, but to get all 120 stars it will easily take you 30-40 hours. The other thing 
 that really stands out in SMG is the music. This has to be the best music in a game this year, 
 and one of the best music ever. You simply will not get tired of hearing the music in SMG. Graphic 
 wise this is the best graphics on the wii. While its not a gears of war, the art design and characters 
 look really good, so graphics in SMG are the best on a wii game to date. While SMG is an amazing 
 game, there are a one little problem with it .How come after I save up all my lives and then go 
 take a break, I start all over again with only 4? Yes SMG is one of the most impressive games to 
 come out ever, and this is a game that gamers really just need to play. Now should you buy or rent 
 this game? If your the kinda person that will keep playing after you get all 120 star SPOILER (after 
 you get them you play as Luigi) this is a game you'll want to buy, for everyone else this is the 
 best rental out right now. If you've been wanting a wii for a while now, but really haven't found 
 an excuse to go out and buy it, this is a perfect one for you to use. Its a clear contender for 
 game of the year and one of the best games ever. Just play this game, you won't be disappointed. 
 
  
  The good
  Amazing gameplay
  Great Level Design 
  Best music in a game all year
  
  The bad
  Besides that you lose your lives after you turn off your wii, nothing comes to mind
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mewmaster93
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  When Sunshine came out people were majorly disappointed by the game and were waiting for a true 
 sequel to the popular Super Mario 64.
  Then came this game.
  
  This game redefines all other Mario games by being the best Mario Platformer in a long time. You 
 have most of your basic moves from the last game. (A couple moves were taken out for unknown reasons) Plus 
 you can also shoot Star Bits. Little star objects that stun enemies and Feed Hungry Lumas. The plot 
 is a little different. It starts out with Mario going to a festival, but then Bowser ruins it with 
 his airships he the performs a Paper Mario and carries to castle into space. Mario tries to save 
 Peach but is sent flying to an unknown moon. A Princess named Rosalina tells Mario that to find 
 Peach and stop Bowser. He will need to find the Grand Stars that Bowsers Henchmen have kept, along 
 with 120 power stars. Along the way you meet up with this group of Toads and Luigi.
  
  The Galaies were very well thought out for this game. In one 
  Galaxy you are On a place full 
 of candy. And another one you are in a place filled with Toys. Sadly the game is kind of easy due 
 to the easy 1-ups you obtain in the game.
  
  In the second half of the game things start to feel repetitive. It feels like your going through 
 the same galaxies again but only harder.
  
  Their are new suits in this game too. I'll explain each one.
  
  Bee Suit: Bee Mario allows you 
 to Fly for a short period of time and climb on honeycombs
  
  Boo Suit: Boo Mario allows you to float around and pass through solid objects.
  
  Fire Mario: By 
 flicking the Wii-mote you can toss fire balls.
  
  Ice Mario: You can walk on water. (you should've also been able to toss snowballs to freeze enemies)
 
  
  Spring Suit: You can jump very high.
  
  
  The Difficulty is very high on some areas (Whoever came up with the Ball missions needs to have 
 their clipboard taken away)
  
  All in all this is probably the best Mario game alive. And will be for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super-Mario-Fan
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying that I don't give perfect 10s very often. In fact, this is the second 
 perfect 10 I've given out of 40 reviews (the first being Super Smash Bros. Melee) . Mario Galaxy 
 proves that even games released today can be just as innovative and revolutionary as those during 
 the golden age of video games. The gameplay is some of the most responsive I've seen with the Wii 
 thus far, and the graphics really push the console to it's limits. The lighting and bloom effects 
 are amazing, and put GameCube ported games like Twilight Princess to shame. The sounds are also 
 very beautiful and fully orchestrated. A lot of work was obviously put together to get a superb 
 symphony for this game. Getting 60 stars and defeating bowser does seem a little easy, but after 
 that, the difficulty really does ramp up. Getting 120 stars in Mario Galaxy is no easier than in 
 previous Mario installments. And even after you collect 120 stars as Mario, it still isn't over 
 yet (I'm not gonna spoil anything beyond this) . The replay value in this game is huge, especially 
 for a single-player oriented game that isn't a RPG. Even though it is focused on single-player, 
 there is a multiplayer component involved. At anytime during the game, a second player can join 
 in on the action to help the first player out. This involves a second pointer that allows the second 
 player to pick up star bits and shoot them at enemies, and they can even stun enemies by holding 
 the A button down. It is a great feature for casuals who may have a hard time getting stars. Unless 
 you are completely broke, there is no excuse for not getting this game. If you don't have it yet, 
 get up, go to the store, and buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTAIV07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is a very fun and immersive game for the wii and uses the controller very well. 
 The nunchuk for moving around and the wii remote for pointing stuff at the TV in the game. You're 
 in a galaxy to explore planet after planet and defeat boss after boss. The boss battles are relitively 
 easy but they are mario's classic. Super Mario Galaxy is easy even for a beginner but really involves 
 the family and a very addicting game. Nintendo did a really good job on the environments and enemies 
 on this game. If you get a wii for christmas, get this as your first game! Can't stop playing it!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrimusStream
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game, I thought it would be very bad, but when I bought this game, 
 it changed my opinion drastically. The graphics and the game play were amazing and a lot more advance 
 than Super Mario 64. I love where you have to go to different galaxies and planets and getting 
 stars in each and every one of them. Another thing that I like in here is that another person can 
 use the Wii mote and help the player out which is sort of like a 2-player helping one another and 
 that was what amazes me in there. Nearly whatever that they have in this game really meets all 
 of my expectations and you get to play as Luigi after getting 120 stars, which is like in Super 
 Mario 64 where you get 100 1-ups by Yoshi and 120 Sprites in Super Mario Sunshine and you get...... 
 a T-shirt. Anyways, this is the best Mario game out there and it can bring anyone together by playing 
 this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon376
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 6:03 am PT
Review:  This is one of the few games that I have played recently that lived up to the reviews and then 
 some. The graphics are incredibly beautiful and artistic and it shows how much effort was put into 
 this game by the designers. The gameplay is top notch and I feel plays better than any other mario 
 game going back to super mario world. I like how you can have another player help out by freezing 
 enemies and shooting out star bits. This is a nice little touch and it has my girlfriend and I 
 addicted to this game. This is one of the most original mario games to date, I dont mind going 
 back to the same levels over and over for the comets, luigi etc because the levels are so much 
 fun. 
  On the negative side, I admit the game is a little on the easy side and I also wish it was a little 
 longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hannagargour
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 3:43 am PT
Review:  Lets get the negatives out of the way. That way we may indulge ourselves on all the good things 
 Mario Galaxy brings to the Wii.
  
  Controls: I don't necessarily agree with Gamespots 'perfect controls' pro. Sometimes the camera 
 doesnt move on small spheres which leaves controls feeling slightly fidgety when your on the other 
 side. They really are perfect otherwise and its great having a seond player playing along.
  
  Visuals: graphics are pretty good. Not great... but pretty good. Once you start playing it, 
 you wont care at all. 
  
  Thats pretty much all the cons I could think of, Gamepot mentioned something about a weak story... 
 but this is Mario. When has there ever really been a strong story? Its all about the gameplay ladies 
 and gentlemen!
  
  The gameplay is astonishing. There are millions of games out there now... but only one mario. It 
 FEELS and PLAYS like mario alwas has and non have ever been able to mimick it though many have 
 obviously tried. I'm perplexed at how it FEELS to play. It feels as if your playing all the old 
 classic Mario games... but your not. 
  
  Ideas ooze out of the gme in such great spurts, I keep wondering 'why hasn't anyone ever thought 
 of that before'. So many great ides means you never get the chance to get bored of something before 
 something new has already popped up. The game is constantly changing and gets more and more fun 
 to play. 
  
  I'm glad this is a mario game. Cause that means a lot of people are going to get the chance to 
 experiance it for themselves. I just cant seem to put it down. I played ten hours last night and 
 even dreamt about it. 
  
  Bravo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshi1476
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 1:00 am PT
Review:  Mario Galaxy is definitely one of the best if not the best Nintendo games I have ever seen. Its 
 outstanding graphics and superior quality game play sets the standard for all wii games to come. 
 While it has only come out 3 days ago here in Australia it is the best game I have ever seen. Mario's 
 journeys have reached an all time high with this game. Taking your imagination to a whole new galaxy. 
 The graphics of another universe. The game play of another solar system and same old Mario taken 
 to heights not even imagned. To infinity then Mario Galaxy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adamario_129
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 11:14 pm PT
Review:  I'll confess, I had very little excitement for this game way back when it was announced. I've always 
 been a huge Mario fan, but I wasn't a huge fan of 3D Marios. I liked 64 when it first came out, 
 but the N64's lousy controller meant that I just quit playing after getting around 95 stars. Around 
 2003, I was severely Sunburned. Sunshine was a decent enough video game, but as a Mario game, it 
 was a major disappointment, and the appalling lack of variety and classic Marioness drove me away 
 before getting anywhere near the final boss. And then when Mario 64 DS came out, I became even 
 more disillusioned with SM64, with the controls becoming even worse and the original game's sense 
 of freedom totally nuked by needlessly segregating Mario's abilities across 4 characters. And so, 
 when Galaxy was announced, I liked the name, but I didn't dare to get my hopes up in the slightest.
 
  
  I was wrong.
  
  It almost goes without saying that Galaxy is, in my opinion, by far the best 3D Mario. Everything 
 Sunshine should have done, Galaxy rewrites the book on, and everything 64 did right back in the 
 day, Galaxy meets for today, and carries it all to a new level.
  
  While I don't think it's the most important part of the game, it must be said that Galaxy's graphics 
 are basically perfect. Rather than aiming for photorealism and failing noticeably, it aims high 
 and achieves it. This is what 64 wanted to look like, and what Sunshine should have remembered. 
 Everything just looks right; the Goombas, the Thwomps, the gorgeous lava, particle effects, lighting, 
 water, and almost Banjo-Kazooie style characters.
  
  On a related note, it does a better job of blending classic Mario with new elements than perhaps 
 any Mario game before it. No ugly Electro-Koopas here, but real Koopas, Dry Bones, Wigglers, Magikoopas, 
 Boos, Cheep Cheeps, and Torpedo Teds alongside brand-new characters that don't look out of place 
 in the slightest, and that's a big accomplishment in itself. Also, it features the long-overdue 
 debut of the Fire Flower in a 3D Mario. I do sometimes wish it weren't time-limited, but I understand 
 the game-balancing issues - and really, isn't the simple presence of 3D Fire Mario enough for now?
 
  
  When it comes to controls, Galaxy channels the spirit of 64 and cranks it up several magnitudes, 
 making it one of the very few games that is simply fun to control. This is what the Wii is all 
 about - if there is any frustration in a game, it should not stem from a poor connection between 
 the player and the character. The controls of any game ought to be as seamless as possible, and 
 for the most part, Galaxy excels at just that. There are certainly a number of times that the gravity 
 is disorienting, but over 90% of the time, you are in absolute control of Mario.
  
  The gameplay is similar to 64's, going to various worlds and collecting stars, with bosses at various 
 intervals. One welcome change is a reduced average number of stars per world, bringing much greater 
 variety than 64 had. (Don't even start with Sunshine, which was basically a dozen beach levels) 
 The number of stars seems to be a very good balance, though a few more certainly couldn't hurt.
 
  
  The replacement for 64's castle and Sunshine's Delfino Plaza is the Comet Observatory, which combines 
 the openness of the plaza with the simplicity and understandability of the castle. Also, it rectifies 
 one of Sunshine's worst errors in my opinion - making the worlds practically indecipherable before 
 entering them. Now, there is a map viewable at several locations throughout the observatory showing 
 the location of each level, five in each dome. Once you enter a dome, its galaxies are represented 
 in 3D, give their name when pointed at, and can be backed out of after selecting them, unlike 64 
 and SMS, where if you picked the wrong level by accident, you had to pick a star, watch the intro 
 (in Sunshine) , pause, choose Exit Level, and then make your way back to where you were in the hub. 
 I don't know about you, but for me, that was an enormous improvement. Anything that reduces frustration 
 is a good thing.
  
  One thing that I really loved was the significant influence from the Paper Mario series. Superficial 
 things like Bowser lifting Peach's castle into the sky, collecting seven big stars to progress 
 the plot, and using the same dialogue font and pipe sound effect, but more importantly, a good 
 integration of a concise plot that never interferes with the gameplay. In fact, gameplay-wise, 
 I think Galaxy does plot better than any of the PMs.
  
  Also, in the tradition of Thousand-Year Door and Super Paper Mario, Galaxy includes a deep backstory 
 that can be read or ignored at your leisure. This one is less detailed, more personal and fairy-tale-ish 
 than the others, which I think fits the series better. I, for one, want to see more of this in 
 upcoming games.
  This (finally) leads into the title of the review. Just about everything about this game is epic, 
 from the music in the first level that sounds straight out of Zelda, to the incredible boss fights, 
 none of which I'll spoil. Yet, a bit unexpectedly, it is still perfectly true to the "essence of 
 Mario." In fact, it's more Mario-y than any Mario game to come for a long time, because not only 
 is it simple to control, difficult to master, and incredibly fun the whole way through, it also 
 hearkens back to the sense of terror you used to get from running around giant rotating arms of 
 fire and fighting a huge turtle-dragon in a castle, rather than the Strong Bad-Bowser of the recent 
 Paper Mario games. Not that I don't like Comic Relief Bowser, it's just that it's high time Epic 
 Scary Bowser made a comeback. I doubt you're going to have nightmares over it, but Bowser is still 
 very epic.
  
  I've already said that Galaxy is the best 3D Mario game, but is it the best Mario game of all time? 
 While it does have its flaws, mainly a few camera and control issues, it may very well be the best. 
 I think I have a bit of a talent for seeing older games without nostalgia-tinted glasses, and the 
 way I see it, Galaxy is a more consistently enjoyable experience than any other Mario game I've 
 played - and I've played a lot of them. Some people may gripe about the difficulty, but I think 
 it's pretty much perfect. If I wanted frustration, I wouldn't have gone to my room to play video 
 games. I have plenty of places to go through frustration for a minimal reward. Video games are 
 where I go to have fun, and as far as I'm concerned, Galaxy does it better than any other game 
 out there.
  
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasukedevil
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  The Good: - The best platformer on the Wii and possibly every console out!
  - You'll not be disappointed.
  - The controls are easy to get used to after the first few minutes.
 
  - Bosses, levels, powers are AWESOME!
  
  The Bad: - Some of the Wii controls are frustrating.
  - Later on it gets pretty tough.
  
 
  [Regular Review] *Key word you'll see alot in this review... (FRUSTRATING)
  
  It's almost impossible to say how excited I was to pick this game up. At first I seemed skeptical 
 just because the controls could have been hard to control or I would get a headache because of 
 being upside down or whatever. It's definltely better than expected and then some.
  
  There is some controls that are very annoying though. Such as rolling onto a ball or being on a 
 stingray... or SWIMMING. I hate swimming in this game, but luckily there is turtle shells to help 
 you control yourself under water a little better. But without it, it would be the same as Super 
 Mario 64's swimming, but possibly more frustrating.
  
  The regular controls are very clean and won't be frustrating at all. The main frustration comes 
 out of dying alot. You'll defintely hate dying alot in this game, and having to retry over on certain 
 levels. Luckily you can skip them if you like and try others to reach your first goal, which is 
 to collect 60 stars. There is a total of 120 in the game, and by the time I decided to head to 
 the final planet I had already 99 stars.
  
  Platforming is very nicely executed and will be easy to do. The only new things added that are 
 different from other Mario games are the Spin Attack, which is shaking the WiiMote and some new 
 powers, which I don't really want to spoil. One of the new powers however is very hard to control, 
 even though your not using your WiiMote to manuever anything.
  
  Each galaxy (level) in the game has at least three main stars to collect, but first you have to 
 get the first main star, the second, and the last. That's how each galaxy is done, but there is 
 at least 1 secret star to find, which isn't that secretive because once your done with the three 
 main stars, it will automatically show you which episode (stage) as I like to call them, has the 
 secret star. There is also comet stars, varying from speeding through the level, facing a boss 
 with 1 bar of health, or racing this Cosmic Version of youself. The comet editions are better than 
 collect red coins. There is purple coins in the game, but that's after you've completed your main 
 goal and the final boss. The purple coins come in to play after you've done those two things and 
 you must collect 100 of them on all the galaxies you've done. Remember though, it's after you've 
 beaten the game.
  
  The bosses are very AWESOME and you'll definitely feel the Mario vibe going on when you face them. 
 Some include a huge @s$ squid, the Magician Koopa (forget if he's called that) , and many others. 
 What is much more improved from other Mario games about the bosses is that you get taught how to 
 defeat the bosses before hand. Definitely a nice improvement... but almost every boss usually has 
 a three hit to death situation. I guess Nintendo loves the number three.
  
  Once you've beaten the game and/or collected 120 stars, there isn't much to do after. You'll love 
 every single level and detail put into the game. The graphics are much better than any previous 
 Mario game and are the best graphics on the Wii to date. The main story (or if you try collecting 
 up to 60 stars) can range up to 10 - 15 hours depending on which levels you do. Everything in the 
 game to complete can take about 30+ hours. Hell, you may even want to play again if you like.
 
  
  There is some multiplayer in the game, but it's more like a helping pal then actual multiplayer. 
 Just having a second player will help you stun enemies or grab starbits (which is in-game currency 
 you give to Hungry Lumas) . 
  
  All in all, this game is the best game of the year or at least the best platformer ever! Go buy 
 this game if you have a Wii and you will NOT be disappointed! Just what will Mario be doing next? 
 Plumbing? Or will he meet Link or Samus? Who knows?!?
  
  
  Summary:
  
  The controls are easy to get used to and it's only an issue for some WiiMote funtionalities. Every 
 level and every boss looks breathtaking, even if you still think this game looks bland. The platforming 
 is probably the best ever and can be easily the best Mario game to date. (Sorry Hotel Mario, someone 
 is better) The game isn't that long if you just try getting the 60 stars. Doing everything else 
 practically doubles the game to take about 30+ hours of your time. Or even more if your still a 
 novice player. Go buy this game if you don't have it already. It's probably the best platformer 
 ever!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkreleaser
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Like I said before This is a good game i have played all the mario games and i would have to say 
 this one is the best XD! I played it for like a week so its pretty good. I have played the Super 
 mario ever since. I was a kid and I would have to say that Mario is one of Nindendo's best creations. 
 This game takes me back all the way from Mario 64. I mean look first it was a land, then a world, 
 and now a galaxy. This game lives up to build-up in so many ways. The game absolutely explodes with 
 color and life. But it is no doubt Super mario galaxy is one of the best games ever created. Cant 
 wait for the next one. Awsome work nintendo. XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smeg1967
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  From start to finnish this game is a triumph. The gameplay is pure gold, The graphics really are 
 jawdropping for a wii game. The music is embeded in the subconcious and will remain for years to 
 come. Suffice to say nintendo have produced an absolute gem.
  The concept see's the portly plumber blast into space to... wait for it... Save princess peach, 
 who i must say is looking pretty polished for a near forty year old chick (see super mario brothers 
 1985) . So nintendo won't win any prizes for plot yet hey you know where you are.
  The time taken on the phyisics of the game is outstanding every platform mario jumps on has a unique 
 centre of gravity its great fun testing each out. Every star mario collects brings a fantastic 
 new gravitation challange. This really is awe inspiring and throught the game you'll be amazed. 
 Despite this game's sheen of simplicity it is amazingly clever. Some planets request mario to to 
 go inside the centre and find the star. Just little intricate touches that make this game even 
 more special.
  The music is beautiful. It really catches the mood and at times makes the hair on the back of your 
 neck stand on end. 
  Graphically its really is outstanding. Anyone that thinks the wii is uncapable of next gen esque 
 graphics should take a look at this game. Brilliantly designed. 
  Any sore points? Only two its too easy and therefore too short. 60 stars finnishes the plot and 
 120 finnishes the game. It doesnt take long to visit every galaxy and planet by 60 stars but it 
 should keep you going to reach 120.
  So really this review is a waste of time. Anyone reading this review already knows this game is 
 outstanding. So this could be the little nudge you need to get up and buy it. Don't think twice, 
 I'd put my house up for anyone to find someone who doesn't like this game.
  To be a 22 year old franchise and still revolutionise games is a triumph. Well done ninty and therefore 
 one of the best game's ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kupatange
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  This game may seem a bit childish, but it is really fun once you get used to it! it is so imaginative 
 from ghostly haunted mansions to deserts to fiery galaxies. LOL. Mario is amazing in this game, 
 with the graphics set a at a high level compared with the Wii's typical graphics. You can see Bowser's 
 skin reflecting off the miraculous star glaring at Mario's revengeful face. Guess what? This game 
 might seem easy, but on some levels you might need to use some thinking. Surprises always lurk 
 your way, just like it happened to me on a galaxy with the mushroom guys (lol, I forget what it 
 is called) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3aMoOoR_89
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  If you have a Wii and you are reading this review at this moment .First you should shut down you 
 computer ,then go to your car and drive to the nearest video games store and buy it or rent it 
 or steel it if you have to :p. And enjoy playing the best game ever. Trust me you will not regret 
 it.. In this game there are 120 stars need to be found ,some of you will think its too much for 
 120 ( well, not for me i think its not enough because i have been playing this game like crazy 
 and i usually dont do that , but what can i say its an amazing game ) hope you like the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ultrashroom77
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  Right from the beginning you can tell the detail, time, and effort that was put into Super Mario 
 Galaxy. Super Mario Galaxy starts with a drawn out scene of Bowser lifting Peach's Castle into 
 space and kidnapping her with some very nostalgic music. There are a handful of remixed tunes from 
 Mario 64 and other past games which only add to the awesomeness. This is the first Mario game to 
 have orchestrated a music. It really sounds as if you are listening to a CD. Gameplay wise, Mario 
 Galaxy starts of awesome and finishes even more awesome. Unlike sunshine which had a great number 
 of stars that seemed rehashed and tedious, Galaxy will make you feel like your experiencing everything 
 for the first time even after you complete the game. The length of this game is astonishing. It 
 is about 20 hours if you're just going for beating the game at 60 stars and many, many more to 
 get all 120, and it doesn't end there. The difficulty is very easy at first, but a few of the later 
 stars are a pain in the ***. While these few stars may cause you to hate the game temporarily, 
 there's just no denying the feeling of accomplishment when you finally get the star. There are 
 just no complaints with Super Mario Galaxy. It has a huge variety of levels, stunning orchestrated 
 music, incredible length and replayability. Mario Galaxy is everything you would want from a video 
 game. It is very addicting and will keep you playing until the very end. (and then you will want 
 to play it again) . 
  Let's just hope we don't have to wait a hundred years for the Comet Observatory to return to get 
 another game of this quality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waZelda
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  Some games go on the "games that all gamers must have" list, however this game go on the "don't 
 leave earth without it" list. It is stunning both in graphics and gameplay, so it beats every previously 
 released Super Mario game.
  
  There is a much more detailed story and conscept than in Super Mario 64.
  
  Story: Bowser returns 
 to Mushroom kingdom at the star festival. This time he is far more high tech than before. He manage 
 to kidnape both Peach and the castle at the same time. He will bring her to the center og the galaxy 
 where he is making an empire from which he can rule the universe. By accident Bowser get Mario 
 with him, but soon, Mario is sent away from the castle. He wakes up on a little round planet, but 
 after a short time he finds his way to the Comet Observatory, the home of Rosalina, and a lot of 
 Lumas (small star-formed creators that transform into stars or galaxys when they grow up) . She 
 will help you, but in order to get to the center of the universe you must fire up the Comet Observatory 
 with star power. You must first get all the grand stars - to light up all the areas of the Observatory, 
 then you must get enough power stars. Of course, when you can finaly travel to the center of the 
 universe, you meet Bowser and figth him. I will not tell you what happends afterward. Rosalina 
 and the Lumas have their own story, which you can find in Rosalinas library. You unlock it chapter 
 by chapter.
  
  Conscept: You have the same moves as in SM64, except from all moves that require the B button. 
 The B button is now used to shooting stars. Your new move is the spin attack (shake the remote) . 
 In the observatory, there are six domes. From each dome you can shoot yourself out to a certain 
 number of galaxys (with a certain number of power stars required to unlock it) . In every dome, 
 except from the last, there is one boss level where you get a grand star. When you get a grand 
 star, you unlock the next dome. There are big and small galaxys. The small ones only have one star, 
 the big ones have three, plus two comet stars and a "hidden" star. There are diferent comets. In 
 every galaxy there is a purple comet (they start coming after you have defeated Bowser in the final 
 boss figth) . Purple comet challenges is when you have to find 100 purple coins (on some of them 
 you have a time limit) . The other comet is a cosmic comet (race Shadow Mario) , a Speedy Comet (Time 
 trouble) , a Fast foe comet (explains itself) and a daredevil comet (you only have 1 hp) . Normally 
 you have 3 hp, but you can double it by finding a special mushroom. You collect star bits, which 
 is what Lumas eat. If you feed star bits to a hungry Luma it will transform into a planet or into 
 a one star galaxy. There are also three green stars. If you find them, you will activate a star 
 spinner (very common objects in the game, helps you fly around in space) . From this star spinner 
 you can shoot yourself to three new galaxys.
  
  There are some conscept on the way. You might sometimes have to find five golden pieces to get 
 a star spinner. Sometimes you have to get all the notes to get a star (or something else) . Also 
 you can turn into Ice Mario, Fire Mario, Flying Mario, Boo Mario, Bee Mario, invincible Mario (for 
 a short time) and another kind which gives you the abuility to jump really high.
  
  There is more that I wont tell you about (I don't want this review to get too long) . There is a 
 total of 120 stars and if you get them all... No, I won't tell you that.
  
  This is a special game because of the unique gravity on the diferent galaxys. It is a great variety 
 of conscepts. This game is more like a 3D super mario bros game. You do not have the same freedom 
 as in SM64 and SMS, however I don't miss it. It is not needed. This game is perfect without it. 
 There is a lot of small boss figths (some better than others, but most of them are good) . There 
 is three figths against Bowser (with a new conscept that is almost better than in SM64) . It has 
 it all, couldn't have been better. I do believe it is the best game I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: air_wolf_cubed
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy lives up to the hype. The minute you start playing this game you will say wow
 
  
  So the story isnt all that great cause it's the same old save the princess. Also the way it happens 
 is that the castle gets lifted up into the sky. Thats basically stolen from the first Paper Mario. 
 The amazing cutscenes make up for how unoriginal the story is. They are amazing. Oh and how you 
 savew the Princess is you've gotta collect 120 stars.
  
  As for the graphics, well all I can say is that my eyes fell in love :) This game has some of the 
 most beautiful art in any video game to date. While the graphics may not be good as most PS3 or 
 360 games, I'm not one to review a game based on how it compares to other games.
  You can just look at this game and see how beautiful it is. The slick environments and details 
 with virtually no moldy or crappy details. Where the flaw kicks in is if you zoom in to first person 
 you can see some crappy details but its really not that big a problem.
  
  As for sound the sound is amazing. Great orchestrated music runs throughout the game and catchy 
 and addicting classic mario music is in the rest. Nintendo has done a great job with the music 
 because you never will get tired of it.
  As for other audio, I can say that basically EVERYTHING makes a sound. From the pitter patter of 
 little goomba footprints to all the objects you can see on the screen. It is unbelievable that 
 everything makes a sound.
  A flaw is the voice acting. Yes you get some voice acting here and there but the game is basically 
 text driven and there's nothing terrible about that. It would just be funnier if you could hear 
 what everything is saying.
  
  And Gameplay. Almost perfect. This game is sooooo fun. Control mario through gravity defying and 
 tricky platforming. Jump between 2 planets and see which one you land on. Launch off of star pads 
 and sail through the galaxy. There's only so much more I can say. 
  The wii remote is very well used in the game. You shake the wii remote to make mario spin and you 
 can aim at the screen and shoot star bits at enemies. Also you control Mario on a ball and Mario 
 surfing on a ray and none of it feels gimmick or over used and it never seems to get old.
  Power up suits are also very fun. There's bee mario which is my personal favoprite. Allows you 
 to fly short distances and climb up honey and walk onto flowers. There's fire mario which lasts 
 a very short time and in the long run, seems kind of useless. There's fling Mario which allows 
 mario to fly for a while but what's bad is it's rarely used i the game. There are a few more but 
 I'm handing out too many spoilers.
  At first the game might seem easy if you got everything down but don't be fooled. The game gets 
 very tricky and you might find yourself dieing many times going for the same star. A few complaints 
 are that some stars may seem pretty impossible to collect. Like throwing bombs at trash can be 
 very hard and finding all 100 of the purple coins seems near impossible on some galaxies. Oh and 
 did I mention boss fights with only one health. Jeez. Another, yet very tiny, complaint is the 
 camera. The camera is automatic but you can control it with the D-pad on the wii remote but most 
 of the time it never wants to cooperate. Lets say you wanna turn the camera around to collect star 
 bits but only rarely will it cooperate. It can get in the way of the fun and the star collecting 
 but the best you can do is adapt to it and just play the game.
  
  Overall, Super Mario Galaxy is a must buy for any Wii owner and Mario fan and this is one of the 
 best 50 bucks I ever spent :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellmonkey012
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy, in my case, is the first REAL Mario 3D plat-former since Super Mario 64. Sunshine 
 was a little dissapionting to me. Galaxy takes place in space ,of course, but here is how he gets 
 there. Every 100 years a comet of stars falls. It is called the star festival. Princess Peach sends 
 Mario a messege asking for him to come. At this festival, not one star falls but 121 sars fall. 
 And just as you arive, Bowser comes floying on s sky ship and steals the whole castle including 
 princess peach. That is how you get in space. In space, you meet a girl named Rosalina who lives 
 in the planet observatory which sails through space. In the observatory are about 25 galaxies which 
 you can explore. The observatory has lost its power and cannot sail through the center of the univers 
 where Peach is unless you collect the power sars to power the observatory. The galaxies themeselves 
 are the best part. The gravity makes you be able to travel all around the planets. The planets 
 aren't really even planets. They are more like obstacles and puzzles. They are great to look at 
 and even more fun to play. The designs are so well thought out. The game has about the same controls 
 as Mario 64 and motion controls are surprisingly limited. But I think that is good. Your main attack 
 is the spin move which you do by shaking the remote. Your secondary attack is shooting star bits 
 . You can collect them by pointing at them with the remote. You shoot them by aiming and pressing 
 B. The game is short. You only need to collect 60 stars to beat the game. But if your like me, 
 you are going to collect all 121. The graphics are the best so far on the Wii. And the music is 
 great to. It has some classic songs as well as remixes and new songs. The power ups are back. They 
 have originals like the fire flower. But they have fun new ones like the Bee mushroom which turns 
 you into a bee, the Boo mushroom which turns you into a boo and go through walls, the ice flower 
 which turns you into ice and lets you walk on water, and the spring which wraps a giant spring 
 around you and makes you jump super high. The spring is the only one I had problems with and swimming 
 is a little hard too but little swimming is required so thats good.
  
  THE GOOD; Great graphics and sound. Fun design and gameplay. New power ups. A ton of secrets. Old 
 and new characters are back.
  
  THE BAD; Some power ups are difficult.
  
  OVERALL; Galaxy is a must buy for any Wii owner and Mario fan. If you do not get this game you 
 deserve to die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agentdandb
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing mario games all my life. So when i heard about Super Mario Galaxy i was alittle 
 worried. Because being in space, going upside down well didn't really appeal to me. So i watched 
 a few trailers, the graphics looked amazing but i still was'nt sure about this game. So I took 
 a risk and got it. I played it for an hour and i was hooked. I loved it. I thought Nintendo should 
 of thought about this earlier.
  
  The good-
  Great gameplay. The Wii remote works fantastic thoughout the game. Great to have luigi in the game. 
 Fun and different levels.
  
  The Bad-
  Short game, only need to 60 stars to get to the last boss. A side Storyline does nothing for the 
 game. Many parts of the game are to easy. Many Boss fights are simple and easy.
  
  The graphics are so far the best the Wii has. The gameplay is spectacular. This game deserves a 
 10 because of graphics, story, and the amazing levels. I think even if the graphics were gamecube 
 graphics, the game would still be amazing. Because gameplay makes a game not Graphics. Sure graphics 
 make it better. But if this game had the best graphics to date and the gameplay sucked would it 
 be a good game? NO. So overall Super mario Galaxy deserves all the good reveiws because it is the 
 best mario game so far. Yes i think it is better than 64. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyauau
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Since Super Mario 64 and Super Mario Sunshine, this game finally brought out what's truly missing 
 from other games is simply an epic quest and having a huge place to explore.
  
  The gameplay from previous Mario games is very tight and totally easy to use. Jumping, running... 
 all those things are made to work very well. Not to mention that you might encounter bosses and 
 the need to use any weapons at your disposal is whole heartedly recommended to as close as Legend 
 of Zelda: Twilight Princess,
  
  The graphics is stunning if you put it at its highest level if you have a TV that can handle progressive 
 scanning and a widescreen format.
  
  The sound is also good with memorable tracks and voice acting played out very well and always it 
 comes with Dolby Pro Logic 2 support.
  
  The value is immence that you really need to collect tons of stars to progress through the game.
 
  
  I have nothing else to say but to try out this game despite some nostalgia, this game should leave 
 you with great memories. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brainboy77777
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  This game has everything you want, save real multiplayer. but multiplayer would just fuck up this 
 beauty of a game. it's so addicting. you won't stop until you get all 120 stars, then the other 
 120 stars with luigi. literally, you will stay up all night and all day. it's that fun. If i did 
 have to find a flaw, literally, the only thing i can think of is that sometimes the spin move might 
 be a little buggy. but it's only noticeable if you're not doing anything, it doesn't screw up the 
 gameplay in this sense. oh and mario's voice is kind of annoying. but we all know that. amazing 
 game. i do not regret buying it. so much fun. BUY IT NOW!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guidono123
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  To start, this is one of the best games I have ever played in my entire life. Its so good, I wish 
 I had not finished it yet , so I could play it again. This game is so great, that I am going to 
 analize by areas.
  
  1. Gameplay: The gameplay is as good as it gets. Walking is controlled woth the nunchuk, obviosly, 
 but some fun things you do with it the remote to move Mario are great. Some of them include Ray 
 surfing, rolling a ball, flying, and shaking it to climb vines. The primary attack system ( spin, 
 which you do by shaking the wii remote) works well all the time. Jumping through platforms affected 
 by gravity rules, and all the launch stars make it fun. The suits, oh, they are extremely awesome, 
 and serve their purpose perfectly. Gameplay is defintely the strong point of this game, and they 
 should make more game with this mechanics .
  
  2. Graphics: Think state of the art ( stole from gamespot :) ) . The visuals are excellent, and 
 this shows what the WIi can do. Everything runs smoothly, the characters look great ( specially 
 bowser) and the galaxies are not the same, NONE of them look alike and are great to play. Another 
 strong point of the game.
  
  3. Sound: What TP did not do in orchestrated music, SMG did in a huge and awesome way. The sound 
 is great, and sometimes, you will want to play this game only to hear the music. Nuff Said.
  
  4. Value: They main storyline takes about 6 hours to complete, but to actually complete all 
 the game, you are looking at 20-25 hours of gameplay, and you can use Luigi!!! Period.
  
  5. Difficulty: Heres the only complain I have abotu this game. Its just a lil to easy, but the 
 replay value keeps, sucking me in, so thats why I put the difficulty in just right. If you look 
 for a fiar challenge, you will do good in picking up SMG.
  
  6. Tilt: It completely changes the way some platformers should be played, and the gravity is the 
 best addition to this game. If nintendo did more games with this in mind, they would make millions.
 
  
  
  Overrall, is the best game of all time , just behind Ocarina of  
 Trust me, 50 bucks is nothing to play this masterpiece over and over again until another incredibly 
 amazing tittle like this comes. Dont hesitate, buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ltfan15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  well to start things off i have to say that i love mario games ever since i played mario 64 which 
 was one of the best games that i have played ever. Then i heard this game was coming out and i 
 love that. i picked this game up a couple days after it came out and i started to play immediatly. 
 im only a couple of levels in and i really love this game. its so perfect the gravity effects are 
 great the lighting is great the graphics are great i cant say enough good things about this game. 
 there are a couple of bad features to the game for example the camera gets mixed up a couple of 
 times and thats not fun. also you may have heard some bad things about the suits. the bee suit 
 i heard was not fun but it really is not that bad i really like that suit its fun to fly around 
 and the level is fun. another thing that i do not like about the game is that two player mode is 
 not fun at all you should have put a real two player in or not at all. the two player is not fun 
 it is not addictive it is not smart at all. other then that it is the best game of the wii that 
 i have played. pick it up if you like mario or even if you like adventure games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeroXraven
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Everything about it will make you feel like your actually in these wierd world's and galaxies. 
 I dont even own a Wii but I bought the game anyway just to play on my cousins system. I just have 
 to say, this is one of my all time favorite games of all time. I really had no idea what to expect 
 from the videos and commercials, but I knew Nintendo wasn't going to let its hardcore fanbase down 
 on this work of art. You see as you play every little detail that there was so much work put into 
 making this game a true next generation title for the Wii. The Water, Vine effects, Mario himself, 
 the controls are not too gimicky but just right, the environment , the particle effects, and just 
 about every single thing in this game could be compared to any other title for any console. Now 
 for the breakdown:
  
  Graphics- As I said this game is a true piece of art . Beautiful worlds, particle effects, character 
 and enemy models, everything.
  
  Gameplay- This is what I didnt expect to be so good considering how bad the Wii mote has ruied 
 other games. But for once I actually feel content on using the Wii Mote. The controls are very 
 responsive and never let up. The Galaxies are actually huge and Stars in my opinion are harder 
 to get than on 64, just not all of them. There are a ton of different areas in this game that will 
 bring you back to the old days. Side scrolling parts, races, classic looking Mario 64 type levels, 
 and even chacing rabits is back. But the core game is running on all these small but large in scale 
 planets that you run circles around and such. Makes you feel like your playing something totally 
 new and unique, which you are of course.
  
  Sound- This is one thing Mario games are not really known for. Usually they are all the same sounds 
 as previous ones and recycled ones over and over. This time they orchestrated every single song. 
 The soundtrack for this game is excelent. If Nintendo released a soundtrack i'd be the first at 
 my local wal-mart haha. Its just that good. Their are still some of the same sounds though. Which 
 is actually a good thing. Mario still sounds the same and has maybe few new grunts and yells but 
 he is Mario so he really doesnt need a large vocabulary. The best part in the game in my opinion 
 is when you fight Bowser. His music for the first time made me feel like I was fighting an epic 
 and dangerous boss in a Mario game. Kudos to Nintendo if they add this awesome song into SSBB.
 
  
  Thing that are wrong- I only fell victum to a few deaths that I thought I shoulda lived on. I'm 
 still working on getting all the stars though and the only complaint I have is why didnt they make 
 the game a little longer. I mean the core story of course. Next Generation Mario needs to make 
 you have to get all 120 stars to fight bowser. That'd be a fun and exilerating challenge. Those 
 two things are my only to gripes and my actual score would be a 9.8 if the rating wasn't by point 
 fives. This is still a MUST-HAVE for anyone who likes games and isnt a one-sided fanboy. Pick it 
 up people! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nate64
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  After Super Mario Sunshine was released many fans were pretty disappointed that the game didn't 
 live up to the expectations set by Super Mario 64. Well fans can rest easy now because Super Mario 
 Galaxy lives up to those expectations and more. It is a game filled with beautiful, lush environments 
 and some of the most intuitive gameplay you'll find in a 3D platformer.
  The game starts off with Mario being invited up to the castle to receive a gift from Princess Peach 
 on the night of the star festival. The star festival is a celebration that takes place every hundred 
 years for a comet that passes by. So as you all might have guessed once Mario gets to the castle 
 Bowser comes and ruins the whole wonderful evening by picking Peach's castle right out of the ground 
 and when Mario tries to pursue he is cast out into space. This is all done with some of the most 
 gorgeous graphics you'll find on any Wii game by the way, and it definitely makes up for the opening 
 cutscene from Sunshine. Mario is then introduced to the beautiful Rosalina who gives Mario the 
 ability to spin attack, your basic form of attack throughout the entire game. After Mario learns 
 the basics of the game he is sent to the Comet Observatory, the game's hub world similar to Princess 
 Peach's castle from Super Mario 64, which has these domes that act as your portal to the different 
 galaxies. When you start off most of the observatory is out of power and you will need to retrieve 
 stars to bring the power back. There aren't just coins this time either there are these little 
 things called star bits which act as a form of currency throughout the game.
  As I mentioned earlier the game's graphics are absolutely incredible and are definitely the best 
 on the system to date. While Mario looks nearly perfect and his animations are as smooth as butter 
 the character that really shows off Galaxy's improved graphics is Bowser. The texture of his scaly 
 skin and his shell to the way his hair flows in the breeze, it is really a sight to behold for 
 Bowser has never looked so good. But the graphics go way beyond just animation and character models 
 because every environment you go to is beautiful with an amazing attention to detail not to mention 
 how very diverse the levels actually are. You'll go from a suspending water raceway to icy mountains 
 with a fiery center to running through space jumping from little planetoid to planetoid all of 
 which look amazing. To top that all off everything in this game happens without a hit to the framerate.
 
  In a lot of levels that you go to you will actually be running on these little spherical planetoids 
 where you can run all over them thanks to gravity. Now in Galaxy gravity plays a huge part in the 
 gameplay because this game will have Mario running sideways, upside down and every other direction, 
 and there are a good amount of puzzles that use the gravity aspect very well and make them pretty 
 tricky. While doing all this might sound disorienting it's handled very well and the controls are 
 incredibly intuitive and are rarely difficult. The controls involve moving Mario with the analog 
 stick, jumping with A and doing the spin attack by shaking the Wii remote, which is very responsive 
 and just about always works perfectly. In some places in the game you will hold the remote like 
 a joystick or straight out like a remote but they both work perfectly and are even pretty fun. 
 In Galaxy the camera is controlled on its own but you have a little control over it with the D-pad 
 and for the most part works very well but at the same time the camera is one of my only complaints. 
 It almost always positions itself in a good place but occasionally it gets stuck in a place where 
 you can't fix it and you can't see where you're going, but this is a minor complaint because it 
 doesn't happen too often. Another complaint that I had was that towards the end of the game a lot 
 of the galaxies just looks like rehashes of the first few galaxies, but they are different enough 
 for it to not really matter too much.
  The story in Super Mario Galaxy is about as deep as a Mario game can be, princess gets kidnapped 
 you have to save her, but it is done well nonetheless. Although that isn't the only aspect to this 
 games story, they actually get into the story about Rosalina which was one other poor addition 
 to the game. It's not that the story was bad on the contrary it was pretty interesting they just 
 went about telling it in an uninteresting way. It is told in a storybook fashion and you unlock 
 new chapters as you play, it's optional so if you don't want to hear it then you don't have to, 
 but they could have done so much more to give the player a little more incentive to want to hear 
 the story.
  Super Mario Galaxy's audio is probably some of the best Mario music yet; they have excellent new 
 music that keeps with the pace of the game very well and old music from past Mario games like the 
 original Super Mario Bros. and Super Mario Bros. 3. There is very limited voice acting; Mario has 
 his usual sounds that he makes but Peach and Rosalina both say a few things throughout the game 
 which isn't too bad, along with Bowser's grunts and roars. They have the normal coin collecting 
 chime which is nice but they also have great sound effects for Mario running on different surfaces 
 and the like.
  If you're new to Mario games then you'll be able to get through with 60 stars which will be pretty 
 easy but for the seasoned veterans who are going to want to go for all 120 stars, which I recommend 
 doing, the challenge definitely ramps up quite a bit. The game takes about 15 hours to complete 
 and has a ton of replayability, and even has a co-op mode that has the other player controlling 
 a cursor on the screen and helping to collect star bits.
  If you've been looking for a reason to buy a Wii then Super Mario Galaxy is it. You don't even 
 really have to be a Mario fan to enjoy this game, because not only is this the best 3D Mario game 
 ever it is the best 3D platformer ever.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sorthax
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is an amazingly FUN game. Each galaxy you travel to is more fun than the one 
 before it. Each boss fight is extremely fun, and increasingly challenging throughout. 
  
  The art, graphics and design of the game is extremely fun to play through and even just to watch. 
 Also, the music is beautifully orchestrated and is unique to each galaxy -- it is wonderful to listen 
 to.
  
  The coolest piece of this game was the gravity for me. The way you move mario from planet to planet, 
 or asteroid to asteroid is just a blast... they have thought of so many creative ways to do this...
 
  
  
  The game is just a blast, if you own a Wii you really shouldnt miss this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiistation360dl
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  A great Mario game with stellar graphics and amazing gameplay. A game you don't want to miss! I 
 played the game and it is relatively short, but I loved every second. I must say it's a relatively 
 easy game, but the graphics are amazing for a Mario game. Perfect in my opinion! I reccomend anyone 
 playing this game for any age, so young and old can play it. The controls are just fine, using 
 the Wii remote and nunchuck well but not totally overusing it. This game took me less than 10 hours 
 to beat. Nintendo has made a strong claim to success with this game. It's sure to be one great 
 hit. This could be the only reason you buy a Wii this year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greatskate182
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Finally, a reason for me to dust off my Wii, put the 360 aside, and enjoy a game for its incredible 
 gameplay and level design. Super Mario Galaxy reminds me off Mario 64... on steroids. Super Mario 
 Galaxy combines the genuine Mario feel with out-of-this world level design and physics. This review 
 does not need to be long because if you own a Wii, chances are you already own this game; and if 
 you don't, you should. The graphics are top-of-the-line for the Wii. The game uses the Wii-remote 
 but does not, in any way, abuse it. The controls are tight and the game provides plenty of classic 
 Mario moments and moments when you will be sweating on the edge of a giant cliff with a blackhole 
 in sight. The storyline is the typical Mario plot, but it works well.
  
  The only downside I can think of (and I have been thinking for a while) is that the game is too 
 easy. It is not hard to beat this game in two or three sittings, but finding all the stars does 
 add additional length.
  
  Overall, this is the Mario game we all have been waiting for since the flop of Mario Sunshine. 
 If you have a Wii, you need this game (but chances are you already knew that) .
  
  ~Mitch~
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keltany_Obligon
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Mario Galaxy is clearly one of the best Wii games out there. It contains some of the best levels 
 of any platformer I've ever played (which is a lot) , and it has some of the best graphics and sounds. 
 Firstly, the story in Mario Galaxy is short, typical and simple. Bowser kidnaps Peach (again) . 
 One thing that immediately stood out to me were some unique "racing/puzzle" levels where you control 
 Mario with touch-sensitive controls. These levels come 6 times in the game (2 levels for each style) 
 and are enjoyable when played alone or competing in a group. The later 3 are amped up versions 
 of of the first "training levels". Another thing that stood out was the obvious use of gravity 
 effects. I have to say the controls on asteroid-like planets are difficult, but only for the first 
 20-40 minutes. The gravity adds another layer to gaming. The suits that Mario uses are also fun 
 to use: Fire Mario, Ice Mario, Bee Mario, Spring Mario, Boo Mario, and Invincible Mario. They give 
 Mario abilities to maneuver that have clever controls. My only complaint is that the suits were 
 on a few levels, and almost always on one planet/galaxy. The Star-Bits used in the game are easy 
 to collect with the Wii remote, but I felt that the shooting function was not all that useful. 
 MY advice to those still playing the game: shoot as many as you can, don't worry too much about 
 collecting every one either, focus on Mario. The various level settings were cool (ocean, lava, 
 ice, etc.) . I also enjoyed the ability to choose which levels to complete when I wanted to. The 
 bosses in the game are fairly easy, and can usually be beaten in the first 2-6 tries. The co-op 
 mode in this game is pointless, as the second player serves as an invisible helper to Mario. 2 
 players can have fun if you alternate, because the game keeps track of how many coins (points) 
 you acquired for each level. There are very excellent soundtracks in the game that express its 
 various moods, and are fully-orchestrated. There were also good sound-effects. The graphics in 
 this game are 480p, but look very well-defined. The classic Mario moves are all back: triple jump, 
 long jump, back flip, crawl, and the side jump. Mario Galaxy is easily worth 50$ and 40-50 hours 
 of gameplay if you get all 120 stars. It is without a doubt the best Wii game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shutupthe3rd
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is truely a masterpiece, the graphics are great, the gameplay is excellent, and this 
 is one of the best games availible in market.
  
  This game has a difficulty level that is low enough for the most casual of gamers (or even little 
 kids) and high enough to satisfy the most hard-core of hard-core. Even though it could take less 
 than 6 hours to officially make it through the game, to collect all the power stars can be spent 
 with hours of playtime, especially since you need to collect all the power stars twice to get the 
 very last one in Grand Finale Galaxy. 
  
  What happened to playable Luigi that was promised a decade ago, when SM64 came out? He is playable, 
 after obtaining 120 stars, and required to obtain 121 stars. This game has so much replay value 
 you can enjoy it until Super Smash Brothers Brawl comes out, (maybe longer) so it will be much 
 worth the wait.
  
  The game does have its fair share of problems. Even though it has a camera that is (very scarily, 
 in fact) smartly following you all the time, and can even be manually turned, occasionally you'll 
 make a jump and assumably land, but then go flying into deep space. Also, the game has levels that 
 get harder one after another very smartly and balanced (besides the small, challenge oriented galaxies, 
 which are much tougher than the other levels) , but occasionally there are levels that are way different 
 than the ones around it, changing the pace in a bad way. Also, the plot is explained by "Mama" 
 reading from a storybook. It's a bad way to explain the plot, especially for Mario fans, for whom 
 it does a diservice for.
  
  Don't rush through this game in 30 hours. Just don't. You won't have fun doing it (except the bragging 
 rights it will earn you) and you'll complain about the game more. If you take your time and enjoy 
 the game through every step of the way, and then you will be extremely safisphied once you're finally 
 100% done. This can be a great game, if you're not the kind of person that just likes to brag about 
 how fast you can complete games, sheez!  _ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Popz3377
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is both crazy and amazing, its crazy because it so amazing! The game play is fantastic 
 and finnaly they have made a mario game worth being considered the sequel of Super Mario for N64. 
 Unlike the camera in the Super Mario for N64 you can actually see every thing with out constantly 
 moving your camera. They have finnaly made a game for the Wii with the perfect amount motion. If 
 you do not have this game get it!. If you beat it beat it agian because the story line never gets 
 old is platform is truly worth getting, and unlike previus Mario games this one has pretty good 
 graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmazoLK
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  The Mario Bros. series has always been the biggest franchise is Nintendo's illustrious history. 
 In the Nintendo 64 era, Nintendo decided to remake the Mario Bros. series, and take it in a different 
 direction in 3D. The result was Super Mario 64, and it is still considered one of the best games 
 ever created. Why was it so good though? What made it so special? Well, it was one of the first 
 3D platforming games ever, and it is still one of the most finely tuned. But what the hell does 
 this have to do with Super Mario Galaxy? Galaxy is not the sequel to Super Mario 64, but compared 
 the real sequel, Super Mario Sunshine, it really is the true sequel to Mario 64. It has the great 
 gameplay elements of Super Mario 64 without the stupid water backpack, and a great, and I mean 
 great gravity element. But is Super Mario Galaxy better than Mario 64, or even Sunshine for that 
 matter?
  
  Super Mario Galaxy takes place... Well, in space. But how does it get there? At the beginning of 
 the game, Mario is invited to Princess Peach's castle but on the way there, Bowser - not surprisingly 
 - shows up, and steals Peach's castle right out of the ground, pretty much like Paper Mario for 
 the N64. So what does Mario have to do? Well... Save her, again. But the opening cinema is something 
 to say, "wow" at. Compared to Super Mario Sunshine, it's just ridiculous. In Mario Sunshine, there 
 was absolutely no production value put into it, but in Mario Galaxy, they actually took time to 
 make it good, and oh, it's good. It just goes to show that even though the Wii is the least powerful 
 system on the market, it can still make some games look outstanding. The main Hub of Galaxy is 
 just an observatory where you go into a bunch of different rooms, and you launch to a galaxy with 
 a bunch of different planets. Each planet is like a painting in Mario 64, but they only start out 
 with 3 stars, instead of 7.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy plays like the other two 3D Mario games. A is jump, and if you jump three times 
 in a row, Mario does a triple-jump. The Z button is crouch, and pressing the jump button while 
 crouching will make Mario do a giant backwards flip. Pressing Z, then A again quickly will make 
 Mario do a long jump which is a necessity in Galaxy. The B button will make you shoot star shards, 
 which you collect in each level. There are a bunch of different things you can do with these shards, 
 like shooting enemies, feeding stars, and earning 1-Ups when you collect 100 of them. They have 
 basically replaced coins from the past Mario games, but coins are still there, and they replenish 
 your health. Your health is different in Galaxy also. Instead of having 8 things of health, you 
 now have only 3. And when you collect a certain mushroom, it will go to 6, but if you lose 3, you 
 will lose the extra 3. You can also do a new spin attack by shaking the Wii Remote side to side. 
 The camera system works pretty well for the most part, but can be a pain where you are upside-down, 
 and you want to turn the camera, and you can't. Turning the camera is used with the D-Pad on the 
 Wii Remote.
  
  But not only are the controls still amazing, but the new gravity elements, and some new Wii Control 
 elements are absolutely outstanding. First of all, the gravity is so superb, it makes you cry. 
 When you are on a planet, long jumping will make you jump out into the air, all the way out to 
 space, then back onto the planet again. But saying this in words is definitely not as good as footage 
 would be. This gravity is used pretty amazingly throughout the whole entire game. You'll just want 
 to jump off a planet, just to see what happens. During the development though, many thought the 
 game would just be a bunch of different little planets all mixed together, which is partly true, 
 but there still is those planets which are huge, sometimes bigger than a whole level in Super Mario 
 64. The Wii remote controls are use, pretty much, great. Sometimes you'll have to use it like a 
 flight stick to control Mario on a ball, and sometimes you might have to control him in a bubble 
 by blowing air at him making him go in that direction. This is really how the Wii Remote should 
 be used in Wii games, unlike some games where you hate having to use the Wii Remote and using the 
 classic controller instead.
  
  There are also many different kind of power-ups that Mario uses during the adventure, but not all 
 are so great. You can turn into a Bee, which you can fly shortly by holding the jump button, but 
 going into water will make the power-up disappear. You can also turn into a Ghost, and it will 
 make you able to go through walls by disappearing, and reappearing again. The Ice Mario is also 
 pretty unique. You turn into Ice, and walking across water will make it freeze. There's also the 
 classic flying Mario, like the flying cap in Mario 64, and Fire Mario with the white suit and all. 
 There is a very stupid, and very annoying to use power-up called Spring Mario. It's exactly what 
 it sounds like, Mario transforms into a spring. When you press the jump button, Mario will jump 
 really high, but controlling him normally is a pain in the ass, and I wish they made a better power-up 
 instead.
  
  There's also a bunch of different and unique boss battles that are just amazing. One of them you 
 have to use a boo-bomb to blow him apart, and one you have to use it's tail to beat its head. The 
 old school Mario enemies are also here with Goombas, Piranha Plants, and Koopas, but also some 
 new ones like these steel enemies that zap you with a laser. The spin attack usually kills them, 
 but jumping on them can still do the job. The star bits never kills a enemy, instead, it will knock 
 them out, and running into them will kill them. The level design is absolutely outstanding in Galaxy. 
 They range from a random bunch of mini-planets with their own unique theme, to a huge sand planet 
 with quick sand, and Pokey enemies everywhere. In the mini-planet levels, you complete the planets 
 by either collecting shards of a star, to killing a bunch of enemies. Once these tasks are done, 
 a launch star will appear, and by shaking the Wii Remote, it will blast Mario to the next planet, 
 and so on.
  
  Each planet looks amazing, and this is why Galaxy is definitely the best looking Wii games to date. 
 Mario Galaxy is probably the first game on the Wii where you wouldn't be able to do it on a Gamecube, 
 or an Xbox. Every planet is colourful, and every character model is well done. There are also some 
 nice technical elements like heat distortion, and shimmering water. It also runs at an awesome 
 60 frames per second, and never dips, ever. The sound is probably the strongest part of Galaxy, 
 and maybe one of the best soundtracks in a Nintendo game ever. Every planet has an epic theme in 
 the background, and never seem out of place. Unlike past games like Twilight Princess, Mario Galaxy 
 is orchestrated, and sounds amazing. The sounds are pretty great too with all of the yells of Mario, 
 and tiny bits of voice like Peach and Bowser. Still, there's still a lot of text to read, and can 
 sometimes get tiring to read again and again. I think it's time that Nintendo starts getting some 
 voice actors together and actually gets some nice voice work, because some games need it.
  
  Galaxy is not a short game, but that's if you decide you want to collect all 120 stars. You 
 only need 60 to actually face the final boss, and getting the first 60 starts does not take very 
 long, about 4 to 8 hours. But it takes a lot more time to collect the other 60, and the difficulty 
 will ramp up and up every inch. There are about 40 planets, and 4 for each galaxy with 2 being 
 big levels, and the other 2 being small levels with only one star to collect. You cam feed certain 
 stars scattered around the observatory, and it will lead you another planet with only one star 
 on it. Overall, the game isn't too hard, but you will die a lot, but not from an enemy or anything, 
 but mostly from missing a platform, or accidentally falling into lava and sand. There's also a 
 bunch of secrets like unlocking something after you collect all 120 stars.
  
  Overall though, Super Mario Galaxy is easily one of the best games of 2007, and one of the best 
 Mario games to date. The out-of-this-world level design, the outstanding artistic graphics, the 
 great audio, and the fun-as-hell gameplay makes Mario Galaxy stand out among one of the greatest 
 Nintendo games ever created. Galaxy is not perfect though, the replay value is small, some power-ups 
 are sort of stupid and pointless, and some stars are far to easy to get, but even with these flaws, 
 Super Mario Galaxy is finally the true successor to Super Mario 64 that we needed, and it is finally 
 here. Enjoy it if you have a Wii, it is truly incredible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Richterman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Once again Bowser and mostly familiar characters are back again in this Mario installment. Yes, 
 Bowser kidnaps Peach but hey it does not get old for me. I enjoyed kicking father-son butt, as 
 Bowser Jr. is in the game, and I liked most of the characters you had to fight/come across while 
 in the game.
  
  This game plays incredibly, the controls with the Wii-mote are fun and easy to use; there are some 
 moves that require movement of the mote and some just pushing buttons. The first cut-scene wowed 
 me, the graphics look great on the wii for this game. At first the levels are pretty fun but as 
 you progess some are pretty difficult. The good thing is you only need 60 stars to get to the center 
 of the universe to save Peach to beat the game. This is what I did but I still plan to go back 
 and get the rest of the stars, how many are there? I found most of the levels enjoyable; especially 
 the hard ones. And only a few levels are not fun since they become so frusturating.
  
  Finally, the idea of a flying Mario is pretty cool and in some parts of the game you are able to 
 control your flight path. Graphics are pretty good although it gets grainy whenever Mario would 
 fall into water for the first second, but I do not know if this will change once I get the composite 
 Wii cord. I thought the music for this game was incredible and at some points it reminded me of 
 one of the Superman movies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS360Fanboy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  I'd be amazed if someone actually reads this review, after all, this is a main series Mario game- 
 who isn't just going to go out there and buy it? It's quite impressive then, with Nintendo fully 
 aware of this fact that they will continue to put all of their effort into a game that will just 
 fly off of the shelves no matter what. 
  
  To begin with, I shall start on the negative: 
  This isn't the best Mario game. It isn't far 
 off, but I feel some reviewers have been a tad too generous. Unfortunately, in my opinion, it is 
 not as good as Mario 64. 
  
  Ok, so why not? To begin with, do you remember when you first set foot in the castle grounds of 
 Mario 64? How you had this huge area with things to do, hidden stars and just general messing about 
 for when you couldn't be bothered to play the actual game? Mario Galaxy doesn't have this sort 
 of thing, which is a shame as it detracts some of the charm from the overall experience. To someone 
 reading about this fact without having actually played the game it may seem a tad petty, but when 
 playing the game it is just a shame to not be able to just waste away a few more hours of your 
 life doing nothing in particular as has been possible withal the 3D Mario games. Even Mario Sunshine. 
 Wait. Are there any others? 
  
  The second reason it isn't as good is that the there is no way to alter the camera angle, and this 
 is an absolutely huge issue for me particularly with the new incorporation of the *ponders term* 
 3D effect... (?) It makes certain sections truly aggravating, but also seems to be what causes the 
 only difficulty within the game. It seems reliant upon cutting down your viewing angle in order 
 to create a challenge. 
  
  The third and final negative point is that the level design is incredibly linear. There is very 
 little to each level, with, as I said before, a huge reliance on camera angles to make a challenge. 
 The majority of the game you will find yourself running around a planet in order to avoid a bullet-bill, 
 or just simply collecting the 5 pieces of a star to throw you into the next, almost identical part 
 of the level. There are a few truly stellar levels however that are huge and take a different stance 
 to the rest of the game. Unfortunately, however, these levels are generally at the start of the 
 game and serve as an introduction. 
  
  I sound immensely negative, but that is just the way I review. Super Mario Galaxy is in fact a 
 fantastic game, as you can see from not only the number of Points I gave it, but also the title 
 of the review. Graphically, the game is splendid. It puts all of the other Wii games released to 
 date to shame, and although not quite up to current gen standards (Xbox 360 minimum) it is good 
 to see the old Ninty tradition of actually pushing a console to its limits is still occurring. 
 The game is actually not that much more graphically impressive than the GameCube Mario instalment, 
 Super Mario Sunshine. That isn't a bad thing. This prequel was a fantastic looking game, and although 
 Galaxy is much, much more polished in visuals, much of the graphical style remains the same, and 
 I'm damn pleased too. It has a tremendous sense of nostalgia, but also truly adds to the "pick-up-and-play-ability". 
 
  
  The game is very easy, and doesn't offer up much of a challenge. Occasionally you will die, and 
 get Game Over, but only if you are careless. Its generally as straight forward as it looks and 
 this is in no way a complaint. Too many games these days are going for the "I like a challenge" 
 front. Mario Galaxy is genuinely easy, but adds a huge variety of levels (although all similar 
 in game play style) and has one heck of a lot of them too. It gives you very little time to get 
 bored and to be honest; despite offering very little challenge it is 100% fun. It really is just 
 that simple. 
  
  As for storyline and music- this is Mario. The same themes will be played repeatedly throughout 
 the game that have been for the last 20 odd years. They have obviously been enhanced and altered 
 for the latest instalment, but not to make them unfamiliar. Again, there is nothing wrong with 
 this. The songs have and always will be great, and despite being totally recognisable they compliment 
 the game to a huge extent. Voice-overs (with the exception of Mario) are grating though. Just be 
 thankful that the terrible voice actors and abysmal lip syncing are only included in about 2 minutes 
 of the 15 hour game. Storyline, to be quite honest is also poor. But it's better than any other 
 Mario game. Ever. It has about as much depth as that puddle at the end of your driveway- but does 
 it really bother you? It's Mario! If it were in anyway deep we wouldn't play it, right? 
  
  SO let's recap: 
  The game is fantastic when viewed as a game on its own. It may not be quite 
 as much fun as Mario 64, but it's a game made with 100% fun and innovation in mind. And this is 
 how we should look at it. What the designers have set out to do, they have obviously achieved to 
 a superb extent. Mario has once again been truly marvellous, and hats, or caps of to Nintendo for 
 that! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicholaspolizzi
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  The game is awesome it is the best game I ever played 10 out of 10 rating. It was a little short, 
 but one thing makes up for it, P. S. I'll tell the secret to you later. The boss fights are great, 
 the gravity is great, the levels are great, but the best of all is the power-ups which include 
 the fire flower, ice flower, spring shroom, the bee shroom, the boo shroom, and the red star flying 
 suit. My favorite power is all of them. Now for the two Super Mario Galaxy super secrets. Luigi 
 un-lockable=get 120 stars with mario. Secret number 2 Grand Finale Galaxy=get 120 stars with Luigi. 
 Great game get before they run out. P. S Don't break your remote over losing luigi's purple coin 
 (hardest level in tha game) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yourbeliefs
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is nothing short of amazing. It has everything you want in a Mario game: Unique worlds, 
 lots of secrets, easy to handle controls, and reasons to come back for more. More similar to Mario 
 64 than Sunshine, the various "worlds" are unique and the planets concept was a smart step for 
 the series. Unlike 64, which had basically 15-20 worlds, this has multiple worlds that don't focus 
 so much on getting 8 stars, but has more attainable goals and even 1-shot planets, but it all adds 
 to the variety.
  There's really no reason to not get this game, unless you have no arms, in which case having a 
 Wii seems rather futile. I didn't give this a 10 because I don't think any game can be perfect, 
 but lord knows that this is a fun ride that you will not soon forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harsadi
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  
  Without any doubts I declare this game to be one of the greatest ever created. As of now it is 
 ranked at number 2 in GameRankings. com right below The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time. No one 
 seems to want to re-invent the platforming game and this is the reason why many gamers have turned 
 their backs on platformers until SMG was released. Miyamoto is the only man who would dare to revolutionize 
 how a platformer should play in today's gaming world. It is totally immersive and fun, this is 
 something very special that no fans of video games should miss out. I believe SMG is the best true 
 Mario game to date I played it and it did not dissapoint it surpassed my expectations. I've been 
 a long time Mario fan any characters Nintendo has created is a nice touch for Mario. No other game 
 developers could do that at the moment. That would soon change I suppose, it is time for game developers 
 to wake up and follow what Nintendo has done to create memorable games that is pure un adulterated 
 fun any one any where can play. Thank you Nintendo for Super Mario Galaxy ! Looking forward for 
 next epic Mario adventure in the future hopefully not too long from now, I want to new Mario platformer 
 to come out at least withing a 3 year span, 5 years is too long! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danishahmed
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay of super mario galaxy is great and also the game isn't half bad ether. The game shows 
 minible refleces the game is more longer then super mario 64 and more funner. The best thing I 
 like about it is the adventure it can be cool but some of it is lame, There are also some star 
 that unlock new galaxys and if you can find three green luma's you can go to a harder galaxy so 
 hard even i couldn't do it. But there's something you need to now at the final grand star it isn't 
 the end a new plant apers. But for you to go on this plant you need 120 power stars including all 
 grand stars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavidBeoulve
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  This is the most played Wii game we have (I have 3 daughters and a baby boy who all play after 
 chores are done when I get home from work) .
  
  The controls to this game make it fun, the scenery, the different galaxies that work similarly 
 to each other but different enough to feel like something new.
  
  2 player is great fun, indispensable, because they can lock down enemies, bullets, collect stars 
 and interact with the environment that a single player can't, even if they aim the Wiimote.
  
  It's a game for me, a 31 year old gamer (as of 2007) who's been at it since the Atari 2600 
 and IBM XT, it's a game for my 8yo daughter (my 10yo daughter prefers being my second player) and 
 my 5yo daughter (she's my 8yo daughter's 2nd player) ...
  
  I've never seen a game work for such a wide age group.
  
  There's really not much to add to 
 the 234+ reviews for this game - it really is that good. Go get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevo1000
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  Good: 
  -Wonderful presentation
  -Best graphics on the Wii yet
  -All characters and objects are filled to the brim with character
  -Incredible soundtrack the 
 orchestra music brings the game alive even more
  -Immersive gameplay, a vast array of levels are filled with colour and look sublime
  -The way 
 the physics work when you jump from planetoid to planetoid is easy and brilliantly done
  -Collecting 'star bits' is fun and innotive
  -Quite simply one of the finest video games ever 
 made
  
  Bad:
  -Lack of a storyline it could be said
  -The co-op mode is a real letdown and totally uninspired and is completely out of place with the 
 singleplayer mode
  -Minor issues with the camera most of the time its pretty much fine though
  -Collecting stars 
 after getting the 60 stars can be boring and repetitive
  -Some of the transformations don't work well which is a real a shame
  -No voice-acting can be 
 considered as a missed opportunity
  -Sometimes it can get frustrating as you can die through no fault of your own
  
  
  
  Super 
 Mario Galaxy really is the true sequel to Super Mario 64. Yes we've had to wait just over 10 years 
 for Super Mario Galaxy (Or Super Mario 128 it should be said) but its worth it as the game delivers. 
 It delivers everything which you expect from a real Mario platformer. I'm not the greatest fan 
 of Mario, I've tried playing Mario 64, however I understood it was good, but the game just didn't 
 click with me and I couldn't be asked completing the game. Mainly the graphics was why I didn't 
 like it, but Mario Galaxy is different, it has the wonderful graphics, definitely the best on the 
 Wii and to be honest the first game which is really pushing the Wii to the max of what it can do 
 rather than a game with no-frill graphics or no real presentation quality, almost as if the developer 
 thought that aren't essential for the Wii. Lets put it this way, Super Mario Galaxy is Super Mario 
 64, but in space and thoroughly better than its prequel. Mario Galaxy might not be a revolution 
 like Super Mario 64 was with its 3-D graphics, the first video game which really cracked 3-D gameplay. 
 Mario Galaxy is not a revolutionary game, but is just doesn't need to be because of just how unbelievably 
 good the game is.
  
  The soundtrack and sound effects are something to be admired. The orchestra adds so much to the 
 games whole feeling and tone. Super Mario 64 had sound and music, but only a handful of songs were 
 ever any good by matching the surrounding and making the game feeling atmospheric. And of course 
 they weren't of the greatest quality, so what better quality than a live orchestra providing the 
 music? More so, if the music not good enough the sound effects are even better, Mario always seems 
 to make noises that trademark Mario coin jingle never sounded so smooth and brilliant. Also there 
 are a wide variety of music and noises which the characters make. I'd give 10 out of 10 for sound 
 it really is that impressive and atmospheric as your immersed with the gameplay. 
  
  If your a proper, real hardcore Mario fan who likes to complete Mario games fully and have been 
 an avid fan of the series since it began, you'll probably have some initial worries beforehand 
 about the games difficulty. Miyamoto said he wanted the game to be playable for everyone; he's 
 partially done that to be honest. To complete the game you need to get 60 stars, then the story 
 will virtually finished. Getting the first 40 stars is pretty much a piece of cake, even for me 
 who isn't really an experienced Mario player. Then when you edge to 60 stars it starts to get tricky 
 a little bit more, as your trying to search for some last remaining stars to get to the final boss. 
 Of course you can play on after getting 60 stars as your really only technically half-way through 
 the game as there is 120 to collect. But after the 60 stars, that's when it starts to get tough 
 and can present a challenge for quite a few players, experienced Mario fans will have there work 
 cut out to get the last remaining stars. In my view everyone's a winner, the first 60 stars are 
 pretty much straight forward then the next 60 are tough. The beginners will be able to complete 
 the game by getting 60 stars then the experienced Mario fan can go for the 120 stars to fully complete 
 the game. The only problem is with searching for more stars is that it can often seem dull and 
 repetitive collecting 100 purple coins from a lot of levels can get tedious and repetitive, too 
 repetitive in my opinion. Never-the-less the difficulty level is fair in my view and seemed to 
 aimed at casual gamers and hardcore gamers might have to graft hard to get the remaining stars 
 they could be struggling to get, so everyone can get a piece of the action.
  
  The gameplay is where the game excels. The essence of Mario is always in Galaxy throughout the 
 whole game. It has everything a Mario game should and is expected to have. It really is just Mario 
 at his finest. Even hardcore gamers will notice throwbacks to previous Mario games in Galaxy that 
 will remind them of Super Mario Bros or Super Mario 64 too. Whats strange is that the Wii Remote 
 really isn't used that much in different ways. A lot of the actions you perform with the remote 
 will just require you to give the remote a brisk shake, rather than a different and advanced action 
 with the Wii-remote like ones in mini-games like Warioware Smooth Moves. The nunchuk's acceletrometer 
 is never used once in the whole game, only to move Mario with the analog stick and to make Mario 
 kneel or to re-focus the camera angle. Even though the remote isn't used in many different ways 
 it doesn't deter you from the fact that the gameplay is inspired. The remote and nunchuk combination 
 makes the Mario series appear and feel totally refreshed, which is what it needed after the average 
 game that was Mario Sunshine. The controls revitalize the whole Mario genre and rejuvenates Mario 
 as the best platformer series around.
  
  The game is clever and astute in a way that the game works brilliantly when your travel from planet 
 to planet and go upside down underneath a planetoid. The camera works excellently. I'd really can't 
 imagine it being easy to program a camera which always follows Mario around, especially when you 
 upside down. As I said the camera is excellent for most of the time, sometimes the camera will 
 not turn to where you want it to be or ideally where it should be in the first place. One of the 
 new little features they've introduced is 'star bits'. Basically all you do as your playing is 
 collect the 'star bits' with the remote's pointer on screen. Star Bit can be smashed out of enemies, 
 be in patterns on objects or in the air or they can just come from meteors with disclose bits, 
 normally 3 star bits. The effortless feature is intuitive in my view and helps give you something 
 else to do while playing the levels, and keep an eye out for loose star bits. Its also important 
 to collect these star bits as you'll need to feed them to 'Lumas' who unlock certain levels, galaxies 
 and planetoids if you feed them the requested amount of 'star bits' you've collected.
  
  There is a multiplayer mode, to be exact a co-op mode, but it really is barely that as only one 
 player gets to control Mario and the other collects star bits and can hinder the player progress 
 with Mario by using the pointer to put him off. But it just doesn't take anything from the fact 
 it isn't a co-operative mode and that it really is a dreadful option which the game would do better 
 without it. I can't help myself from having a go at Nintendo for putting such a poor designed feature 
 in, which just feels incomplete and broken. It feels unpolished and out of place with the single 
 player mode, Miyamato should have left the co-op feature out or made a better one instead which 
 matched the magic of the single player mode experience in Galaxy.
  
  The co-op feature is the worst thing in Galaxy a major complaint. However every other problem I 
 found with the game were very minor except this co=op mode disaster. I had to dig deep to find 
 any little problem with the game to be honest. It's barely a co-op mode and I was surprised Miyamoto 
 left it in the game. Some of the transformations just don't work very well. I'm not going to give 
 away the transformations as I don't want to give spoilers away in the review. You'll know about 
 the Bee Mario and Boo Mario transformation by now, if you haven't then I imagine you've been hibernating 
 for the last 4 months or you've done very well ignoring all the Mario Galaxy hype and information. 
 Those 2 transformations work brilliantly, however there are a couple of other Mario conversions 
 which are very tricky to control and very much pointless. But I'm sure some Mario fans like them, 
 but not me I'm afraid.
  
  You'll discover and probably be saddened to notice the storyline feels almost as if you've thought 
 of a story but you haven't re-drafted it. Galaxy's is like that, its too brief. Luckily enough 
 a Mario story is not too vital unlike other games like Halo which thrive of an interesting story. 
 But Galaxy's is very much a lackluster and incomplete. They'll be a library in the game, in the 
 observatory to be precise which is the hub or home even for Mario for all the game. However there 
 are just little illustrations which are well drawn, but the whole concept of sitting there looking 
 at the pictures and reading the story which goes with it is somewhat stupid, stodgy, stale and 
 spiritless. There aren't that many cutscenes to do with the story either, only a couple were in 
 the whole game and took pretty long, but they do look gorgeous and overall terrific. The game can 
 also be irritating and frustrating if you have one of those moments in a platforming game where 
 you just can't get the star or if you just press the wrong button on the analog stick or remote 
 and you die by falling off or an enemy kills you as a result of the game. But that's a Mario game 
 I guess. No voice-acting could be considered as a missed opportunity too, but would the game be 
 better if there was voice-acting? Or would it be dreadful and just overall be a mess? We'll never 
 know I guess.
  
  
  All this moaning doesn't take from the fact the game is just a masterpiece throughout, the good 
 outweighs the bad by a massive margin. Mario Galaxy is probably the best platformer ever made. 
 Mario 64 was a great platformer because it was the first of its genre and in 3-D. Galaxy will never 
 match the legacy, but it deserves to be considered better than Super Mario 64. It is quite simply 
 one of the best games ever, and if you have a Wii you should get it now. Even if you don't like 
 Mario or platforming games just give it a chance like I did and you'll discover what an extraordinary 
 game Mario Galaxy is. And by the way I've just noticed you haven't technically completed the game 
 when you get 120 stars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrincessSamus
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  Holy Christ!! This game is defies the laws of gaming. This is too good for its own good. Nintendo 
 has really brought out the big guns now. Now i see why this game is now the highest rating game 
 of all time, beating ocarina of time by nearly 1% out of all game critics. Now THAT is saying something 
 because Ocarina of Time IS the greatest game of all time ... or is it now? heh heh. Well, there 
 is only one way for you guys to find out. Go and buy this game because I am not describing it to 
 you. If i do, I will end up crying because i will realize that i am wasting time typing this review 
 instead of playing it!! MY overall score 11/10 = Fantastically, superbly, flawlessly, awesomely, 
 beautifuly, Powerfully, Addictively,  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeffNipples
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Amazing game, Mario back to being top dog. Rarely points of the game I had trouble with controls 
 but game is great. The graphics in this game as far as I'm concerned blow away anything else on 
 the wii to date. Overall the game had easy good controls. Multiple different worlds to play in, 
 commits that alter game play and many other perks add spice to this already great game. Fun fairly 
 easy tasks with hard tasks scattered throughout for people that want to master the game make it 
 fun for players of all ages and skill levels. This is by far my favorite game so far that has dropped 
 for the wii. A+ game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cap_z
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  yes Mario galaxy is different from the other mario games I played expect sunshine. Me personally 
 I liked Sunshine a little better just sightly because sunshine was different for me. I never really 
 played super mario 64 so I don't know. Plus sunshine was harder then mario galaxy. Expect of fighting 
 bowser. He was far to easy on sunshine, but mario galaxy is better than sunshine by a lot. Sunshine 
 started off very slow weird and boring and stupid. But as I played it , it got better, until the 
 end. But mario galaxy didn't start off slow . Plus the first fight with bowser is simple but so 
 dynamic maybe because of the music. I like how when you burn bowser's tail he starts to run and 
 that powerful climatic music starts to hit OHH I love it , Mario Galaxy has great music that's 
 beautiful and enjoyable. The game is very creative with the comets and serect stars and green stars. 
 But what got me was the lovely tastiful graphics that melts in our mouth. ( I sound real fat right 
 now) The graphics are beautiful It's the first real next-gen game I've played and the it has the 
 best look I have seen. However it' to simple, fun on most levels. But simple and not challenging. 
 I'm use to run and gun on Ratchet and Clank or destroying my brain on zelda. But like I said earlier 
 it's a mario game and that's what mario does baby. Even though I might enjoy that old super mario 
 64 better and I loved super mario world 1 and 2. I wish they would make a 4th one not super mario 
 world 3 Aka (warioland, good game but) so yeah that's it but it looks good, it feels good, and it 
 sounds good and yes it is a work of art. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bowserulz
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Well... what can I say? When I first heard of this game I wasn't exactly extatic, but take it from 
 me this game is a "MUST HAVE" for any Wii owner. The graphics, to me, are pretty sharp. The level 
 design is awesome. It has many foes which include old enemies such as Goombas, Koopas, Boos, ect 
 and new enemies to the Mario series. Once again Bowser is the main villan and along by his side 
 is the pesky Bowser Jr. and Peach is once again kidnapped. I know real shocker. right? So... as 
 I was saying the music for this game really plays an important part because I feel that every great 
 game needs great music. It has songs from Super Mario Bros, Super Mario Bros 3, and many others. 
 There are boss battles that are very challenging and some that are a snap. In order to fully understand 
 this game you need not to be reading these reviews, but actually taking this game for a spin. That 
 concludes my 1st review EVER :) and if you have the money and a Wii then you have to get this game 
 it is absolutely amazing. goodbye |) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FvaFshX
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Ok before I get into the review, let me offer a bit of my mario background. Like many others, I 
 loved the 2D installments to death. However, the transition to 3d hasn't been as smooth for me. 
 I truly repect what Mario 64 brought to the table, but the camera, vague star hints, and small 
 amount of repeating levels decreased my enjoyment. Additionally, I skipped out on Mario Sunshine 
 altogether because of numerous player and review complaints. So when Mario Galaxy was announced, 
 I didn't have the same enthusiasm as many other Wii owners. However, I decided to give the game 
 a chance because of its high praise and I needed some kind of Wii activity. From the moment the 
 game started, I knew Nintendo had won me back and made me a Mario fan once again.
  Instead of focusing on the long list of praise that has already been sung in countless other reviews, 
 I'm going to focus instead on what the game has improved on for those who (like myself) are more 
 fond of the old mario games. From a presentation standpoint, the game is incredible. Menu's are 
 simple and easy to navigate and the controls are all explained expertly so theres virtually no 
 learning curve whatsoever. Also, the camera has finally been pulled back which gives a greater 
 view of the levels. As a result, you can focus more on navigating mario as opposed to finding the 
 best viewpoint. In fact, for virtually all of the main missions you will never have to adjust the 
 camera at all aside from going to first person occassionally. As far as the grapics go, they are 
 simply stunning in every aspect. Sending Mario through a launch star never got old as constellations 
 danced in the background and star bits (the game's currency) floated around waiting to be collected. 
 There are a couple effects which are a bit lacking compared to other Nintendo games such as the 
 fire and water, but it is a very small nitpick against what is otherwise an amazing package. 
 
  The key to any Mario game is the gameplay and this title truly "shines" compared to any previous 
 installment (get it heh heh.... eh) . The controls transition beautifully to the Wii using just the 
 right amount of motion control. The objectives for each star are clearly stated before the level 
 and getting there is always a joy because the objectives are quite varied. For the 60 stars needed 
 to complete the game, you will never encounter any annoying red coin levels or timed quests but 
 the water levels still need some polish for future installments. There are harder challenges availible 
 should you choose to go for all 120 stars but they're never as daunting as they were before. One 
 of my favorite additions is the return of actual 2D sections (that resemble the DS's New Super 
 Mario Bros.) taken to a new level thanks to the changing gravity elements. The difficulty might 
 seem easy to those who braved the annoyances of the previous installments, and the game is definitely 
 easier than all of the 2d installments. However, this is far from a negative thing because not 
 only does it make the game more accessible for newcomers, it gives you a better appreciation for 
 the stellar art direction and level design. Ever play an amazing level that loses its luster because 
 you're forced to repeat it a dozen times? You won't experience that here. 
  In spite of all the praise, no game is perfect and there are a couple of gripes I have overall. 
 For one thing, I know Mario games aren't known for their story lines, but it's about time for Nintendo 
 to do SOMETHING different. Not saying they should put a gun in Mario's hand and make him fight 
 aliens, but we've been rescuing princess peach for well over 20 years now. Zelda still maintains 
 the triforce and Ganon but at least there are some changes here and there such as Zant, the Twilight 
 Realm, and a different villain in the Minish Cap. The story element involving Rosalina is a nice 
 addition, but its nothing deep or major. My other complaint relates to trying to collect 120 stars. 
 At 104 stars, you have to finish the last level then go back and do 15 Purple coin levels. Not 
 only would I rather do all my collecting before the final show down, but the purple coin levels 
 become quite a drag when theres 15 of them in a row. The levels aren't bad by any means, they would 
 have just been alot more enjoyable if Nintendo found a way to sprinkle them throughout the main 
 quest instead of lumping it in one stretch of time (It actually gave me flashbacks to the pace-killing 
 triforce/rupee hunt in The Wind Waker) . Even more baffling is you have to do the last level over 
 again after you finally collect all 120 stars which really takes the impact away from the final 
 confrontation. 
  Overall, the game is truly a work of art and definitely belongs in every Wii owners library. It 
 takes standard platforming to a whole new level and sets an almost insurmontable bar for not only 
 future Mario titles, but future platformers in general. I invested 29 hours in the game total and 
 enjoyed every minute of it; and this is from a guy who never cared too much for previous 3d mario 
 games. In the end, not only did this game take its place as my favorite platformer of all time 
 (usurping the first Jak and Daxter) , it truly is one of the best games I've played in a decade. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioMellow
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  In a year full of high quality game releases, it was going to be hard for Mario to stand a chance. 
 Yet, not only did he meet them he has beat them. Now I've played Halo 3, Assasins Creed, Bioshock... 
 etc all the "hard core" great games. Yet my favorite... is this one. The sense of adventure in 
 this game is what makes it so much better then the rest. You don't know what you're going to discover 
 next. It may appear random and it is but its random is such a intricate way that its amazing. A 
 feature only Mario could pull off successfully. The level design is genuis. The visuals are beautiful. 
 The game play is perfect. The difficulty is just right. The replay value is almost endless. I've 
 beaten the main story but now want to go back and get ever star just to see what I missed. It doesn't 
 have much of a multiplayer mode but what it offers its pretty neat. This should, if you ask me.. 
 win game of the year. Its Super Mario 64, on a great scale, better visuals and better controls. 
 Mario has seriously showed up his "hard-core" rivals. Master Chief, Solid Snake, and so forth and 
 so on can only scratch their heads and wonder... "How does he do it?" End of story. Super Mario 
 Galaxy is the game to play this year if you play no other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aladd04
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  I don't know where to start, this game is just plain brilliant! Ok, where to start.....
  
  Graphics: It's graphics are the best that i've ever seen on the Wii. Usually it takes a few years 
 before a system can get going and finaly see some graphics worth while. But after just 1 year we 
 see the best graphics that you wll be seeing on the Wii in its life span. They are extremely beatiful 
 and colorful. Everything looks brought to life and runs perfectly with the gameplay. 10/10
  
  Gameplay: Here is where the game comes at its best. The controls are literally perfect for 
 this game, not a single flaw! I don't think there was a single time where i got frustrated because 
 I was hitting the wrong button or mario wasn't doing what I wanted him to do. Now the story on 
 this game is just a classic, Peach gets stolen by bowser and you have to save her. The camera in 
 this game follows you pretty well most of the game, but there are a few parts where you may be 
 running one way and then a chain chomp or a boulder will come out of no where and you will die, 
 turn of the game and call it a piece of crap, but besides that the game kicks ass! O, the gravity, 
 that is the one feature about the game that makes it so unique. You will bge playing this game 
 upside down and sideways all the time and it makes it a bit more challenging. Because when you 
 are in those positions it is normally hard to steer mario, but once you get used to it then you 
 should have no problem at all. The movements when mario attacks or jumps are very fluid and arn't 
 choppy at all like in older mario games which helps make this game look so beatiful.
  
  Gameplay Part 2: I'm gonna make another section continuing the last one since it was getting kinda 
 long. Well in the game there are 120 stars overall and with the "Suprise" once u beat the game 
 then there are 121 stars with it. There are somewhere around like 40 galaxies i'm guessing and 
 a majority of them have 1 star. But the main galaxies have 6-7 stars in them. 1 thing i enjoyed 
 about this game is that it is a mix of exploring and linear levels. In some galaxies each star 
 is like a whole new level so u don't get bored of the same stuff. But other levels are a huge level 
 that requires some exploring to find everything. The whole game isn't just playing sideways and 
 upside down though, some levels you will be flying from planet to planet doing all these wild things 
 in space with gravity while others you will be on a normal flat level exploring trying to find 
 the stars. Either way its near impossible to get bored of this game. 9.9/10
  
  Sound: The songs are different in almost every level so you won't get bored of the same songs. 
 They have a variety of new songs but at the same time they kept the classics. They get really addicting 
 and you will end up catching yourself humming them as you play along. The sounds that mario makes 
 as he jumps and attacks is perfect with the movement. 10/10
  
  Conclusion: This game is damn beatiful and is a REAL must-have game for every Wii owner. I don't 
 care if you despise mario, because this game would go perfect with any other big character. After 
 just 1 year of being released the Wii brought it's number 1 game during its lifespan. And I guarentee 
 that no other game will look better than this game, not even SSBB. Well that's it for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CJcoolJ
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is really out of this world. Everything about this game from it's ingenious 
 gameplay mechanics to it's amazing graphics are outstanding, not to mention Mario's new and great 
 forms like Bee Mario and Boo Mario. What I found most fun about this game was the gravity. In some 
 planets the gravity shifts about every 10 to 15 steps. It might be kind of hard but once you are 
 used to it, it is pretty fun. The graphics of this game are overwhelming. I lost count of the number 
 of people that told me it was like a PS3's graphics. I have to say that I agree with that. I don't 
 even use HD but this game looks great on almost any TV. This is currently the best game on the 
 Wii and probably one of the best out right now. Everyone should own this game because it will always 
 be remembered as a classic as we remember Super Mario 64 and The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time. 
 Super Mario Galaxy is a simply remarkable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  I picked up Super Mario Galaxy because I needed a game that was kid friendly for my Wii and I didn't 
 want something that was going to bore me to death.
  
  SMG is definitely a fun game. The story revolves around a Comet that comes to Mushroom land every 
 100 years and of course Bowser hi jacks it with the plan to take over the universe.
  
  Your job is to go to the different galaxies and collect stars. The more stars you collect the more 
 worlds and galaxies you can unlock to explore. Most of the worlds are pretty different from each 
 other and have multiple stars that you can collect on them. Most of the stars are attainable by 
 getting to the end of the level or completing a task for the level your exploring. This is broken 
 up by some sub-boss battles that are sprinkled throughout the games levels in no particular order. 
 And while the sub-bosses are fun, they are not that challenging and I wish there were more of them 
 in the game.
  
  To unlock new galaxies you have to collect a Grand Star which is always located with either Bowser 
 or Bowser Jr. on the planet furthest from the sun in each galaxy. Now what I mentioned about the 
 sub-boss battles is also true for most of battles with Bowser. They are a lot of fun but not that 
 challenging.
  
  The gameplay and concept took some getting use to since you are running around miniature worlds 
 so you will find yourself upsdie down a lot. For the most part the camera does a good job of staying 
 on your back and following you, but there were times where I felt disoriented by the angle of the 
 camera.
  
  The art design was actually pretty good and while its nothing compared to the graphics on a PC 
 or other next gen console, it is definitely one of the best looking games I have seen on the Wii. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: space_ace27
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  I did the same as probably most people. Watched the gamespot video review, read reviews and looked 
 at game footage. None of these can simply do this game justice. 
  
  I was worried about the controls, the planets thing looked confusing and not much fun. This is 
 absolutely the complete opposite.
  
  The whole planet thing is actually awesome. Clear one and zoom onto the next. You can go back and 
 forth and the thing is you will want to. There's plenty of puzzles even for Mario veterans.
  
  The controls are perfect, the storyline great, graphics beautiful and the sound sweet.
  
 
  Buy this game now, and if you don't own a Wii, buy one now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hippi92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 5:44 am PT
Review:  this is it. this is the game we have been waiting for. super mario galaxy works on the same principal 
 as super mario 64, you're the little Italian plumber we all know and love, who tries to save the 
 princess by collecting power stars (wow, big surprise) . Only this time, there's a twist;
  he's in space, all the time.
  
  Mario has a lot of the same moves that he had in Mario 64, 
 including the long jump and the backflip. but he can't punch and kick the way he used to though. 
 Now he's spinning with his fists to destroy his enemies. the game is pretty easy to beat though. 
 the graphics are the best I've seen yet on the WII.
  
  Overall:
  this is the game of the year, no question, if you don't have it, BUY IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srx5171
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Don't Read, Play! Awesome level design, great controls, and just as good as Super Mario 64! Definitely 
 one of the best Mario games to date. And one of the if not the best game on the Wii. This is a 
 must have for any Wii owner, and a must have for any gamer. Period. The setting in the galaxy is 
 great, it works in it's own Mario way. The levels don't seem spars or uninspired as it may seem 
 by some simple screen shots. Also the Puzzles involved with gravity of each little "planet" is 
 a great addition to level design. Can make some dizzy though! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefanatic7207
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game its a blast to play my only real gripe about it is that its still the same formula 
 that we have played since Mario 64. Thats not exactly a terrible thing Mario 64 was a great game 
 but i feel Mario games are starting to get stale.... its always collecting stars.... thats all you 
 do. I felt that Nintendo had a opportunity to make some more innovation with the Mario formula 
 on wii. So over all I'm slightly disappointed but that doesn't mean this game isn't great. Its 
 still really fun and is by far the best looking wii game out there. A must buy for any wii owner. 
 Seriously if you don't have it already go get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goku234
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  First 
  This game looks beautifully 
  its awesome 
  really good controls
  pretty
  If you have a Wii go and buy this game NOW
  its kinda short ...
  but for me it doesnt matter
 
  for me this is the best buy since Sonic Adventure for The Dreamcast 
  you be blown away with its beauty ...
  and Mario ...
  Its funny its what I expected 
  and 
 i keep playing it over and over
  AMAZING AMAZING 
  hehehehehe
  Just Go and Buy it not rent it 
  Buy it 
  
  !!!!!!!!
  WHATS 
 ELSE I CAN SAy 
  Its awesome
  but gamespot says i need to post like 100 words
  but just need one WORD
  MASTERPIECE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  It looks like every time there is a big revolution in gaming Mario is present. On the early eighties 
 not only did Super Mario Bros save the gaming industry but it also defined the concept of how a 
 platformer would work. During the following ten years every single game that was released had something 
 directly inspired on Mario's firs big adventure.
  
  The formula was polished as time passed and it reached its best with Super Mario Bros 3, which 
 is considered by many one of the best games ever produced. As the industry started developing 3-D 
 games many famous franchises tried to take a huge leap and change completely. Sadly, many of them 
 didn't manage to capture the essence of how a true 3-D adventure must be played.
  
  Gamers desperately needed someone to guide all developers. A hero that would show the correct path, 
 a path that had to be followed in order to produce an enjoyable game. Once again, Shigeru Miyamoto 
 did it. Super Mario 64 became the definitive tridimensional game. Its huge worlds waiting to be 
 explored were exhilarating.
  
  Ever since the story has repeated itself, all games copied many Mario 64 features, some of them 
 even managed to obtain a better result, but they were never able to produce the same reaction of 
 surprise and astonishment.
  
  Until November 12th, 2007 we naively thought that such a revolution would never be achieved again, 
 after all as far as we are concerned the human eye is not able to see the fourth dimension, so 
 we would be stuck on this 3-D environment for a while. Super Mario 64 was bound to retain its throne, 
 but we should have learned that we must never disregard Nintendo's uncanny ability to reinvent 
 their most famous franchises.
  
  If you still have any doubts concerning Galaxy's novelty then I'll be as direct as possible, Super 
 Mario Galaxy is the pure definition of revolution, it translates the Wii's intention into images, 
 colors and gameplay.
  
  The storyline is a huge clich, however, there is no way you can dislike it. Princess Peach is 
 once again kidnapped by Bowser the evil King of the Koopas and it is Mario's duty to save the damsel 
 and put an end to Bowser's scheme. Many people complain on Nintendo's lack of creativity when creating 
 a story for Mario's adventures but I would honestly feel bad if they changed it. I will never get 
 tired of saving the Princess.
  
  But since nobody buys Mario games because of their storyline, the most important thing to discuss 
 is the gameplay. As I have already stated, there is no way you will feel like you have already 
 played a similar game. Super Mario Galaxy is fresh and revolutionary. Once again there are 120 
 stars to be collected and in order to do so you need to guide Mario through outstanding colorful 
 worlds that have been named Galaxies for this game.
  
  There are around forty different Galaxies to be visited, while some of them just have one star 
 to be collected and are nothing but classic platform stages, there are others who are huge and 
 have up to seven stars to be gathered. Those huge galaxies can be divided in two distinct groups.
 
  
  The first one would be Galaxies that are a big flat world, pretty much like Super Mario 64's stages. 
 And the second one would be made of Galaxies that are huge groups of different planets. Needless 
 to say, both groups are quite entertaining and all Galaxies are extremely fun. A very interesting 
 detail is that in Galaxies that have more than one star change according to the star you are looking 
 for, so you will never go through the same planets, or follow the same path on the same Galaxy 
 twice.
  
  The coolest feature of the game is the gravity. While floating on space Mario will be attracted 
 by the closest planet. There are many awesome stages that use the gravity to their favor. Sometimes 
 you will even find yourself simply jumping from one planet to another to see how the game behaves. 
 The physics is perfect, Mario can walk sideways, upside-down and in all other imaginable positions.
 
  
  With such a crazy gameplay Nintendo assumed the players would fumble with the camera, and to solve 
 this problem they made it completely automatic, and to my surprise it works perfectly, it doesn't 
 matter how unpredictable your move is, the camera will keep on following you. Yet, if you are not 
 satisfied with the perspective Mario is being shown there is always the option to manually control 
 it and adjust it. You can also automatically put it behind Mario by simply pressing the C-button.
 
  
  The controls work very well. They feel slightly tighter than they were on the previous installments 
 of the series, but they give you enough freedom. Mario remains with all his classic moves, so if 
 you are already familiar with Sunshine or Mario 64 you will already know how to perform all his 
 jumps when you start the game. The swimming levels are pretty nice too, and it is also done pretty 
 much the same way as the previous games. Nintendo has added a multiplayer mode on which a friend 
 can point the Wiimote at the screen to help you gather star bits and kill enemies.
  
  Galaxy also presents two new ways to attack your enemies. You can shake wither the Wiimote or the 
 Nunchuck to make Mario perform a spin attack or you can also point your Wiimote at the screen to 
 aim and shoot star bits at Goombas and other famous stupid foes, when hit by star bits they will 
 get dizzy and if you approach them Mario will automatically kick them.
  
  Like Super Mario Sunshine, this game has a big group of bosses, and most battles are extremely 
 innovative and make a good use of the gravity features of the game, the only problem is that they 
 will be fairly easy to a more experienced player.
  
  The most impressive characteristic of this game is its amazing gameplay variety. There are tons 
 of different things to do, you will find racing levels, old-school platforming challenges, timed 
 stages, big worlds, small worlds, obstacle courses and many others.
  
  Besides, there are also seven incredible power-ups to be used. All of them, with no exception, 
 are really fun and add a lot to the whole experience, it was about time Nintendo brought them back. 
 You won't be able to put the controller down until you are finished with the game, and when you 
 do you will still feel like you could have played it for another forty hours.
  
  But don't think the game is short. It can actually be finished in fifteen hours, but if you are 
 going for fully completion then you will probably spend around thirty hours figuring everything 
 out.
  
  Galaxy is the Wii's best looking title, every tiny detail on the background is flawless. All galaxies 
 are colorful and enlivened, the Mario world has been brought to space and it never looked so amazing. 
 From the cutscenes to the characters, Nintendo has done a great job on all aspects. The textures 
 look good even when you check them closely, and the character models are bright and beautiful. 
 Usually, this early through a console's lifespan, graphics tend not to use all of the system's 
 hardware, but the developers managed to fully use the Wii's capacity, which is very impressive 
 since the Wii has been released just one year ago. I seriously doubt we will see a Wii game surpass 
 Galaxy's graphics.
  
  The music is awesome. This is the first time Nintendo has completely orchestrated a game's soundtrack 
 and as an obvious result the songs have never sounded better. The soundtrack is made of remixes 
 of classic Mario themes and new songs that are surprisingly better than anything you have heard 
 before. I thought that they wouldn't be able to create songs that are as catchy and as nice as 
 the old Mario songs, but I was awfully wrong. Koji Kondo has outdid himself this time, if you think 
 Zelda's songs are epic, just wait until you hear Galaxy's.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy's replay value is a rarity when compared to most modern games. The main reason 
 for that is because Galaxy plays similar to a classic platform game, while Super Mario 64 focused 
 on exploring, Galaxy is much more linear. And this old-school characteristic enhances the replay 
 value. After your first play through you will feel extremely compelled to do it all over again, 
 you won't even think twice.
  
  Finally, Super Mario Galaxy is by far the best game you can find on the Nintendo Wii and it is 
 bound to be the best title of this entire generation. I can't emphasize it enough, you need to 
 get this game. Nowadays we seldom see titles that can be considered big landmarks, but Nintendo 
 has done it again. Super Mario Galaxy has a unique gameplay, cool power-ups, amazing graphics, 
 touching soundtrack and some outstanding features. I don't have any doubts that for the next years 
 we will see many games following on its footsteps, copying a few things and polishing others. And 
 then on a not so distant future, when the Mario Galaxy quality will start to look unreachable, 
 Mario will reappear and once again revolutionize the gaming world.
  
  It is a never ending cycle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: george_is_link6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Mario galaxy is a very enjoyable game. Many fun aspects, and many colorful, fun worlds, each different 
 in it's own way. Running around, collecting stars, and once again, attempting to save the princess 
 from bowzer. Though the game fails to feature yoshi other than a planet shaped like his head, the 
 game has great gameplay featuring a spin attack that is very fun to use. Collecting coins is pretty 
 much absolutely pointless, and I think they are just there to collect dust or keep the spirit of 
 mario alive, but use a thing called star bits as currency to get new planets and can even be used 
 when fighting enemies or chasing very annoying rabbits. Things called comets come into play, and 
 are hard but tons of fun, and keep you trying to beat the game with things like racing yourself, 
 beating a boss with one health point, or race against the clock in levels you have already beaten. 
 One boss made of stone is hard enough when you face him, but extremely difficult with the comet. 
 I recommend this game to anyone with a wii, and it is definitely a game that you will play for 
 a while.
  
  One complaint I have is no multiplayer. Dont give me crap about the second star bit collector, 
 I'm talking about multiplayer. They could've done what they did with 64 DS, racing to collect stars 
 and spin attack your friend to take it away from them. Other than that, this game is a great one 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majinboris
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  How long has it been since a true Mario game has been released that one could call it Super Mario 
 64's successor? Too long. Those who've grown up playing Super Mario 64 and played Super Mario Sunshine 
 on the GameCube will understand what I mean. While Super Mario Sunshine wasn't a bad game - certainly 
 not! - it wasn't groundbreaking or revolutionary like Super Mario 64 was. As a result, gamers turned 
 their backs to it. There were no real flaws with the game: colorful, vivid, detailed worlds, great 
 platforming action, and the undeniable charm you would expect to fnd in a Mario game. The problem 
 was, that although it was a decent game, it just wasn't groundbreaking like Mario titles before 
 it, such as Super Mario Bros. on the NES and Super Mario 64 on the Nintendo 64. If Super Mario 
 Bros. define the platforming genre and Super Mario 64 set the bar for 3-D, Super Mario Galaxy redfines 
 and raises the bar even higher. In short, Super Mario Galaxy is a platforming game of, literally, 
 cosmic proportions; a true successor to Super Mario 64.
  
  As you would expect, the core gameplay hasn't evolved much over the last few years. You're still 
 running around hunting for stars in some world or another to unluck more worlds and, eventually, 
 the final boss. Regardless, this formula has worked very well over the last few generations which 
 began with Super Mario 64. Because of this basic, simple, pick-up-and-play formula it set the bar 
 for 3-D platformers; suffice to say, it more rather spawned many uninspired spin-offs (most notably 
 the Jak & Daxter series) . The platforming elements of Super Mario Galaxy remained pretty much unchanged. 
 You'll still be scaling massive structures, climbing to insane heights, jumping across pools of 
 lava and sand and God-knows-what-else, stomping on enemies, and collecting stars. It's the appealing, 
 recognizable gameplay that diehard Mario fans have loved since Mario's 1996 debut on the Nintendo 
 64.
  
  With so many platforming elements and stars to collect (121 in all, 242 total in a different, hidden 
 mode) you might be thinking, "Oh, well this game is game has awesome gameplay. There must be some 
 awesome levels too, right?" Cast all fears aside! The worlds of Super Mario Galaxy are, without 
 a doubt, right up there with Super Mario 64 on just about every level. Each 3-D Mario game has 
 had some sort of method for reaching your next destined world. With Super Mario 64 it was jumping 
 into various painting throughout Princess Peach's castle. It was nearly the same for Super Mario 
 Sunshine, although they weren't "paintings", per se; more like grafitti art. In the case of Super 
 Mario Galaxy, there's a "hub" area where you can access one of 7 different observatories. Each 
 observatory overlooks a galaxy and each planet in that galaxy holds a number of stars. The more 
 stars you collect, the farther out the observatory can see. Naturally, the boss stage would be 
 at the very edge of the galaxy and some of the stars can be a pain to collect, though not tiring 
 and frustrating, so you won't be duking it out with Bowser until you collect enough stars. Also, 
 it should be noted that even though you may only see three collectible stars at the beginning of 
 a planet, those will later be accompanied by certain events, such has receiving aid from Luigi 
 in your star hunt or by traveling to a planet while a comet is in orbit. If you're looking to collect 
 every star, these things will ensure that your task is not a bore.
  
  The worlds of Super Mario Galaxy are vast and greatly varied. Throughout your journey you'll cover 
 many expansive, elaborate, and sometimes intimidating landscapes such as deserts, bee hives, spaceships, 
 a haunted mansion, and even a world that's half frozen over and have molten to the core. Several 
 of these worlds present themselves in entirely different ways from one another. No one world is 
 the same as another so you won't feel like you're covering the same ground just with a new coat 
 of paint. You will literally feel the difference between each world and that's probably the most 
 appealing part about Super Mario Galaxy. It's always a new adventure, you're never doing the same 
 thing twice aside from traveling to new planet and collecting more stars.
  
  Speaking of the planets, there may be some confusion when you first play the game. The planets 
 that you're actually traveling to from the observatories are actually "galaxies" that host small, 
 various planets. It should be noted that they can hardly be called planet. As GameSpot editor Alex 
 Navarro put it, "They're not really planets, so much as these vague, abstract objects floating 
 through space." Some may be as big as a battle station or a honeycomb hive to as small as a garden 
 or a planet filled to the brim with water, hosting a vicious hungry skeletal shark. One thing about 
 this game is that - while this holds true for many games - Super Mario Galaxy literally defies 
 the laws of gravity. Literally. Each planet has its own gravitational pull and while hopping from 
 one to the next you might be wondering how something as simple as a moving platform can have the 
 mass necessary to create such a pull or if each planet has its own pull, why aren't they colliding 
 with each other? These are just very small things that aren't even worth looking into in any depth 
 as you'll likely look over them when you play. In fact, they kind of make the game even more fun 
 - or nauseating - than it should be. How many games are there where you get to run upside on the 
 ceiling or scale a sinking island surrounded by molten rock?
  
  The controls in Super Mario Galaxy are air-tight to say the least. They respond to your every action 
 perfectly and never once falter and with the exceptiong of a few advanced moves like the sideways 
 flip, you'll rarely have any trouble controlling Mario's movements; that is, to say, unless you 
 have unsteady hands. The introduction of the Wii Remote allows for a few new mechanics that may 
 seem intimidating at first but quickly grow on you after a short time. There's no double-jumping 
 in mid-air, per se, reather to get an extra boost you can quickly jiggle the Wii Remote back and 
 forth to have Mario do a sort of "spin jump". He won't necessarily jump but rather he'll just get 
 a few more seconds of air. This pertains to Mario's actions on the ground as well. One of the most 
 common techniques in the game is Mario's ability to do a spin attack by simple shaking the Wii 
 Remote or the Nunchuk back and forth quickly. You can use this technique to stun enemies, break 
 crystalized objects that hold mysterious colored celestial pieces, and most importantly defeat 
 bosses. The colored items I'm referring to are the 'Star Bits' as the game calls them. You can 
 collect these Star Bits by simplying point your Wii Remote at the screen and no matter where the 
 Star Bits are, if the remote crosses over them, they'll come to you. You can also fire the Star 
 Bits at enemies to briefly stun them or feed them at these little creatures called Lumas, which 
 are one of the more important characters in the game. The Lumas will assisst you in all sorts of 
 different ways, such as if you feed a Luma a certain number of Star Bits they'll transform into 
 something else entirely. Other than that, the control scheme is basically unchanged from Super 
 Mario 64 and Super Mario Sunshine, except now you're using the Wii Remote.
  
  The graphics and music are spectacular to say the least. You'll hear a lot of classic soundtracks 
 from past Mario games except this time they've been remixed to add a different flavor to the game, 
 so it's not a full rehash which is a good thing. Super Mario Galaxy is definitely hands-down the 
 best looking game on the Wii. Each world is jam-packed with vivid colors and you'll be wowed everytime 
 you see a volcano exploding or anything Mario blasts off into orbit. Speaking of which, the way 
 you reach each planet is kind of unique. Instead of everything being linked to one another directly, 
 you'll a lot of the time come across these orbital slings shaped like stars, aptly named "Slingstars". 
 The way you operate them is by shaking the Wii Remote remote the same way you would perform a spin 
 attack and simply watch Mario take off soaring through the cosmos from one planet to the next. 
 Sometimes you'll have to collect pieces of these slingstars to create one on a planet that is absent 
 of one. Also, there are blue stars called "Pullstars" which you can "grab" by moving the cursor 
 over them and pressing and holding the A button. It's all part of the game so neither of these, 
 along with the Star Bit collecting mentioned earlier, feel especially tacked on. In fact, it makes 
 the game al the more enjoyable and unique. Watching Mario take flight across pools of molten rock 
 - you sometimes wonder how he never gets burned from flying so low! - or soaring across vast expanses 
 of desert never gets tiring to see.
  
  Strangely, Super Mario Galaxy while a first-person adventure is capable of supporting two-players. 
 If one of your friends or someone has another Wii Remote they can point it at the screen and assist 
 you in various ways such as holding down enemies while you take a shot at them or collecting Star 
 Bits for you if you're too busy trying to whack coconuts at a giant, lava-spawning, fire-breathing 
 octopus or shaking your Wii Remote to blast through baddies. It doesn't add much to the single-player 
 play but it's fun to finally be able to play an actual Mario game with a friend or family member 
 ar your side instead of just shooing them away everytime they say, "Can I play?" This time you 
 can just say, "Sure!" and toss them a remote.
  
  Overall, Super Mario Galaxy is definitely the Wii game to have if not for Christmas then some other 
 time. If you own a Wii you would simply be doing yourself and Nintendo a disservice by not playing 
 this game, especially if you were let down with previus Wii titles. Super Mario Galaxy looks, sounds, 
 feels, and just is flat-out great. The visuals are excellent, the soundtrack feels epic, the level 
 design is just fantastic and definitely one of the most if not the most creative layouts of all 
 time. While it may not compare graphical-wise to the Xbox 360 or Playstation 3, Super Mario Galaxy 
 looks nothing short of aesthetically presentable and is an absolute joy; there's a certain charm 
 to the Mario games that just makes them seem all the more appealing. It's all good, light-hearted, 
 easy-going fun and if you're waiting out for a price drop go out and buy this game now. If you're 
 looking for a game to hold you off until Super Smash Bros. Brawl comes out, I can guarantee that 
 this game will keep you entertained for weeks on end.
  
  In fact, it's so addicting you'd do well not to let it take over much of your life. ~_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burgeg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  Before I bought the game I was reading all about how this was "Mario 64 in space" and I was very 
 optimistic at this. I only became introduced to the N64 classic this year when I downloaded it 
 on the Virtual Console. I liked it but its aged a bit in some ways. Mainly its bad camera controls. 
 I actually disagree with the term that galaxy is mario 64 in space. It feels alot different to 
 64 to me and not just because of the setting being in space.
  
  The way it is different can be said to be good or bad depending on your tastes. Galaxy is much 
 more leanier. In Galaxy you dont get the freedom you get in 64. You cant get the stars in a level 
 in any order any more and there's a much , much smaller emphasis on exploration. This doesn't make 
 the level designs any less brilliant. The game is undeniably more fun than mario 64 and the camera 
 and controls are far superior. You do have a hidden star in most levels that require you to explore 
 a bit and go off the main path of the level, but even these hidden stars dont require nearly as 
 much exploration as you had in mario 64.
  
  Enough about mario 64 now. Super Mario Galaxy is incredibly fun and has quite a decent length, 
 whether you plan on going for all 120 stars or not. The use of gravity makes some levels look and 
 feel insane. Insanely good though. You might expect the controls to not work so well when your 
 walking upsidedown, but thats not the case at all. Everything feels completely natural no matter 
 where you are or what direction you want to go. 
  
  The boss fights for the most part feel really good, although on the whole they're a little easy. 
 Some of them can be challenging at first but once you figure out what you need to do, its easy 
 as they normally only require 3 hits till they're dead.
  
  I love the idea of prankster comets. Prankster comets make you replay a level with an added twist. 
 A speedy comet makes you have to beat the level against the clock. Daredevil comets make you do 
 something in a level with only 1 bit of healt, normally a boss fight except one level where you 
 have to do an entire level with only 1 health. Fast foe comets make all enemies move really fast. 
 Some of these can be quite challenging and are really fun. 
  
  The only really negative things I can say about this game is the overall easy difficulty. People 
 have said its too easy to get to 60 stars to complete the main game. I'd agree with that. I'd also 
 add to that by saying getting all 120 stars in way too easy. It was more challenging for me to 
 complete mario 64's main game than it was to complete galaxy with 120. 
  
  Other than that this game is almost perfect. This is definitely the best mario game I've ever played 
 and probably the best platformer I've ever played. To me this is the second best game on the Wii 
 net to Twilight Princess. Whether you prefer Galaxy or TP is down to whether you prefer the platformer 
 or the action adventure. TP is the best action adventure I've ever played and Galaxy is the best 
 platformer I've ever played. I gave TP a perfect 10. The main thing keeping this from getting a 
 perfect 10 is it being too easy. If you own a wii and you like platformers even just a little, 
 you need to get SMG. Why wouldn't you want to own the game of the year? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NickMach9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  The first thing I noticed about this game is that the graphics are beautiful. This is by far the 
 sharpest and best looking game for the Wii. The cut-scenes are almost so good that you forget it's 
 a Mario game, for instance, Bowser is so much cool looking than he did in Melee (yeah that's hardcore) .
 
  
  The animation and controls are super smooth. The motion sensitive controls are very responsive 
 and quick, some 3rd party Wii games have some sluggish response times but Nintendo knows what they're 
 doing (eg: Metroid 3, Twilight Princess) .
  
  The game itself is great, the level set up is somewhat like Mario 64, where you begin each session 
 at a certain area, where it used to be the Castle, now it's a space station-thing inhabited by 
 floating/talking stars called Lumas. Rather than jumping into magical paintings, you enter observatories 
 and travel to new galaxies. Each level is spherical rather than the traditional orientation. This 
 might need some getting used to but it really adds to the gameplay. The boss battles are classic 
 Mario and the semi-Multiplayer capabilities are as well.
  
  Every system has one game that makes buying the console worth it, for PS2 it might be FFX, for 
 Xbox it was Halo, and for the Wii it is Super Mario Galaxy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MChammertime05
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 6:00 am PT
Review:  This is definitely the 3D platformer game ever. There is so much to do in this game. There are 
 120 total stars in the game and unlockable stuff. There are so many different galaxies in this 
 game and you'll definitely go back and play them after you beat them because they are just so much 
 fun. It is really fun using the wii mote and nunchuk to control Mario. Better than any controller 
 I've used in a Mario game. The graphics are also superb. Best looking nintendo wii game to date. 
 There is so much you can do in this game and you'll be playing this game for a very long time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packster
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy for the Wii is simply, Amazing, everything in this game looks wonderful, great 
 graphics, nice story, and the gameplay is classic, the motion sensing controls are kinda lacking 
 (due to all it is, is shaking the remote up and down) but the gameplay itself is smooth and fun, 
 the game will make you want to go back and play previous levels again... and again... 
  It only takes about 9 hours or less to finish the main story and get just enought stars to make 
 it to the final battle (which, again, is freaking sweet!) but to collect all 150, it wall take 
 a little (lot) longer, but, its always fun to go back and get them, and stupid luigi is always 
 getting lost, lol.
  
  1. Great Graphics award
  2. Great gameplay award
  3. All around great game award
  4. So cool, it just make you wanna smile award (lol)
  
  and 
 bla bla bla, I could go on forever giving this game awards! 
  
  But seriously PICK THIS GAME UP NOW!
  
  seriously
  
  Packster out XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAMKFan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I've always preferred Mario's 2D games over his 3D ones, but that's changed with this game. 
 Now, I believe this game is about as good as his 2D games. I was never a big fan of Super Mario 
 64 nor Super Mario Sunshine, but I'm a fan of this game. Not to mention, the concept of this game 
 is just plain cool! It's in space and you travel to different planets and galaxies. The basic story 
 is that Bowser took Peach with him for some big plan that he had. They go into space and Mario 
 follows them. There, he meets Princess Rosalina and the Lumas, which are shaped liked like stars.
 
  
  First of all, on this game, it's easier to unlock more stages, unlike before. That's one thing 
 the makes it better. That's because you won't need to go through the same stage like 5 or 6 times 
 in a row. And not even all stages have those many stars either, so that's good. Speaking of stars, 
 this game introduces something called star bites, which can be used for feeding different Luma 
 creatures which turn into a planet or a galaxy.
  
  Mario can't punch in this game, but instead, he has his spin attack, which is useful for different 
 things, like using it to attack enemies if you need more star bites or if you need to go transfer 
 to a different planet by a big star.
  
  Much like Super Mario 64, you don't need every single star to beat Bowser at the very end. You 
 only need like 60 of them. But if you manage to get every star, go to fight Bowser again. After 
 doing that, you will be able to use Luigi! Luigi tends to be absent in quite a few main Mario games 
 and I'm glad to see him in this. They left out Yoshi though. I would have liked being able to ride 
 him or even play as him alone.
  
  So, overall, this is the best Mario game in a long time and easily his best 3D game yet. Another 
 reason that I like this better than his other 3D games is because you don't get stuck as easily 
 on this game. I still haven't beaten Super Mario Sunshine because I keep getting stuck. So, I basically 
 gave up on that game. My real score for this game would probably be a 9.3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeak123
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy 
  
  WOW! This game was just great. You could play it without having any problem like wondering what 
 to do or be confused yet the game still makes you swearing to the end and that difficulty is always 
 there. 
  
  Graphics  Graphics wise this game is awesome I mean it's not PS3 standards but it's definitely 
 compared to Metroid Prime 3 and for a Wii game it has great graphics. I'd give it about a 9.9 if 
 it was for the 360 or something then I would give it a 8 so it's still to next gen standards. 
 
  
  Gameplay  The gameplay is just awesome. I was just incredibly amazed of how good it felt to play 
 as Mario; I felt that the controls were better than Metroid Prime 3 and Twilight Princess. They 
 were definitely better then Mario sunshine it just felt good, it would have a definite 10 for the 
 gameplay. 
  
  Value  The value of this game is a 10. It is definitely worth the 50 bucks for the amount of gameplay 
 you get it ranges to about 15 hours of gameplay and if you do everything you can do in the game 
 then you can get up to 25 hours of gameplay and it's so seamless that you can just keep replaying 
 this game forever. 
  
  Sound  Sound, good! The sound for this game is pretty awesome. The sound you get from the Wii 
 remote is really good and the sound from the screen are good but the reason that it kind of lacks 
 is because you have to read the text and it kind of sucks. It's about a 9 not really to next gen 
 standards. 
  
  Overall this game is awesome definitely worth fifty bucks and if you remember Mario 64 as a game 
 that was a childish game don't let that thought disrupt the quality of this game and prevent you 
 from buying this game great buy should buy it right away. I would give it something like a 9.8 
 but gamespot won't let me so it's at a 10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic1015
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  this game is 1 of the best games i ever played "besides guiatr hero" this game deserves a 10 becuase 
 bowser kinds looks real the graphic sare amazing and the sotry line and level's are just fantanstic! 
 =) i love how u always save the princess from bowser ! =) this game totally beats super mario sunshine 
 that game was a terrible disaster like who wants to sprinkle water around its retarted!  = ( galaxy 
 showed gammers everywhere how to make a good game the consluusion to super mario 64 and sunshine 
 =) this game is SOOOO aditing u will neverr want to stop playing this game so if i where u i would 
 throw out sunshine and get galaxy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akluvum
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is a staple in the Mario and Wii series. More good can only come from what excelence 
 Nintendo has seemingly been unbeaten at, Platformers. This game will inspire all video game inthusiasts 
 and this game will be cherished for a very long time. The levels and map designs are indefinitely 
 the best and smoothest seen in years. The new mario will capture what many gamers have been missing 
 without even knowing the simplicity of the game leads you on to continue to beat it and from there 
 completing everything. Great buy, no disapointments what so ever. SOLID! This game should sell 
 the wii just by itself, from mario's first 2d adventure they have all been so very enjoyable, it's 
 all the more reason to go and buy this game. The game is made so even a lesser gamer could finish 
 this game but still leaves more for those of us who go beyond the need and reach for the "STARS". 
 Mario galaxy 10/10 Hands Down! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warplane11
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  This is a pretty good game but it's way to easy, even getting 120 stars isn't that hard since it's 
 not like Mario 64 or Sunshine where there are hidden stars in the main place, but the galaxies 
 are fairly interesting. The graphics are unbelieveable though and most of the bosses are really 
 cool but there all really easy. They tried to add some by putting in this book that tells a side 
 story that has pretty much nothing to do with the game itself, the story also doesn't make much 
 sense. Also not much storyline in this game I give this game an 8 out of 10. I thought it was really 
 good except for the fact that it's really easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkDSpro63
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Remember that time when Galaxy first showed up last year at E3? Well, then you'd know that Super 
 Mario Galaxy is THE game to get this year. Nintendo really put a lot of heart and soul into this 
 game. And a year later after its first showcase, Super Mario Galaxy shot up the quality we see 
 in almost any Mario game.
  
  One thing I am disappointed is the storyline. Yeah, I know. The whole "Bowser stealing Peach" concept 
 is the typical basis of most Mario games. During a comet festival, Bowser crashes the party and, 
 once again, has to be a giant a-hole and kidnap Princess Peach. And Mario must save his damsel 
 in distress. The setting in the story, however, is what intrigued me the most, space. The setting 
 allows the gameplay to do more than just running and jumping. Other aspects become involved, such 
 as the laws of physics applying various puzzles and boss fights.
  
  The way the game plays and reacts is nearly flawless in Galaxy. Simple movements such as running 
 and jumping feel extremely smooth, as well as backflips and wall jumps and such. In Galaxy, Mario 
 receives his primary maneuver known as his spin attack. With a quick shake of the remote, Mario 
 does a spin that acts as his basic attack and movement. The spin attack is used for many interesting 
 puzzles and to activate launch stars.
  
  Difficulty wise, finishing the story at least is not very challenging at all. I mean, achieving 
 60 stars is pretty easy, and also unrewarding. To really get the most out of this game, finishing 
 with all 120 stars feels both rewarding, and entertainingly challenging.
  
  Closing in, I highly recommend buying this game. Easily this year's system seller, Galaxy proves 
 to be a memorable experience, just as Mario 64 introduced 3-D gaming. Overall, the game was presented 
 nicely with its intuitive controls and stellar gameplay. The graphics were also amazingly impressive 
 as well. They're the best I've ever seen on Wii yet. Please don't fill your mind with doubt. GET 
 THIS GAME NOW, or your money back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooperred
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo has evolved gameplay with Pokemon, Vacuumed-Packed us with Kirby, Blasted us to bits with 
 Star Fox, cut us up with Link, made us go wild with Donkey Kong, and, once again, made us go "Mama 
 Mia, this is Amazing!" with Super Mario Galaxy.
  
  I started the game thinking "I bet this'll be like Super Mario Sunshine," and, in 10 min, I thought 
 "Wow, the controls are so easy, the Graphics are even better than Sunshine, Gameplay is Addicting, 
 and you have a blast zooming through the stars, an- hey, is that Captain Olimar's ship from Pikmin 
 2? Cool!"
  
  The rating 10 fits perfectly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naked_Snake
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  I'll cut straight to the point. There are a few frustrating moments in the game, due to a disturbance 
 in camera angles, mostly when going over an edge on a planet or when underwater, but asides from 
 that, this is brilliant. The balance between the length of levels and their difficulty is spot 
 on, while still remaining highly addictive. The graphics, while not a grand improvement on Sunshine, 
 still retain their life. It's a vibrant and colourful world that draws you in. The music to this 
 also compliments the gamplay fantastically, providing essences of some final fantasy music, along 
 with the obvious, good old fashion mario tunes. The most fun I've had on a game in a long time! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ImError88
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Mario.
  
  Everybody knows him, everybody (wellalmost) loves him. The chubby Italian plumber is back in his 
 new adventure for the Wii, titled Super Mario Galaxy. 
  
  Now, lets step back a bit right here. Lets look at the timeline of Mario games. They pretty much 
 run as if it were two parallel universes. Super Mario Bros. can be compared to Mario 64, in which 
 they both revolutionized how gaming was (in 2-D and 3-D) . Next up, is Super Mario Bros. 2, and 
 Mario Sunshine. Both games were praised by critics, however, it felt too different from the series, 
 and was looked upon as the black horse of the series. If the stars are aligned as they should be, 
 then I'm proud to announce that Mario Galaxy is this generation's Super Mario Bros. 3. It expands 
 on what Mario has always been about, but breathing new and fresh ideas into the series, resulting 
 in a clash of the old and new, in a seamless cohesive manner, that will leave anyone (new Mario 
 player or old) satisfied.
  
  But really, that's not why Mario Galaxy is one of the greatest games in years. Galaxy is an absolutely 
 breath-taking achievement, because of the amount of fun you will have. This is, in essence, THE 
 best Mario game, since Super Mario Bros. But even THAT is an understatement. Simply put, Mario 
 Galaxy is a game that anyone should play, regardless of age, sex, creed, etc. It's for everyone 
 and anyone.
  
  Now, why is this game so amazing? Well, lets start at where Mario games always shine, the gameplay. 
 Simply put, it's a Mario game. You control your jumps, you wall-jump, triple jump, duck, butt-stomp, 
 and side-jump. It's all classic Mario gameplay, and it all works just fine with the translation 
 over to Wii. However, the big inclusion to the gameplay, is the spinning attack. You just shake 
 the Wii remote, and Mario spins rapidly around, knocking objects and enemies with it. The shaking 
 doesn't feel gimmicky, or weird by any means. It's just there. The Wii remote is also used for 
 pointing at Star Bits to collect them, which is extremely helpful and is pretty much a game in 
 itself. You can shoot these Star Bits at enemies to stun them and give you a chance to attack. 
 Also, the Wii-mote is used for pointing at floating blue star orbs, which will put you into a bubble, 
 and will sort of glide you along as you point at more of them. That too, feels very good. Lastly, 
 there are specific instances where you must tilt the controller to move a ball around, blow Mario 
 around inside a big bubble, etc. Thankfully, all of these gestures are used just enough, and not 
 in every part of the game. Overall, the controls are simply top-notch, and it feels like a Mario 
 game, while adding the Wii's control scheme to extremely good effect. It all works in a satisfying 
 and cohesive way, that could never work on another console.
  
  But, the other side to the gameplay, is, of course, the main galaxies themselves. There are over 
 40 galaxies to explore in the game's entirety, which leaves open for a lot of variety to these 
 galaxies. These are some of the most craziest, and yet well-put together level designs ever devised. 
 You will never do the same thing twice in separate galaxies, unless of course, you want to. The 
 sheer sense of variety is impeccable, and you will always wonder and think about what the next 
 galaxy will be like. Now, of course, your main goal is to collect all 120 stars in the game, but 
 you only need 60 to complete the game. You get these stars by completing certain tasks within the 
 galaxies. Most of them originally have 3 stars to collect, but some only have one. These special 
 galaxies are either unlocked naturally, or if you feed Star Bits to stars called "Lumas". For the 
 normal galaxies, you will collect more stars when Comets fly over orbit on these galaxies. These 
 "comets" allow you to collect an extra star at the galaxy, but they repeat a past task, but under 
 new circumstances, like enemies become faster, race Dark Mario, complete it under a certain time 
 limit, can't take damage, or collect 100 purple coins. These different circumstances add more to 
 the variety, in that you complete a certain task in a new and exciting way, one where you would 
 not normally go off into certain territories in these galaxies. 
  
  Now, your in space. What do you have in space? Gravity. This is the big hook to the gameplay, and 
 this is what flips this game, and an entire genre, on it's head. As you are walking across planetoids, 
 you are attached to this center of gravity. You will walk around the planet, without falling off. 
 You can even find other planets to jump onto, due to the gravity pull. This leads to some amazing 
 and mind-bending puzzles that have never been seen before, and will make you feel very rewarded 
 after completing such a challenge. When you combine the sheer scope and variety of the level designs, 
 the clever use of gravity, and the nostalgic values and traditions of Mario games past, you get 
 a unique and satisfying gameplay experience every time you play.
  
  Graphically, the game looks absolutely stunning. But this all has to do with the artistic style 
 of the game, more so than the technical engine. The way everything looks, the character models, 
 the worlds, all of the colors and animations, they are the sole reason why this is the best looking 
 game on the Wii. Everything just looks right. The way it was imagined. The way YOU imagined these 
 worlds to look like. The amount of artistry that went into this deserves every bit of recognition. 
 This is one of the most beautiful looking games ever made, and even just looking at some of the 
 worlds and characters, they can sure put a smile on your face.
  
  Sound-wise, there is only one thing to talk about, and that is the music. It is by far, THE best 
 Nintendo composition of a game, ever. With the inclusion of orchestral scores, these bring the 
 galaxies to life, and breathe new life into the Mario franchise. From the beautiful, relaxing piano 
 piece of Space Junk Galaxy, to the loud and adventurous Melty Molten Galaxy, everything just sounds 
 epic and outstanding. You will most certainly start humming these songs every chance you get. Voice-acting 
 is never really that important in a Mario game, and it serves no purpose here too. But back to 
 the sound, it is all exceptionally well-done.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is one of the best Mario games yet. Combining everything that is awesome about 
 Mario into a unique and original game design creates a seamless adventure that stacks up to any 
 other game, ever released. That seems to be an overstatement, but it isn't. Sure, there are some 
 times where the camera can not respond quickly, and the game may be a little easy, but these flaws 
 never stick out. The difficulty in fact, makes Galaxy more enjoyable. The Wii is for anyone and 
 everyone, and Mario Galaxy proves it. By providing an non-existent learning curve with the satisfying 
 gameplay, creates an experience that anyone can enjoy. Mario Galaxy is that game that everyone 
 will remember 10 years down the road. It's accessibility, ingenuity, quality, and quantity, are 
 all represented in utter perfection. In essence, Super Mario Galaxy is a triumph in every aspect, 
 and will go down as one of the most memorable, and greatest games ever created. Period. If you 
 have a Wii, do not hesitate. Pick this up, and enjoy an experience that you wish other games can 
 come close to. It will leave you a feeling of joy and satisfaction that you thought was lost years 
 ago. It's here, and will never leave you. 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: peeker9923
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  I got this game the very first day it came out, and was simply amazed after playing it for only 
 five minutes. The gameplay is extremely fun and addicting, and the graphics look almost as if this 
 game was running on the ps3 or xbox 360. The music is superb, and i found myself humming to some 
 of the tunes in my spare time. Collecting all 120 stars will be tough, but the game is so much 
 fun, that you will probably never give up.
  The only complaint I really have for this game is that the camera can get a little messed up and 
 start to jerk around. But the camera is definitely an improvement over the camera from super mario 
 sunshine. Overall, this is a game that people will be playing for a long time to come. It is a 
 game that should be in any wii owners collection, and if you don't have a wii, i would recommend 
 buying one just for this game. It's simply amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson1992
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Firstly, I'd just like to say how amazing i think this is. The game is absolutely amazing. It's 
 by far the most impressive game on the wii to date. In terms of picture, sound, gameplay and all 
 the other important gameplay elements, completely surpass the other wii games currently available. 
 From the moment the disk goes in and you select the channel and you hear "Suuuuuupeeeerrr Maaaariiiiooooo 
 Gaaaaalaaaaxxxyyyy!" for the first time to the end of the game, it will have you laughing. If you 
 are a retro Mario gamer you will understand more of the "in-jokes" about the game. The graphics 
 are by far the best on the wii at present, and better than some Xbox 360 games. The sound is amazing, 
 from Mario's voice to the music on certain levels (particularly the Good Egg Galaxy) it's gold 
 for the ears. My only gripe for the game is that it may be a bit short, especially for the more 
 hardcore gamers. There is 120 stars to collect, but some are really easy to get for the better 
 gamers. This is however still a massive game, so just a tiny niggle, not enough to stop it getting 
 a 10 in my opinion! If you own a Wii, this should either already be in your collection, or on your 
 Christmas List!
  Buy it... Buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tweb150
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  Mario Galaxy es un juego inovador y entretenido. Mario bros se caracterisa por inovar el mercado 
 de videojuegos, recordemos que mario sunshine fue un asco, es un buen juego de plataformas pero 
 no mostraba algo nuevo y era muy complicado y algo frustrante. Encambio Mario galaxy su dificultad 
 no es nada frustrante es un juego que te recuerda lo emocionante que fue jugar por primeraves Mario 
 64. 
  En esta entrega se ve que cuidaron mucho los aspectos de los marios anteriores de nes y snes. Hay 
 varios poderes desde la clasica estrella que te haces invensible hasta la flor con la cual te puedes 
 convertir en fire mario. La musica es otro factor importante ya que tiene melodias del clasico 
 super Mario bros 3 lo que hace que sea unico este juego.
  El modo de juego es diverdido ya que en ocaciones puedes jugar de cabeza, de lado y el clasico 
 2d. 
  Es un buen juego y si merece esta calificacion porque apesar de la poca capasidad grafica (comparado 
 con el xbox 360 y el playstatio 3) hizo una maravilla de juego y sorprendentemente inovador.
  La verdad este juego debes de tenerlo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Polychief
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: unique gameplay, interesting level design, Gravity effects work well, good graphics, 
 
  
  THE BAD: sound falls a bit short of the other elements 
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is one of those rare games that truly shows what a console can do and excels 
 at pretty much everything it does. As the first Mario game on the Wii, Galaxy shows what the system 
 can do in terms of graphics, game play, control, and level design. 
  
  The game starts out with Mario going to visit Princess peach at her castle. As always, bowser comes 
 in and snatches her away leaving Mario to go save her. This aspect of the story hasn't changed 
 since the first Mario, but Galaxy makes it unique by adding the space aspect. You see, Mario ends 
 up on a space station with a lady named Rosaline and helps her out by collecting the power stars, 
 while at the same time powering up the space station so it can take him to fight bowser. Although 
 it isn't that big a change from the regular Mario story it's still just enough to make it unique. 
 
  
  From there you take Mario through the various levels of the game. The levels are set up in the 
 same way Mario 64 had its levels set up. There are the domes which house the different galaxies. 
 This is basically like the different floors of the castle from Mario 64. Then each dome has about 
 5 different galaxies that are the individual levels, like the paintings from Mario 64. And, also 
 like Mario 64, you unlock different domes after getting a certain amount of stars in the current 
 dome. 
  
  The level design in Galaxy is amazing. The gravity factor of each planet allows Mario to walk over 
 every planet fully, and sometimes you can even jump from one to the next without falling into a 
 black hole. And not only does the gravity add a cool disorientation factor to the game, it also 
 makes the puzzles in the game more unique.
  
  Of course, if you're walking over planets all Topsy turvy, having good controls would help. It's 
 a good thing that Mario Galaxy's controls are excellent. Mario is moved with the analog stick on 
 the nun chuck. You make him jump with the A button on the Wiimote and his spin attack can be used 
 by shaking the Wiimote. In Galaxy theres also a star pointer on screen that lets u collect star 
 bits (the games currency and ammunition that you can shot at enemies with the B button) and also, 
 in certain situations, pull and even slingshot Mario to different locations. 
  
  The game also has great graphics that show what the Wii really can do. This is just about the best 
 looking Wii game and it shows. All the areas look unique and colorful and the characters like Mario 
 and Rosaline are also colorful and cartoonish. 
  
  The sound also compliments the graphics with different tunes for every level that add to the mood 
 of each galaxy. The Wiimotes speaker also emits sound when you do various things like launch from 
 a launch star or collect and throw star bits. Although each level has it's own catchy tune some 
 of these wear out after a while making the sound a bit of the low point in the game.
  
  The replay value of the game is very high. Not only does a lot of the levels have its own "comet 
 mission" (different challenges for the levels) and there are secret hungry luma levels and other 
 secret things to unlock. So although the main quest doesn't take too long to finish the extra things 
 extends the length by a lot.
  
  All in all Mario Galaxy is the one must have game for the Wii that not only shows what the Wii 
 can do but also shows that even an old Series like Mario can still be fresh and new 20 years later 
 with new intuitive game play and design ideas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ken1311
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  At first when I didnt have this game I saw a lot of videos about it and I looks amazing. This game 
 is like Mario in space which is cool. Most people say this game is the best Nintendo Wii game. 
 So, then when I got it, I played the first level, and it was AWSOME. Who never new a Nintendo Wii 
 whould come up with somethin like this. The only thing that is kinda hard is to get is to get all 
 he stars. I have 70 now out of 120. But Anyway, the games a masterpeice for the Nintendo Wii if 
 u dont have it get IT.... if u love to play Mario games and the Nintendo Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weisguy119
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 10:00 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game and I'm not even a big fan of Mario games. Just about every one of them, since 
 Super Mario Brothers on the NES, has been a "been there, done that" experience for me. I really 
 expected more of the same with SMG. However, it does enough things differently to make it feel 
 fresh to me. The game looks nice and plays nicer. I'm glad I went against my instincts and bought 
 this masterpiece. If you own a Wii, this is a must-buy. I subtracted a point for having basically 
 the same story as every Mario game. Nintendo really needs to change the stories of its major titles. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackenedSky719
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Whether its the brilliant color, the unique way of visiting worlds, or all the different bonus 
 levels, this is a game for any Mario loves collection. While occassionally the camera angle may 
 drive anyone a bit batty its true to what it is, running around the galaxy. The boss battles can 
 be challenging but if you're familiar with older Marios its just right. I love this game and I 
 consider it to be a must have. If you love Mario and you have a Wii there is no excuse not to have 
 this game. It was beautifully done. I easily give it a ten out of ten and I think giving it any 
 less is a discredit to the creators. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crmn-tao
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Mario game that is popular and the greatest for the wii but if you thnk it isn't, 
 it was because this game is the first mario game that contain many adventures than Super Paper 
 Mario but it's good for some performance that you know. The graphics are difference from the new 
 type of textures but it still almost previous. From sound, the music is very terrfic that you can 
 hear but the voices are all the same as before, however, it still great from the previous voice 
 actors. The gameplay is very essential because it got to collect the star bits that you collect 
 from the most score and tries to get the grand stars after defeated all of bosses and the finish 
 from objectives. Also from this game, it can be play from kids or shall say everyone and those 
 who are interested to play the next Mario game that is very exciting for the new adventures, Super 
 Mario Galaxy is one of them because it got excellent story, gameplay, and so on but try not to 
 play hard because when you lose the game, you be concentrate how to win the game. Anyway, Super 
 Mario Galaxy is one of the most popular Mario game for the wii and you can actually play it any 
 time whenever you want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lex_in_the_moon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  The Wii has gotten some great games now, Zelda, Paper Mario, Metroid Prime but I'd have to say 
 that Galaxy is my favourite of them all and one of my favourite games. The story (like anyone cares) 
 is Mario goes to Peach, Peach gets captured by Bowser some other things happen and now Mario's 
 in space, now Mario has to find stars to get to bowser. Cool, huh? Whatever. After comes what Mario 
 lives for, sweet core gameplay.
  
  You find yourself in the comet observatory and there's a wierdo called Rosalina who has all of 
 these lumas which are mini star people. There are different observatory posts where you can find 
 multiple Galaxy worlds where there are missions in, to get stars of course. Each Galaxy provides 
 a new experience that you find in future galaxys. There are many power-ups such as bee mario, boo 
 mario, ice mario, fire mario and more.
  
  You have abilities like jumping (obviously) by tapping A, spinning by giving the Wiimote a little 
 shake and shooting star bits by pressing B and aiming with a cursor. They all work fine so don't 
 worry. The game features a 2 player co-op where the 2nd player points around with a 2nd remote 
 gathering starbits and shooting them and stopping enemies for Mario. It's not that good it's just 
 an excuse to play while your friends are over. I'll say now that the game itself is too easy, dieing 
 is avoidable unless your an experimenter and 1 ups are everywhere to be found. Oh well, it's still 
 extremely awesome even if you like being challenged.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Well I told you it's one of the best games ever, the gameplay is solid and there's NOTHING wrong 
 with it. A lot of people may say it's another Mario 64 but other than star collecting and jumping 
 and other Mario gameplay elements found all around the series, it's nothing like Mario 64. Finding 
 every star is a nice goal to make.
  
  Graphics: 9.5/10
  I knew it, I knew the Wii didn't have PS2 graphics. Pushing the Wii to it's current limits it's 
 probably the best graphically impressing Wii title yet. It doesn't get much better.
  
  Sound/Music: 10/10
  Wow, orchastrated music. Something that Twilight Princess lacked. The sounds 
 are cool and creative. Although some tunes are re-used in levels, it won't disapoint in anyway.
 
  
  Controls: 9.5/10
  Controls work incredibly well, who says you need 20 buttons to make a good game. After a couple 
 of hours the controls will feel completely natural to you. A Wii game doesn't need all motion sensing 
 to be good. The only problem is when walking down a planet at an angle. Mario may start spinning 
 in circles due to random control changes.
  
  Overall: 9.5/10
  Almost perfect but it's not, GET IT IF YOU OWN A WII! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: butterlou
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy seems to have taken all the previous games, mixed with the demands of today's 
 trends and blends them all together to make one surprising good game. 
  Mario once again is after Bowser and has to take on different worlds while gathering stars to get 
 to his sweets: Princess Toadstool. The game feels as a perfect mesh of SMB 3, SMB 64, and the original. 
 This is evident by the collection of coins, however Star Bits steal the show here. Also, the transformation 
 into the 'Bee' reminds one of the frog and raccoon. Finally as always there are an array of colors 
 that just bring so much to life the screen and really gives that kid appeal and an appreciation 
 of Nintendo. 
  The controls are fluent which were a delight. There was not much struggle wondering what move to 
 make or where to move Mario. Of course everything is in threes and the remote is a compliment to 
 the nunchuk. 
  Missing is the option to choose Luigi. This is Mario's game however the concept behind these games 
 is that its Super Mario BROTHERS unless Nintendo plans to drop a Luigi adventure again and have 
 these two doing an 'Outkast' simulation. 
  Mario Galaxy is an awesome game. Whether you're old or new school this game really delivers and 
 sets the part. I'm proud that I was able to be a part of this and I reccomend it to all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: use_da_schwartz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  Finally, another Mario Platformer. And you know what? This is far superior to SM64.
  
  Gameplay: 30/30 Okay, so we know the storyline isn't at it's best, but who cares? To be honest, 
 I've been waiting a very long time for Bowser to be the main villain again. The gameplay is at 
 its best when the comets are orbiting the galaxies. Sure, getting the regular stars and beating 
 most of the bosses can be pretty fun, but what if you couldn't be hit at all? Or what if you only 
 had 3 minutes to complete the mission? That's what made many of the missions really intense and 
 just awesome in general. Not every mission is ridiculously easy. They are for the most part, but 
 there are some hard bosses. Sure, every time I die, I get at least 2 1ups, but some of the missions 
 are still pretty hard. Or at least, they can be.
  
  Graphics: 13.5/15 Yes. The visuals are amazing, but there are a few technical issues that can probably 
 be noticed pretty easily. This isn't Donkey Kong Country where the visuals for once outweigh how 
 smoothly everything moves.
  
  Sound: 10/10 Music is amazing. It fits all environments perfectly. End of story.
  
  Value: 
 15/15 Having over 200 stars in this game available definitely adds replay value and probably makes 
 for the longest Mario game in existance. This is worth $50 bucks.
  
  Tilt: 27/30 This is easily the best game out on the Wii right now. Chances are in February it'll 
 be overshadowed by SSBB, but who cares? We've been waiting for another awesome Mario adventure, 
 and we got it.
  
  Overall: 95.5/100 = 9.55/10 = 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueguy93
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  Remember that thought that any game would rank higher than Super Metroid? Super Mario 64. Remember 
 that thought that any game would rank higher than Super Mario 64? Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of time. 
 Remember that thought that some game would rank higher than that game? Not for nine years. Super 
 Mario Galaxy, the critically praised smash, is not one of the best games of the year, and not one 
 of the best of all time.
  
  It's the best game of the year, and of all time!
  
  I love it, it was  
  
  The graphics, 
 for starters, were better than the ones in Super Mario Sunshine, in fact, better than Legend of 
 Zelda: Ocarina of time, than any other game combined! They are perfectly colored in for you to 
 see, and the movement is not shaky at all, oh no.
  
  The music is THE BEST YET!!! It really got me excited!
  
  The sound and audio are flawless 
 and able to listen to. Unlike previous mario sounds, like Mario Vs. DK 2, the audio is better than 
 that great sound from MVDK 2. 
  
  The control; unlike all the rest of the wii games with control, Super Mario Galaxy offeres you 
 a 3D world, or planets for that matter. Sonic and the Secret Rings was great, but the control sucked; 
 why? Because there was barely any room. Super Mario Galaxy offers you a ton of room like in the 
 previous games.
  
  You've ever seen horrible cameras? This doesn't have that. It is a wonderful camera straight on 
 like other Mario games. The camera is better than the free one in Super Mario 64, even Paper Mario. 
 My gosh, can it get any better than this.
  
  Finally, the difficulty. The difficulty is not extremly hard to beat, but it does harnest some 
 difficulty (That's what makes a game exciting) . Difficulty is just right, easy to beat at most 
 costs, but hard on the other side. Everybody can even get past the first level!
  
  Overall: The best thing to hit the earth and the entire galaxy. Sorry Paper Mario, there's a new 
 champion on my #1 game of all time and it's Super Mario Galaxy!! Buy this game and DO NOT RENT 
 IT!! WHAT IDIOT RENTS SUPER MARIO GALAXY??? Buy this game, the #1 Game of 2007, the first crirtically 
 praised mario game in a while, and the best game of all time!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shorty340
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 12:21 am PT
Review:  Mario Galaxy. This game is soooo much fun. I was playing it, and constantly new galaxies, special 
 stars and other oppurtunities opened up. I was constantly busy and was always thinking of which 
 star to do next. This game is extremely fun and is probably the best Wii game to date. I like how 
 all of the levels are really original and even though mario goes back to the beginnings of video 
 game history this game feels completly new and fun. The controls just feel right. It feels so good 
 for some strange reason when you shake the remote and a start launches you to another planet. This 
 is a really great game. If you own a wii you must buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjwyoshi64
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Mario's finally arrived on Wii, and it's great to have him.
  
  I'll keep this review short and sweet. This is easily the best game available for the Wii right 
 now. The difficulty ranges anywhere from ridiculously easy all the way up to some fairly frustrating 
 parts (but in that "man, I wanna beat this" way) . The usage of gravity in the game is absolutely 
 brilliant and it's really kind of fun to just try and see if you can start an orbit around some 
 of the smaller planetoids.
  
  The art and graphics look pretty fantastic, and the sound is great. The music outshines quite possibly 
 all other soundtracks I've heard in a Mario game with its fully orchestrated cuts. It really brings 
 life to the game, and the nods to previous games are great.
  
  Basically, I look at it like this. They say history repeats itself, and I'm inclined to believe 
 that, so here's my take:
  
  SMB1=SM64 - Great games, and will remain classics for as long as games exist
  SMB2=SMSun - Still 
 good, but they don't really feel like Mario
  SMB3=SMG - Takes the original concept and just shoots for the moon, and it comes pretty darn close.
 
  
  Go get this game, now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nelzoma
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  This is an amazing game with awesome graphics. The gameplay is great but sometimes because of the 
 weird gravity rules it can be a little difficult. I mentioned the graphics earlier and they were 
 good but once i noticed a small mistake in the 3d graphics. Other than those two mistakes i saw 
 it was perfect, it had lots and lots of stars and when you beat bowser at the end it wasn't one 
 of those games where you have to go back to where you last save it even unlocks some stuff. Really 
 if you are looking for lot's of fun that will last a week or two play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_big_fp
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 23, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  I've seen Mario grow up.
  
  When he was climbing those ladders in the fiendishly difficult Donkey Kong, I was more addicted 
 to Scramble.
  
  When he had his own series of console and arcade outings with his less famous brother, I was playing 
 on my Spectrum, my Amiga or my PC.
  
  I tried platformers. I tried them repeatedly as people incessantly raved about them. I never enjoyed 
 them. So I never really looked at any for years. They were OK for 20 minutes or so, but then I'd 
 get frustrated and give up and go play Quake 2 online and realise why I hated platform games.
 
  
  Then, in February, I bought a Wii, because I thought they looked cool and seemed to redefine what 
 video gaming was all about. And I was right. But I still didn't try any platform games. Coz they're 
 booooring.
  
  Last week I was looking through Amazon with my 5 year-old son, trying to decide which Wii game 
 we were going to get for Christmas.
  
  I was drawn to Mario Galaxy, God knows why, so I did a little research. It looked like a good game 
 and seemed to be a departure from your standard platform fare, so tentatively I ordered it.
  
  It arrived yesterday and I haven't left it alone since!
  
  it's awesome. The level design 
 is pure inspired genius. The control couldn't be done on anything other than the classic remote/nunchuck 
 pairing the Wii offers, but it's totally unobtrusive. It feels natural and easy.
  
  The variety offered in the levels is stupendous and each planet has its own character. But more 
 than anything this game provides you with that feeling of utter magic only Nintendo seem able to 
 create. It implores you to try that last level again, because you KNOW you can do it, and anyway 
 if you can't you KNOW it's gonna be a load of fun trying.
  
  I can't say this loudly enough... "I LOVE THIS GAME!!! OnE11!"
  
  I'm going to play this game 
 to the very end. And when I do I'll start again. Then I'll cry because it's finished and it's very 
 likely a game like this won't come along again for a long time.
  
  Buy it. 
  
  If you have a Wii, this is the ONLY game that you simply MUST buy.
  
  Do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 03mareed
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  So the Spiritual successor to Super Mario 64 is here.
  After the fairly different ratings on the previous Super Mario game Super (Mario Sunshine) The 
 super mario seris needed a truly sweet game to make doubters forget of sunshine. I myself found 
 sunshine mostly a disapointment, being that marios main weapon a built up water gun seemed rarther 
 random.
  
  The game starts of in familiar mario fashion, the princess is kiddnaped by bowser and it is marios 
 duty to save her at all cost, Nothing new at all until he is flung into space by one of bowsers 
 muscle and awakes on a foreign planet, this is where things get different.
  
  To save the princess this time around Mario must fight his way through space avoiding things like 
 blackholes and asteroids which is quite stereotypical but with nintendos vision is moulded perfectly.
 
  
  To progress through Galaxies you must collect Grand Stars these can be obtained by beating a boss, 
 it will also unlock another galaxy. The main objective of the game though is to collect normal 
 stars once you have collected enough you can then travel to the centre of the universe were Bowser 
 castle is and finish him for good.
  
  Overall its truly awesome and it has revived the Super Mario Series the controls are mastered, 
 the camera is mastered and the graphics are best yet for a Mario game.
  
  If you have a wii this game is a no brainer. You Must Own It! 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaurabhAV
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2007 2:12 am PT
Review:  Now, gamespot usually likes to create a hype for games and then gives them crappy reviews! But 
 for Super Mario Galaxy that was definitly not the case. Now this game is definitly fun, the animations 
 are smooth and vibrant. Instead of just coins, you also collect starbits.. which basically took 
 over the functionality of giving lifes and shooting and feeding. Also once you beat the first half 
 of the game you can collect different coins and unlock many other elements. Now what dissapointed 
 me was how easy it was to collect the first 60 stars, not to mention it did not require alot of 
 time! Also, since we are in space now, there is no fixed land to travel on. One jumps from mini 
 planet to planet and the path way is basically laid out for you. No hunting is neccessary to complete 
 the basic game.
  
  Bosses can be challenging at times, but usally are not. I personally think the new castle isnt 
 as unique as mario 64's one, but you get visits from many old friends. Its perhaps the fact that 
 the gameplay is so tight, that it becomes so easy.. but trust me, the game can make you dizzy at 
 times with its 4 dimensionality.
  
  Flying in the game sucks, let me just say.. no flying cap.. and otherwise swimming has been revamped... 
 much joy iceskating. Interesting inputs with the wii remote, WII REMOTES WORKS AMZINGLY!!! The 
 reason i'm giving this game just a 9.0 is because of its difficulty level and shortness. I want 
 to work to get my stars. BUT I WAS DECIEVED! The second set of stars are a true challenge to get 
 and increase the game time tremendously.. true, one does not need alot of time to beat the bare 
 minimum, but the to get 120 stars is not a walk in the park.
  
  So this game is a must play for mario fans and everyone in general. If you are looking for giving 
 your younger siblings the same adventure you had as a kid, then definitly buy them this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glitchesofwar
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  On September 16th, after roughly two years of waiting, I was finally able to get my eager hands 
 on a copy of Super Mario Galaxy. As this game was essentially the reason I bought a wii, I was 
 obviously quite involved with its build up. The incredible quantity of media from Nintendo and 
 the very positive reviews were enough to increase my hopes to the extent that I knew in the pit 
 of my stomach that no game could live up to what I now expected from it.
  
  I was wrong. This game not only lived up to what I imagined it would be but it also just barely 
 fell short of what I imagined any game could be in terms of the experience dervied through playing 
 it.
  
  It would take a long time for me to write down everything I liked in this game so for everones 
 sake I will keep it brief. What impressed me the most was the originality of the level design, 
 the incredible graphics and effects, the use of past Mario themes and music, the variety of the 
 levels and power ups (which was sorely misseds in Sunshine) the length of the game and the minblowing 
 music score. I am sure many of you already know this so it seems pointless to go into any real 
 detail but I will say that the music was my most enjoyable aspect of the game.
  
  Having said that I am not misguided enough to proclaim this the 'perfect' game. I have a few criticisms. 
 The first of which is the inclusion of two comets on each main level. These comets were challenging 
 certainly but there were too many purple coin stages and by the end of the game that is pretty 
 much all I found myself doing. An extra main star would have added more depth and character to 
 each level. I also did not appreciate the gift of 5 1ups from Peach but I suppose that is quite 
 a minor complaint. I also wish that the game would re-use the fantastic melodies used on the Good 
 Egg and Gusty Galaxies. 
  
  In spite of these shortcomings I have still awarded this game a ten out of ten. My actual score 
 would have been 9.9, a tie with Zelda: Ocarina of Time. Which game I like better is something that 
 I still need to work out in my mind. What I can say is that Mario Galaxy is clearly my Game of 
 the Year as I feel that it is just so far ahead of any other game out there. I have enjoyed many 
 Wii60 titles this year but, in my view, nothing comes even close to my experience with this game. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic3456
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy (along with Halo 3) was the most anticipated game of the year and Mario fans 
 will be pleased, and even if your not a Mario fan you'll have a great time with this game. The 
 story starts off similar to Super Mario 64 where Peach send you an invitation, but for a different 
 reason there is a coment festival in the mushroom kingdom every hundred years, so everybody is 
 all happy and cheerful and nothing bad is going on. that is until Bowser shows up, he takes takes 
 peaches castle out of the groundand takes it into space. Mario tries to get to Bowser but one of 
 his goons knocks him off the castle bridge, peach think Mario's dead begins to lose hope, then 
 you go from there and get the typical rescue the princess storyline. Gameplay is extremely well 
 done, you move Mario with the joystick on the nunchuck, the Z-Button ducks, the C button fixes 
 the Camera, the A-Button the the Wii-Remote jumps, move the D-pad to change camera angles, B-Button 
 shoots star bits (don't do that to often) , point at the screen and move the Wii remote around to 
 collect star bits from a distance, and shakin the Wii Remote does the spin attack. The graphics 
 are easily the best we've seen on the Wii so far everything just looks amazing. The sound quality 
 is also really good the music is excellent` and the sound effects are really nice. The gane has 
 high replay value because you'll want to go back and get every single star (which I still have 
 to do) . The only real complaint I have is that there are no voice actors, nintendo needs to stop 
 with the text. But asside from that you are getting easily the best Mario game, the best Wii game, 
 and one of the greatest platformers of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiixx3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  At first I thought Super Mario Galaxy was going to be childish. Truth is the game is kind of childish, but 
 the gameplay is fantastic. the controls are on par to Metriod Prime 3 and Legend of Zelda. The 
 graphics are the best graphics on the wii yet. Just playing the levels is so ideal. There is so 
 much to do in Super Mario Galaxy that it makes it replayable and highly enjoyable. The camera in 
 the game is a bit off sometimes but you don't really notice it that much. I reccomend this game 
 to anyone who has a wii, and people who don't have a wii should buy a wii solely for this game. 
 It's that good people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsplayer1010
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit, I wasn't that excited for this game. I thought it would be good, but not great. 
 After playing this though, I knew I was wrong. This is one f the greatest games that I've ever 
 played.
  
  In terms of story, there's not much. Princess peach has been captured by Bowser, yet again, and 
 Mario has to go rescue her. There is also an optional side story involving a princess named Rosalina. 
 The gameplay, on the other hand, is where Galaxy really shines. It plays perfectly and doesn't use 
 the Wiimote in any unnecassary ways. The great gameplay is also backed up by amazing level designs. 
 Some of them have you moving around while the force of gravity changes, swimming, floating around 
 in a giant bubble, racing on a manta-ray, or rolling around on a glass ball. And that's barely 
 scratching the surface. There are dozens of galaxies. In some of these levels, Mario can get power-ups. 
 These range from classic power-ups such as the ability to shoot fireballs and invincibility, to 
 new ones like the the ability to change into a bee and the ability to change into a ghost. After 
 you complete each stage, you get a star. You need 60 stars to beat the game, but there are 120 
 in total. After you get all 120, you can replay all of these with Luigi, and you get a level that 
 only Luigi can get the star from.
  
  The game has great graphics. They are the best on the Wii yet. The game also has an amazing soundtrack. 
 easily the best of the year. 
  
  In conclusion, Super Mario Galaxy is an amazing game, it plays great, it sounds great, everything 
 is perfect. Bottom Line is, if you own a Wii, you must play this game.
  
  Gameplay:10
  Graphics: 10
  Sound:10
  Value: 10
  Tilt: 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo1001001
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  This is the third 3-D Mario platformer and and basically makes a few changes in gameplay. The story 
 is pretty simple as it is in all Mario games. Every 100 years, a comet passes over the Earth and 
 now it's that time again, so the Mushroom Kingdom holds a Star Festival to celebrate the newborn 
 stars. Bowser plans to use the power of the Grand Stars to make his own galaxy in the center of 
 the universe. He then steals Peach's castle and goes off into space. Mario gives chase, but gets 
 thrown off into a distant planet. Now it's up to Mario to find the Power and Grand Stars and save 
 Peach.
  
  The controls are very easy to get used to. You control Mario using the Nunchuck, crouch using the 
 Z button, and several jumps that involve the right timing. You use the Wii Remote in several ways: 
 you shake the remote to make Mario spin and to point at Star Bits to collect them. They take no 
 time to learn.
  
  You will be controlling Mario through space throughout the whole game. You start in a observatory 
 in which from there, you will be able to select different galaxies to go to. This is similar Peach's 
 castle in Super Mario 64 and Delfino Plaza in Super Mario Sunshine. You will have to collect stars 
 unlocking different galaxies until you have enough to unlock a reactor, in which you will have 
 to face off a boss and retrieve a Grand Star. There are over 40 galaxies in the game. Some galaxies 
 are made up of spherical planetoids, while others are just one huge, flat planet. Every galaxy 
 is fun and really creative in its own way whether it be going from a water planet straight to a 
 pillar in a sky or going into a spooky mansion.
  
  Along the way, you will come across many powerups. They are essential in beating the game. Some 
 powerups you get are the bumblebee costume which alows you to fly and the boo costume which allows 
 you to float and go through walls. Some old classics like Fire Mario return. They each serve a 
 purpose instead of being a gimmick for only one part.
  
  Another new mecanic to the game are Star Bits. They are very important and are needed to beat the 
 game fully. You collect them from enemies and can press the B button to shoot them at enemies to 
 stun them. You will occasionally run into a hungry Luma. You will need to feed them a certain amount 
 of Star Bits in order for them to transform. If you find one during a mission, it will transform 
 into a planet where you'll be able to find a hidden star. If you find one in the Observatory, it 
 will transform into a new galaxy where another hidden star can be found.
  
  The boss fights in this game are amazing. Even though none of the bosses are that challenging in 
 this game, they are really fun to fight against and you will usually have to think about what the 
 weak point of most bosses are. They are all unique in their own way whether it be a giant mandabug 
 or a boulder-covered spirit.
  
  The graphics are really something to look at here. Though not the best graphics, they look really 
 beautiful such as the gorgeous backgrounds, the water, and the fur design. Everything else is drawn 
 well to make it look like a 3-D cartoon, but with Mario in it. 
  
  The music is also something. Unlike most other games, the music here is orchestrated well, really 
 well. It's sounds just great and fits right into the level you are in. There are even orchestrated 
 remixs of classic Mario music such as the underground levels. The music never gets old and you 
 might just find yourself listening to it in a good dream.
  
  Occasionally, you will find a certain comet over a galaxy. You will then be challenged to a certain 
 mission whether it be finding all the purple coins, racing against a cosmic version of yourself, 
 beating a boss with only 1 life, the enemies speeding up, or having to beat a certain mission under 
 a time limit.
  
  There is also a feature known as Co-Star Mode. That is where your friend can use a Wii Remote to 
 point at the screen with the star cursor. The second person can help grab Star Bits, stop enemies 
 while the cursor is on them, and help you to jump higher.
  
  This game is a must for Wii owners. It's really fun and will take between 30 to 40 hours if you're 
 interested in finding all the stars. The only disappointment people might find in this game is 
 that you can just beat the story mode with only 60 stars. Nevertheless, this is a great game and 
 everybody should be able to experience this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpm6894
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario galaxy has a good game play it provides great diversity in all the galaxies and is 
 very creative in its approach to gamers. Its lack of difficulty though is appalling. After 18 hrs 
 i had around 60 stars! I beat the game at around 20 hrs and i never came close to running out of 
 lives. In Mario 64 your mind would be boggled on what to do and in some cases you might spend 3 
 days on a certain star. In galaxy for one star, your not dying more than once or twice for one 
 star. I admit the graphics are amazing and it provides great creativity but it hasn't lived up 
 to Mario 64 just because of lack of difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geraldo18
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Ahm, ok, it's quite obvious SMG has greater graphics than Super Mario Sunshine... Wii is one generation 
 ahead of Game Cube, duh. It WAS SUPPOSED to be obvious... Oh yes, Nintendo isn't on the "fight 
 for graphics"... Too bad. Their controller which hasn't proved to be fully functional is the amusement.
 
  
  Yeah, that's true, Super Mario Galaxy gives us opportunity to be compared to Super Mario Sunshine, 
 so GameSpot compares. People even have difficulty in finding great difference. Ok, I agree the 
 graphics are better, but it should be ASTOUNDINGLY better in graphics. Come on, 6 years have been 
 since the release of Game Cube. Soon Nintendo will pass away due to its lack of perfection. Compare 
 PS3 performance for example.
  
  However, even though the graphics look good, the gameplay which should be the strong feature in 
 Wii, story and the game structure as a whole do not please me very much.
  
  Those planets are simply solid spherical small platforms from which you might or might not fall 
 to death. They are linearly organized, so if you got one way, you'll have to try the whole galaxy 
 again to go another.
  
  What I found most disappointing about the planetary system is that you get thrown from one planet 
 to another without controlling the track. I assumed you could jump away from a planet and fly free 
 though the galaxy. Something like Microsoft Freelancer. I wonder why, if once we had a game with 
 such freedom, can't the game industry improve based on what's been released. They tend to get stuck 
 and not evolve.
  
  The gameplay doesn't seem to use the remote to its full potential, I mean, how many games will 
 make real good use of the Wii controller. I had great trouble myself swinging the sword in Twilight 
 Princess, and ended up just striking the air up and down like a whip to hit some mobs.
  
  Guess I just got carried away with that idea of the future gaming based on interactive controller 
 and that Xbox 360 and PS3 are just their predecessors tuned up. VERY WELL TUNED, I'd say.
  
  To close my complains on having bought the game. It is just resembles to me a Super Mario 64 
 2, bringing back the clothes stuff from SNES and some Wii controller features. Killing enemies 
 now can be done by spinning like Mario used to do on Paper Mario, but it's based on the jump attack 
 and good aim on the landing that made Super Mario 64 a classic... Reborn. I sincerely expected 
 more from a game that got 9.5 from GameSpot... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Mario is One of the Most Reconizeable Video Game Character ever. He has Been Kart Racing, Playing 
 Sports, Having Parties, and even getting his degree in the Medical Fields! One thing we all know 
 that there are so many Mario titles out on the market.. some are good.. but some are bad! Those 
 games are what i call spinoff Mario games. They are not a real platforming mario game. After a 
 so-so Sunshine after a video game changing Super Mario 64.. Mario is going into space on what i 
 think is the best 3D mario game ever!
  
  Like Most Mario Games the story is a joke.. and this one not much better.. like always peach invites 
 you to her castle, this time for a Comet Festival. Like Always Bowser always ruins the fun of the 
 Festival.. he swoops down.. and literally tears the castle from the ground.. takes peach into space.. 
 and blast mario into a distant planet.. Mario then Meets up with another Pricess hottie in Princess 
 Roseline. She has a space craft but you need to collect stars to get enough power to get to peach 
 and bowser.. This is really a boring story and with the exception of the beginning of the game 
 there is not one other Cinema cut scene! The story, and story persentation are about the only weak 
 points of the game... But what are you really playing for?? the Game of course!
  
  Mario Galaxy is a platformer just like every other mario game before it.. But this takes everyting 
 we know about Platforming and changes it! You will not be just jumping from different platforms, 
 or on one place the entire game.. No you are platforming, backwards, sidewords, frontwords.. and 
 any other wards you can think of.. You are platforming in Large/small planets.. sometimes you have 
 to go upside down to get a star! everything we though we knew about platformers have been changed 
 right here! 
  
  Its not just the extreme platforming changes.. it also how they make the levels.. you have a main 
 area the space craft.. but you go into different rooms to go to different sub galaxies in the region. 
 Each galaxy is very different.. but all are colorful and entertaining.. There are all kinds of 
 powerups like Bee Mario, Ice Mario, Fire Mario, and others.. all give mario different moves.. most 
 are exicuted well.. but if i have to be nit pickly i would say that Fire Mario should not be temporary.. 
 and spring Mario is hard to controls.. but those are just nit picky.. as i said the game is not 
 perfect its got some dents here and there.. 
  
  Graphics look amazing in this game.. Compare to other Wii games on the market Mario's Graphics 
 are Otta this world! they are so much better then anything eles on the market for wii.. Its not 
 just the colors, and smoothness of the game.. the art is fenominal.. Bowser looks great, Mario 
 looks so smooth, and the galaxies are bright and smooth.. unreal looking witch really fits mario.. 
 Also the Bosses have tons of personality.. even if they are too easy like most of them these days. 
 Its just fun to look around the world.. cause it looks so nice.
  
  Another Cool part that Nintendo Put into this game is the effect of gravity... You will get pulled 
 into different planets/ comets so its fun just to jump around and see where you end up.. but you 
 gotta be careful.. some don't pull you in and then you will fly into a Black Hole.. Not good at 
 all..
  
  The Controls of Mario Galaxy are surprisingly great! They thankfully did not over use the wii's 
 motion controls.. you still want jumping and moving to use buttons.. But you use the curser on 
 the screen to pick up star bits (used for currency to feed to fat stars) you have a slight wiggle 
 of your wrist to spin mario for his famous attack.. There are also side things that use the wii 
 remote like Devil Ray boarding. It could be annoying but they do great things with the wii remote 
 without having you use the wii remote like a baton, or handle bar if you know what i mean..
  
  Mario Galaxy does so many things right.. its fun, colorful, entertaining, and it gives you 
 the want to collect every star and everything the game has to offer.. Its easy enough for kids 
 to play, but its entertaining enough for hardcore mario gamers.. This game beats out Zelda as the 
 top Wii game.. but will that last? Brawl will be out in a few months so we will have to see.. But 
 i think this is one game we will always remember.. and will always be a top 3 Wii Game!
  
  Breakdown
  Gameplay: Fun great level design.. making everything we love about platforming, and 
 running away with it taking this to a whole new Galaxy! 
  Graphics: Hands down best looking Wii Game on the market.. Great colors and art design is fantastic!!
 
  Sound: lots of classic Mario tunes.. as well as new tunes! but they can get repetitive and there 
 are repeats..
  Value: 120 stars to collect.. some sort of multiplayer would have been nice.. but it will take 
 a while to get all the stars
  Overall: Best 3D mario.. and top 5 Mario game of all time for me.. Mario Shows that he is still 
 dominate, and platforming is not dead!!
  
  Final Score
  9.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ping5000
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  If there is one game that defines the Wii, Super Mario Galaxy is it. If there's a game that defines 
 a generation, Super Mario Galaxy is one of them. It's that good. This is the best game that Nintendo 
 has created in years, which says a lot, considering their pedigree. Super Mario Galaxy is in essence, 
 a phenomenally fun game that has the ability to make you naturally smile because it's so wonderfully 
 entertaining. Super Mario Galaxy isn't just one of the best platformers ever, but it's also possibly 
 one of the best games ever.
  
  The game starts with a brief backstory and a letter from Peach stating, "There's something I'd 
 like to give you." And with that, Mario's curiosity spurs him into a reimagined Mushroom Kingdom. 
 It's a fantastic scene. Dozens upon dozens of toads are celebrating the Star Festival, an event 
 that occurs every 100 years when tiny little star bits land gently onto the earth. In short, the 
 greatest meteor shower ever. The castle looms above the distance, and the lake casts a visually 
 eye-popping reflection of the castle. The buildings off to the sides glow with life and jets of 
 water shoot up into the air. It's a whimsical scene, but it's interrupted quite abruptly by Bowser. 
 His latest plan is to rip the castle out of the sky, taking Peach with him. The plan works and 
 Mario goes into chase-mode with a little help from Rosalina -- a fairly hot fairy-lady. It's the 
 same tired old kidnapping scenario, but the way it's presented is something else. The cinematography 
 is great and the presentation is top-notch. This quality carries onto the rest of the game. It 
 doesn't change the fact that the story isn't compelling, but the presentation makes it worth watching. 
 And Bowser finally has his menace back. Awesome.
  
  But we're here to play a Mario game, right? And in that regard, it's just simply amazing. Mario's 
 movesets haven't changed much. He can still long-jump, backflip, triple jump and all that jazz. 
 His melee is now a spin attack, which can be initiated by a quick shake of the Wii remote. It feels 
 great, and the quick charge-up time keeps it from being overpowering. In general, Mario's controls 
 are pitch-perfect and it's tweaked and polished to the point that just running around is fun. The 
 core structure also remains the same; you collect stars which open more areas, which lead to more 
 stars, and so on. And that's where all the similarities end. Each new Mario platformer has always 
 tried to do something fundamentally different, and this time the new key players are gravity and 
 planetoids. It's an original concept with tons of potential, and Nintendo exploits it an infinite 
 number of times.
  
  What this means is, every single piece of real estate you step on will have its own pull and force. 
 Smaller objects and planets obviously have a weak pull; you can actually go around a planet from 
 a single jump. Bigger ones have a much more "normal" Mario-platformer rules of physics. Just screwing 
 around with gravity is a ton of fun; guessing where you're going to end up is a game unto itself. 
 But it becomes much more involving when it affects you in such a manner that you can't tell if 
 you're standing right-side up anymore. Are you platforming upside down? Are you actually platforming 
 backwards, while actually being right-side up? Or is it upside down? It's just really insane, but 
 it's presented in such a thoughtful manner that it never becomes overwhelming thanks to the level 
 design and camera.
  
  The level design is what makes this game, just like any platformer, but the amount of creativity 
 injected into all the levels is something to be commended. The way it manages to strike an impeccable 
 balance between new and old platforming concepts is quite the accomplishment. You'll have to play 
 the game to find out, because saying anything at all would certainly ruin some key moments. The 
 camera should get some award. Even though it screws up once in a while, it never ever disorientates 
 you, even if you're not sure if you're upside down anymore. There are also many excellent 2-D, 
 side scroller-esque areas, when the gravity shifts according to the arrows which indicate what 
 the hell's going to happen if you happen to jump onto a section with a different pull. They're 
 a ton of fun, and the way the gravity concept is integrated with traditional and new platformer 
 levels are a joy to be a part of.
  
  The new being planets. For the most part, you'll be launching yourself from one planet to another 
 in a very epic fashion. A quick shake of your remote while on a Launch Star will send you soaring 
 into space; cinematic angles included. With the setting being in space, Nintendo has the all the 
 creative freedom in the world, and damn, does Nintendo let loose here. There's so much variety, 
 to the point that Nintendo could've created 3 separate games with all the insane stuff they threw 
 in here. There's no sense of cohesion at all (in a good way) , because there are planets in the 
 sky without a reason except to entertain you. Off in the distance, there's an epic-sized Yoshi 
 head, just drifting out there in space. Why? How come this galaxy's crafted from legos and toy 
 blocks? It doesn't make any sense. It's nonsensical and random. These hodgepodges of ideas and 
 settings are so ridiculous that it's hard not to smile. It can't be helped. As incoherent as everything 
 is, there's a wondrous quality to it all, encouraging exploration and to soar into the next frontier. 
 Every flight into the air is an adventure, as you wonder where you're going to end up next with 
 bated breath.
  
  If you're a traditionalist and that bothers the hell out of you, there is a healthy amount of traditional 
 big Mario 64/Sunshine-like levels. The gravity plays a minor role, but the power-ups come into 
 play here. There are a ton of power-ups in the game, and each of them is really fun to use. Throughout 
 the course of your adventure, you'll be transforming into a bee, a human spring, an ice man and 
 much more. They never become truly integral into the whole experience, but they're a blast to use 
 in the context of the galaxy. The same can be said for the motion sensing bits. Ray surfing is 
 tough to come to grips with, as you twist your wrist to steer your manta ray, but it works well 
 enough. The second bit has you holding the remote like a flightstick, and you tilt the remote like 
 a joystick to control Mario while he's on a ball. Sega, thank Nintendo for your new Super Monkey 
 Ball control scheme because it works like a charm.
  
  The can-only-be-done-on-Wii element that does remain important throughout the game is your cursor. 
 Aiming with it is a snap, and you'll use it for things like guiding Mario while in a bubble by 
 using the cursor to blow at it. For the most part, however, you're going to use it to get star 
 bits and then using those star bits offensively, defensively and as a form of bribery. Collecting 
 star bits is incredibly addicting, and all it requires you to do is simply point at these little 
 buggers. Shooting them at enemies can stun them and feeding these bits to cute little stars called 
 lumas might result in totally new planets. You can also get an extra cursor on the screen by getting 
 a buddy to help out. It's Galaxy's co-op mode and your friend will be able to pick up and shoot 
 star bits just like you can, but he can also stun enemies by hovering over them and then pressing 
 them down. Mario can also jump higher if both of you time your button press. Its pretty fun, especially 
 if you're helping a lesser skilled player because they ask you save their lives more than once.
 
  
  As polished, and phenomenal the gameplay is, the graphics might equally be as good. Galaxy is just 
 straight up the Wii's best-looking game and it's just so visually accomplished that it looks as 
 good as many 360/PS3 games. Not sometimes, but always. The simple art style certainly helps, but 
 Nintendo pushes the technical boundaries of its console, too. Specular maps, real-time reflections 
 and a ton of other technical feats are executed deftly here and it all rounds out at a smooth 60 
 frames, rarely ever pouting when things get busy. It helps that practically all the galaxies have 
 a totally different look from one another, making it fresh throughout the entire adventure. Galaxy's 
 visuals prove that developers have been lazy as hell when it comes to Wii games visually, and all 
 the claims of the Wii not being able to push better-than-GC visuals are completely unfounded.
 
  
  If that's not enough, the sound is just as fantastic. Much of Galaxy's soundtrack is orchestrated, 
 and the results are phenomenal. Simply put, Galaxy has one of the best video game soundtracks in 
 the last 5 years. The compositions are epic, sweeping, serene and have a distinct Mario tone to 
 it all. It's also quite dynamic. For example, when you get Bowser into a panic, a choir kicks in 
 to make your mind explode. The sound effects too are Nintendo-quality, with different surfaces 
 creating different, punctual sounds and the general ambiance noises gel well with the environment. 
 Voice acting is scarce once again, with the opening letter from the beginning representing the 
 only major bit of voice acting. It's not sorely missed however, because the audio package in general 
 is so outstanding, and conversations rarely last past a minute.
  
  The game at first feels brief. The road to the first 60 stars (that nets you the ending and credits) 
 lasts anywhere between 6-10 hours, when factoring in your skill level. However, much of it has 
 to do with a genuine lack of difficulty while going after the first 60. There are moments when 
 your mettle will be tested, but those are rare instances. It's impossible to deny that the ride's 
 fun, though. The next 60 on the other hand, is a whole different beast. These are some of the most 
 challenging levels in Mario's three-dimensional history, with one in particular that might drive 
 you up the wall. Also, some of the levels you've already completed will be replayable for stars. 
 They come with new handicaps, such as faster enemies or going through a level with only one energy 
 bar. These are tough challenges, but the later galaxies in general get progressively more challenging, 
 requiring you to be a hell of a lot more acrobatic and experimental with Mario's moves. The next 
 60 stars last 10-15 hours and these 60 are much more rewarding and fun. It sounds ridiculous, but 
 yeah, the game gets better.
  
  When it comes down to it, Super Mario Galaxy is a phenomenal game. It's worth getting a Wii for 
 just this game. It's a game that comes every 5 years and shoots down all the competition with grace. 
 For all the ambitious space operas, shooters that push technological boundaries, and compelling 
 story-intensive games that are genuinely powerful, a quaint plumber with a one-track mind comes 
 in and well, humbly demolishes its competition. Sure, it's true, some of the levels aren't as memorable, 
 the hub doesn't have much in the way of secrets and the camera can become problematic. You know 
 how it is, a game never truly is perfect, but when they come close, like Super Mario Galaxy does, 
 that's good enough. But if you think that's total bullpop, it doesn't change the fact that Super 
 Mario Galaxy is a masterpiece, and it's something that'll be remembered and referenced for years 
 to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irot
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  Incredible, As soon as I started playing this game I felt like I was 14 again playing with my N64. 
 The Gampelay is superb, the Level design is awesome and amazing, something that has never been 
 seen before in a videogame (try jumping off an edge and be captured by gravity on the bottom part 
 of the planet) .
  
  Incredible and mind challenging "puzzles", some easy and some hard stars to collect and best of 
 all, no water gun, this makes a superb game and true sequel to Mario 64. For the newbies, it has 
 a smooth level design, easy to pick up controls (up to two players which I enjoy because now my 
 gf can play Mario :oP) and addictive star collecting
  
  For the veterans, it has an awesome music selection, some of the best of the Mario Bros. games 
 (also the original soundtrack is beautiful to listen) , has a lots of Mario old moves and tricks.
 
  
  On the dark side of the moon (haha, of the moon, because its "galaxy"... get it...?) The game sometimes 
 makes the leap from easy to hard too drastically, and some of the hardest stars may become too 
 frustrating to get. It also feels like a short game but with tons of replay value.
  
  Theres no question, if you own a wii, you must have this game, before it was released my Game 
 of the Year was for Bioshock; but this game is now my fav. Give it a try, you wont regret it! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TWD98
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is the sequel to sunshine and 64. This game has absolutely amazing graphics, 
 awesome powerups, and level designs that will make you think of how did they come up with this. 
 There 120 stars in the game but there are different types of stars unlike the other mario games. 
 There are power stars, grand stars, green stars and a red star. Threee green stars will unlock 
 3 new galaxys that are extremely hard. The grand stars are gigantic stars that you get for beating 
 bowser and bowser jr, they restore the orb in the middle of the galaxy place where you start. The 
 red star, well, you'll have to find that out. :)
  Mario can also turn into numerous different things such as a bee, a ghost, fire mario, ice mario, 
 rainbow mario, spring mario, and one other that I wont spoil for you. Bee mario can float for limited 
 time and climb on honeycombs. boo mario can disapear through mirrors and cages and can also float 
 by pressing the A button. fire mario can shoot fire balls at enemies. Ice mario can walk on water 
 and turns it to ice when you step on it. Spring mario bounces around like crazy and jumps higher 
 when you press A as soon as he hits the ground. Rainbow mario makes you able to knock over anything 
 that stands in your way. Mario Galaxy is a must have for anyone who has a wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eastwick_playa7
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  You start off in a small little planet chasing bunnies. Soon you begin to go to more expansive 
 galaxies that seem to keep you wanting to go back and find every little thing. Mario shows off 
 his newest moves and spellbinding jumps. Enemies seem to be funner to beat than ever before and 
 boss battles are epic. Just like Super Mario 64, you must face and beat Bowser thrice. But the 
 one thing that stands out the most about this game is the beautiful graphics making Mario look 
 as realistic as ever.
  Rosetta, also known as "mama" to Lumas, seems to be a new character in the Mario franchise. Lumas 
 are very hungry and enjoy eating star bits as much as you enjoy collecting them, but watch out 
 because if you feed them to much they will TRANSFORM!!!! 
  All in all, Super Mario Galaxy is, in one word, "unforgettable". WOOHOO!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Deepblue
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  The platforming genre has been around for over 20 years. Back when the Nintendo Entertainment System 
 was first released in 1985 it was bundled with a little game known as Super Mario Bros. It was 
 the first game to feature a real story (though not an amazing one) , and was the first 2d platformer. 
 It was a huge success, and still holds the title as being the greatest selling game of all time. 
 The title also became the standard by which all games, not only platformers, were measured. The 
 game was more than just a huge success in itself. It revamped a pretty much industry. It was considered 
 insanity for Nintendo to jump in and release a video gaming console when the industry was already 
 on the brink of death. Good thing Nintendo thought otherwise. Over 22 years later, after timeless 
 classic after timeless classic, the Mario series is still one of those timeless series that everyone 
 gets excited for. It's still one of those series in which, when you think you have seen and done 
 it all, Miyamoto and company twist and bend the rules a bit to deliver a game that is uniquely 
 and impressively original and almost flawless in every aspect. It seems that in almost once in 
 a generation the Mario series delivers up a game that just blows everybody's pants clean off. Mario 
 Galaxy could be the futuristic cousin of Super Mario Bros. 3. Super Mario Bros. 2 was a very odd 
 departure from the first game. Just as Super Mario Sunshine felt much different than Super Mario 
 64. Super Mario Galaxy however, just as Super Mario Bros. 3 did with the original Super Mario Bros., 
 borrows from the roots of Super Mario 64, and adds a whole lot more. One little thing known as 
 gravity (or lack there of) makes such a big difference, and provides for a slew of innovative, 
 classic 3d inspired, simply awesome platforming levels and challenges. 
  
  The game starts off with Mario getting a letter (an invitation) from Princess Peach. Figuring that 
 he may be able to visit his love without so much chaos this time, Mario makes his way to the castle. 
 Just as the game starts you will be in immediately in love with the game's animation, visual design, 
 technical suspect of the graphics, and certainly impressed with the wonderfully orchestrated music 
 and great sound effects. After fiddling with and getting used to the controls Bowser and his baddies 
 show up to kidnap Peach and take the whole darn castle along with him. Not the best story in the 
 world, but the production values and presentation are phenomenal. The opening cut scene is also 
 a dramatic difference from that in Mario Sunshine, or in any other Mario game to date for that 
 matter. By this I mean it's the most awesome start to any Mario game ever. After the castle is 
 stolen Mario is blasted into space by one of Bowser's famous minions. He wakes up on a strange 
 spherical world where a luma (creatures that look like stars) awakes him. From here your journey 
 throughout the universe begins. You'll be making your way through many different worlds inspired 
 by weather elements, haunted mansions, celestial themes, and just plain wackiness. You'll be able 
 to choose from these levels in the Observatory. Which is basically like the "Castle" from Mario 
 64 or "Delfino Square" from Super Mario Sunshine. The disappointing side to the Observatory is 
 that there isn't much to do there but to select what galaxies you want to go and explore. It's 
 not as exciting as the Castle or even as exciting as Delfino Square in Sunshine. It is easy and 
 accessible for going to where you want to go however. Like in the other two great 2d Mario adventures, 
 120 stars (or Shine Sprites for "Sunshine") have been scattered throughout the universe and it's 
 up to Mario to go retrieve them all in order to save his love. Mario controls like a breeze. The 
 controls are perfect and Mario controls much tighter than what he did in "Sunshine" making for 
 smooth platforming. Mario has only one physical attack this time around and really it is all you 
 need. By simply shaking the Wii-mote (or the nun-chuck) Mario will do a spin move which will knock 
 most enemies flat on their back, and when they're on their back you can run up to them and Mario 
 will perform a very satisfying auto-kick. You can also beat enemies by jumping on them as well, 
 of course. Super Mario Galaxy also brings a handful of awesome new power-ups to the table as well. 
 Such as bee Mario, fire Mario, Ice Mario, and Boo Mario. Each one of the costumes were a blast 
 to play with, even the controversial (and sometimes annoying) spring Mario was nice. You'll never 
 spend much time doing one thing long, and there are plenty of things to discover throughout the 
 universe in Mario Galaxy. Most of the galaxies are made up of a core area and then a bunch of smaller 
 surrounding galaxies of different shapes and sizes. You're able to access these galaxies by jumping 
 into orange stars that blast you off into the air and eventually gets you to that area. Some areas 
 and stages can only be unlocked by feeding hungry lumas. Lumas are cute little creatures that look 
 like stars with faces. Lumas love to eat star bits (the game's currency) and transform into new 
 worlds. You can collect star bits when you see them by gracing your cursor over them or by simply 
 grabbing them with Mario. Mario still has a health circle and it's three hits you're dead. Three 
 hits seems to be exactly the right amount of health points for the game. You're able to find power-ups 
 that will increase your health temporarily, but when you exit that galaxy or die, your health goes 
 back to the default three points. Running around the small, strangely shaped worlds in Mario Galaxy 
 is a blast, and it's pure joy when you discover a new one. The game doesn't utilize the Wii-mote 
 motion sensor controls as much as you may think. When the game does require you to hold, point, 
 or use the sensor controls it doesn't feel forced on you, randomly thrown in, or even gimmicky. 
 In fact the game does a great job with the challenges that do require you to use the motion sensor 
 controls exclusively. The camera stays right behind Mario almost 100% of the time making for good 
 control and camera view at all times. Not to say that maybe once or twice in a few areas of the 
 game the controls didn't suddenly become awkward, or the camera did not make me a bit fussy, but 
 it's really not much to squawk over, or really anything you will remember. There is only one gripe 
 I have concerning the camera however. I am not always able to shift the camera left or right when 
 I please or need be. I am also not able to view everything around me through first person perspective 
 either. But these minor gripes aren't enough for me to take away from the game's score. In fact 
 it's quite easy to get over them, and they're not really all that needed. Like any Super Mario 
 game the platforming is top notch. The first 60 stars are relatively easy to obtain if you're a 
 Mario veteran, but the final 60 are much more challenging. [The boss battles in Super Mario Galaxy 
 are just simply awesome. Especially the encounters with Mario's Koopa rival, Bowser. 
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is the greatest looking game I have ever owned and the prettiest game for Nintendo's 
 Wii console. Character animation (during game play) sometimes looks like a fantastic 3d animated 
 movie. The art style is absolutely fantastic. The game at core has a celestial theme centered around 
 it, but unlike "Sunshine" the game doesn't just focus or revolve around that one theme or art style. 
 You'll travel to many galaxies with many different themes. On the technical side Super Mario Galaxy 
 is also great. Everything looks smooth, clean, and perfectly animated. Only maybe a couple of times 
 throughout the entire game did I experience any lag time when a bunch of things were happening 
 on screen at once. And even then, the lag time only lasted for a few seconds before the game was 
 back at full speed. Super Mario Galaxy delivers quite a bit of fan service. You'll encounter many 
 enemies from past Mario games and hear many remixed and orchestrated classic Mario tunes all right 
 here. The entire soundtrack overall is absolutely amazing. I found myself humming, even whistling 
 multiple tunes from the game throughout my day. Galaxy is a game packed with content and will keep 
 you busy for quite some time. There are a lot of hidden areas and items throughout the levels and 
 a lot of places to concoct gravitational experiments. I myself am 99 stars into the game and I 
 am still enjoying discovering the next new planet to explore. The game is still almost a fresh 
 and fun as it was when I got the first star. I can't wait to see how this game is going to reward 
 me next, and the good thing is I know I will not be disappointed. Super Mario Galaxy delivers in 
 almost every way. It executes everything it uniquely does flawlessly and bravely crowns itself 
 as the new king of platformers by doing so. Compared to Super Mario 64 this is the best game. It 
 also blows Super Mario Sunshine clean out of the water. I have only given one game a rating of 
 10.0 in all my years of gaming, and that game was Resident Evil 4 for the Nintendo Gamecube [2005] . 
 I didn't know that so soon I would be playing another game of this caliber. Super Mario Galaxy 
 is one of those games in which you will find it extremely difficult to find any fault in it at 
 all.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: glitchgeeman
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 11:06 pm PT
Review:  I thought that in my entire life as a gamer, I would never run into a perfect game. Not even Ocarina 
 of Time was perfect in my eyes. But here it is, the perfect game. Super Mario Galaxy not only excels 
 in excellent level design and gameplay, but with colorful graphics and an amazing soundtrack, this 
 Mario game proves itself not only to be a revolutionary change, but also one of the best games 
 of the entire series.
  
  Every 100 years, there's a comet that arrives at the Mushroom Kingdom, and everyone celebrates 
 it in an event called the Star Festival. Things seem to be going perfectly until lo and behold, 
 Bowser comes to steal Peach's entire castle and airlift it into space. Thus, it's up to our heroic 
 plumber to once again save the damsel in distress along with the entire universe. The story is 
 simple, but gets the job done and convinces you keep getting those stars.
  
  You start out at a central hub, similar to Delfino Plaza of Mario Sunshine and the Castle in Mario 
 64, where you will be transported to the various levels, here, called galaxies that will allow 
 you to collect all the stars. There are various hubs, called observatories that hold four or five 
 galaxies each, with each of those galaxies having between one to five stars available for the taking. 
 As you get more stars, you will unlock more galaxies, allowing you to explore more areas.
  
  The level design of Super Mario Galaxy is genius. Whether you're manta ray surfing, dodging 
 a barrage of cannonballs, climbing a volcano that is slowly sinking into lava for dear life, or 
 simply catching a ride on a giant floating dandelion, each and every level will feel amazing and 
 unique to you. The gravity system also works beautifully here. While gravity is the same on all 
 galaxies, it works in many different ways. You can run around entire planets, finding secrests 
 on the bottom, or on certain levels, you can change it so that you can reach new areas now that 
 your standing on what was once the ceiling. In general, the gameplay of Galaxy is top-notch, and 
 you will never be bored.
  
  The graphics are some of the best the Wii has to offer. Many people will call the Wii a "gamecube 
 with waggle." Well, first of all, those people are fanboys and should be shunned by society. Second 
 of all, those people are utterly wrong, and Galaxy proves that. From the colorful planets to the 
 beautifully rendered characters, everything about Galaxy is graphically easy on the eyes. Whether 
 it be the flower petals blowing in the wind, the dirt dug up by a nearby mole, or the lava shooting 
 from the ground, Galaxy is also a visual masterpiece.
  
  After playing Super Mario Galaxy. I have come to realize that in some cases, sound is more important 
 than visuals. All of Galaxy's sounds are perfect. Mario "yahoo's" and "whoo's" just like always, 
 fitting in perfectly with all the other ambient noises like cannon fire, buzzing bees, and sparkling 
 stars. The music is well orchestrated and every theme fits. From the explorative theme of the Good 
 Egg Galaxy to the epic chorus that sounds when you fight Bowser, every piece of music is amazing 
 and after hearing it, you will have it in your head for days, if not weeks.
  
  In general, Super Mario Galaxy is an amazing game. With 120 stars, many of them hidden and hard 
 to find, this game will last you a while. Even if you only go for the required 60, you will find 
 that this game will last you at least 15-20 hours. Add in the secret stars, comet challenges, and 
 the such, this game will last you much much longer. Overall, with amazing gameplay, stunning visuals, 
 and a beautifully orchestrated soundtrack, Super Mario Galaxy is indeed one of the best games this 
 generation has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carolynmichelle
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Some people have very high expectations for Mario games. For people who grew up with games like 
 Super Mario Bros. 3 and Super Mario World, truly some of the best, most purely enjoyable games 
 ever created, the series has established a very high mark for itself. In our memories, tinted with 
 nostalgia, these games have taken on a level of greatness that makes them a truly tough act to 
 follow. But it's not enough just to please those who recall playing the heck out of Super Mario 
 Bros. in 1986. Those games were some time ago, now, and there are whole new generations to whom 
 Mario's legendary franchise needs to appeal. Is it possible to create a game that feels true to 
 the style of gameplay and the sense of delight and fun some associate with the classic Mario games, 
 yet simultaneously feels totally fresh and exciting? Super Mario Galaxy proves that the answer 
 is a resounding, amazing, stupendous "Yes!"
  
  The story of Super Mario Galaxy is really nothing new. As the game begins, it's the night of the 
 Mushroom Kingdom's centennial Star Festival, and Mario is on his way to the castle of Princess 
 Peach when, shock of shocks, Bowser crashes the party. He says some scary stuff about creating 
 a new galaxy and tears Peach's castle right out of the ground, then flies off into space with the 
 castle in tow. In order to rescue Peach and defeat Bowser, Mario will need to recover stars that 
 have been scattered across numerous galaxies. As you progress through the game, you'll learn a 
 bit more about Rosalina, the keeper of the Comet Observatory from which Mario sets out on his star-rescuing 
 missions, but don't expect a lot of cutscenes or voice acting or plot development. You won't find 
 it here.
  
  What you will find is lots and lots of really amazing gameplay. Super Mario Galaxy may not be the 
 obvious leap for the serious that Super Mario 64 represented, but in its own, less immediately 
 apparent way, Galaxy is just as innovative, and in terms of level design and gameplay, Galaxy is 
 the better game. In fact, it's quite simply the greatest platformer of the 3d era. It's not easy 
 to pinpoint why this is, because it's actually the result of so many elements coming together so 
 brilliantly. While Super Mario 64 felt liberating because it gave Mario the freedom to move in 
 three dimensions, Galaxy feels similarly liberating for the freedom it gives you to soar through 
 the sky with the help of launch stars and leap between the gravitational fields of nearby worlds.
 
  
  The game controls perfectly, and makes terrific use of the Wii's motion-sensing abilities. As you 
 move through the levels, you can aim the Wii remote around to gather up star bits, which you'll 
 need for various things like gaining access to the occasional new galaxy. This adds another layer 
 of activity to the game without distracting from the strength of the fundamental action of just 
 moving Mario around, jumping, spinning, soaring through the air, swimming, butt-stomping and doing 
 all the other things Mario does so well. There are also other elements, like pull stars and sling 
 pods, which incorporate the motion sensor in simple, fun ways. 
  
  There are a total of around 120 stars in the game, and you'll need at least 60 of them to take 
 on Bowser. That may sound like a lot, but the challenges that collecting the various stars present 
 are so varied and so consistently enjoyable that you won't find yourself growing the least bit 
 tired of star collecting. More likely, the game will still be surprising you with its fiendishly 
 clever level design all the way to the end. (And the game doesn't have to end at 120 stars if you 
 don't want it to. If you make it to that point, you'll unlock a neat little bonus that may give 
 you some incentive to play even more.) Some stars are easy to get. Some are quite tough. But nearly 
 all of them are a whole lot of fun, and even the really hard levels are more likely to have you 
 trying them again and again with a grin on your face rather than getting frustrated, because although 
 some of the levels are diabolical, they never feel unfair.
  
  This game isn't just a pleasure to play. It's also an absolute joy to behold. The sharp, vibrant, 
 colorful worlds of Super Mario Galaxy's galaxies look better than anything else we've seen on the 
 Wii so far, and create environments that exude the infectiously happy mood this game aims to create. 
 The sound isn't as consistently impressive as the visuals, and the fact that every mushroom retainer 
 sounds a bit like Marge Simpson can get a bit grating, but the music is solid throughout and periodically 
 outstanding.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is a joyous experience, and even those who have no nostalgic emotional investment 
 in the Mario games will have an absolute blast with it. But perhaps its greatest achievement is 
 that, for those of us old enough to remember the sense of wonder and fun to be had in Mario's earlier 
 adventures, this game lives up to our outrageously high expectations, our hopes and dreams of what 
 a Mario game should be. That is no small accomplishment. Super Mario Galaxy is the best game of 
 the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentBliss
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Mario returns in one of his best adventures yet! Well this game is a must buy don't rent it cause 
 you'll regret not buying it. The graphics for the game are amazing like others have already said 
 it is truly the first game that pushes the consoles graphical power. The story I would say is not 
 better than that of Mario Sunshine or Super Mario 64 but the game-play is the best out of the bunch. 
 The Wii controls are excellent they are used in a very interesting way especially the surfing, 
 but it does take some time to get use to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: railszach
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Let's set the bar straight: Mario Galaxy outclasses Mario 64 in every conceivable paradigm. It 
 has single handedly made the platforming genre viable again with the genius of Miyamato. It introduces 
 multiplayer for the first time since the series has entered 3D, and adapts to the Wii controls 
 very well. The worlds are perfectly constructed with the art style retained from the previous mario 
 titles, and several new power ups are welcome additions. The game makes some small strides in the 
 storytelling aspect as well, although you probably won't be too interested. Getting all 120 stars 
 nets you a surprise that I won; t spoil here, but is a real homage to the nintendo die hards who 
 are willing to invest the time in to get all the stars. But I wan't to get to where the game really 
 shines: The Boss Battles and Music. The Music is made up of some awesome new editions that will 
 definitely become classics with the passage of time, and has enhanced versions of some Mario 64 
 tunes as well as those from his 2D adventures. The game also provides you with incentive to visit 
 old worlds with the appearence of luigi and special comets that make you do weird things in the 
 levels. Whoever came up with that should be given the nobel peace prize..... lol But the boss battles 
 are also awesome and there are many. You get several new imaginative bosses and a couple returning 
 favorites, but I won't spoil the thrills, simply because this game is so great you have to experience 
 it for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteveXLR
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 8:23 pm PT
Review:  A single word could not possibly summarize how great and fantastic this game really is! So here 
 I am ,SteveXLR, About to blow your world!.... er um, GALAXY!
  
  So I'm going to run this review a little differently than my other reviews I'm going to focus on 
 three different categories: Story, Graphics, and Gameplay
  
  Story~
  The Story is pretty solid going by the usual Mario rules of getting stars, battleing enemies, and 
 obviously rescuing a certain Princes ,by the name of Peach, from the Koopa King, Bowser himself. 
 But this time around there's a twist hat can be solved just from the name, Super Mario GALAXY! 
 This time our favorite plumber is up in space! Oh yah! I almost forgot to mention the new princes 
 involved in the story her name is Rosealina, but don't worry she's not out to steal Mario's heart 
 Peach is the only one for him their relationship is solid. Rosealina the princes of the Space Observatory 
 ,which is basicly the Castle of Super Mario Galaxy. So realy the story hasn't really changed from 
 other Mario titles such as Super Mario 64, but hay if it aint broken don't fix it. So for the story 
 I give it a solid 9.5 of 10
  
  Graphics~
  Whoever said that the Wii put gameplay over graphics apparently has not seen Super Mario Galaxy! 
 This and other games like Metriod Prime 3 are great exapmles of the fact that the Wii can have 
 great Gameplay and even better graphics! My expectations for Wii graphics just skyrocketed into 
 the next galaxy! (no pun intended) So overall I give this games graphics a 9.8 of 10
  
  Gameplay~
  The gameplay is pretty solid in this game, just like the story it goes with classic 
 Mario tradition, but in this one there is the addition of different typs of mushrooms and you can 
 also use starbits as a weapon to stun certain enemies. there is also your standard spin move that 
 stuns enemies for a while and you can finish them off with a good kick! there is also the usual 
 crush your foes with your own weight. So to sum up tis final paragraph
  I give the gameplay a good 10 of 10! 
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is one of those games that can 
 really raise your expectations for other games like it or for just games in general. 
  So my over all score for this game is 10 of 10. That's about it for this review see ya next time!
 
  
  ~SteveXLR~
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: furius51
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy has blasted off store shelves and into many a person's Wii. Super Mario Galaxy 
 is the newest iteration of our favorite old fat plumber, Mario. In this new rendition the plumber 
 is sent into outer space, and onto many out of this world terrestrial planets. Everything about 
 this game is super fine, and coated with a glossy polish.
  First thing, and the most unimportant, is the graphics. These are the finest graphics that a Nintendo 
 console has ever seen. Sure they may not compare to Gears of War or an average 360 game, but if 
 you were to compare, this blows Gears of war out the water. Everything in the environment has a 
 great cartoon feel, and in some odd way feels alive. Whether it by blades of grass moving in the 
 wind on a planet, or a goomba running towards you everything feels alive.
  The next amazing aspect of the game is the physics. The game has two different physics sets. One 
 for terrestrial planets, or one for the levels set up as asteroids or mini planets in space. While 
 in outer space it is possible to lake a long jump from one side all the way around the planet to 
 the other side. In some levels Mario is faced with multiple platforms while in space, each of these 
 platforms will have its own gravitational force. If you jump at the right spot between multiple 
 platforms, it is possible to be set in a short orbit around a platform.
  Number 3 is the style of the game play. For the most part it is the same as Super Mario 64. You 
 have your central hub, and, for the most part, different rooms. Each room can contain around 18-20 
 stars (not sure of the exact number) The great part of this set up, is that each start can take 
 range from a 5 minute cake walk, or a 20 minute amalgamation of multiple attempts. Though the game 
 starts off deceptively easy, the later levels can be extremely difficult, and will require a fair 
 amount of thinking as well as skill to beat.
  Number 4 that makes this game so amazing are the controls. It controls, for the most part much 
 like it would on any other console, analog stick to move, A to jump, and so on. These controls 
 are tight, and precise. It is very unlikely you will ever have a tough time controlling Mario in 
 your regular levels. Now, some motion controls have been added. You are able to point at the screen 
 with the Wii-mote and pick up star bits just by pointing at them. This makes it much easier to 
 rake up your star bits and earn crucial one up's. You can also move the pointer back and forth 
 to initiate a spin attack. This is your main attack and often time paralyzes your opponent so that 
 you can jump on them.
  A whole is only equal to the sum of its parts. Well when each part is extremely strong as in Super 
 Mario Galaxy, it's no wonder why its such a great game. Their only few super minor downsides of 
 the game. The worst of which being the poor camera control, but that does not really affect the 
 game too much as the camera is typically in a great position anyway. Outside of that one minor 
 gripe, the game is outstanding, and flawless. That tiny flaw is no reason to demerit .5 from it. 
 For this reason I give Super Mario Galaxy a 10 out of 10. Now I also raise the question, why are 
 you reading this review when you should play MG 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noobberry
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Pure awesomeness, finally the game i awaited for a LONG time came and boy, it was impressive.
 
  
  Graphics: Amazing and colorful, might be better off with this (kiddy) graphics than the one in 
 PS3 (xbox 360 owns that)
  
  Sound: Didn't really like the voice acting much (pretty annoying) , everything is okay beside the 
 voice acting like star.
  
  Gameplay: atmosphere is one of the best things of the game, level design is pushed to the limited 
 while some games doesn't have this (i think i love kamimari) but its awesome. One thing that annoys 
 me about it it just the costume were bit buggy, there are timing for the costumes (like the fire 
 and ice) . My favorite is the bee and boo costume because.... well theres no time limit but except 
 if you touch water (if your a bee) or run into some lighting (if your a ghost)
  
  Value: All you need is only 60 stars to complete story mode, but there are 121 stars in total so 
 if you want to complete the whole game, you will need 121 stars.
  
  Overall: Galaxy is one impressive game and a must have game for your wii.
  
  Note: I brought 
 the game three days ago and played for like 3 hours each day and only total is have is 50, so it 
 will take a pretty long time. o also, Sam get this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bauerpower324
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that super mario galaxy is one of the greatest games ever made. There 
 are only a few games i would put it up against for number one: Legend of Zelda Orciana of Time, 
 World of Warcraft, Halo (any of them) and probably the original Super Mario 64. The graphics in 
 the game are stunning. For a wii, i think these are the best graphics we're going to see until 
 SSBB comes out, and even then, im not sure if SSBB has a chance against SMG. The gameplay, AMAZING. 
 I got a little dizzy from running up sidedown under planets and it's just a little hard to get 
 used to at first, and your primary attack is spinning which can be a pain because every time u 
 spin, u have to wait a second for ur "star power" to come back, but besides that, it is spot on. 
 Value, hell i'd by this game for $100, and i wouldn't care less, it's just that good. Sound, this 
 is the only compliant i have, and the only reason i didn't give it a 10/10. U can tell, the sound 
 is going to have a little bit of an issue the second u click on the wii disc channel and u hear 
 a comical mario voice yell almost painstakingly loudly SUPER MARIO GALAXY!!!!! The classic mario 
 sound affects are all there, but it sounds a little starange from the wii remote. Overall Super 
 Mario Galaxy is one of the greatest games of all time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: towelie892
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 6, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is the best game I have played in a long, long time. It is fun, creative, original, 
 entertaining, innovative, interesting, beautiful, and so much more. If you take nothing else away 
 from this review, remember this: buy this game.
  
  The story is the same as in every other Mario game: Peach has been captured and you must rescue 
 her. To do this, you must collect power stars, of which there are 120. The missions are incredibly 
 varied and entertaining, and they are overall a blast to play. The new gravity mechanic works beautifully, 
 and exploring its possibilities is something you could do for hours. Jumping off of one mini planet 
 and being sucked in by a bigger planet's gravity just feels so natural, and yet completely new 
 and fresh at the same time. It's simply something that must be experienced to be appreciated.
 
  
  The graphics are incredible and the Wii's best; they wouldn't look out of place on an Xbox 360. 
 Everything looks detailed, crisp, clean, and like it could pop off the screen. Play it on a big 
 plasma or LCD TV and you'll be in awe at what the Wii can do. The sound is incredible as well. 
 It's all fully orchestrated, with new catchy tunes as well as many redone classics from the Mario 
 series. It's the best game soundtrack since Shadow of the Colossus. The audio and visual presentation 
 sets new and incredibly high standards for the Wii, as well as the other systems.
  
  I could go on and on about how the controls are perfect, how the game is so ridiculously entertaining, 
 how the graphics and sound are beautiful, and how this is easily one of the best games I've ever 
 played, but I don't want to waste any more of your time. If you don't already have this game, go 
 buy it right now. You can thank me later.
  
  Gameplay - 10
  Graphics - 10
  Sound - 10
  Value - 9.5
  Overall (not an average) - 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGreatDavoo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Let me just get this out of the way; Super Mario Galaxy is all it's cracked up to be. With great 
 controls, amazing visuals, and the best levels in history, I agree with almost everything the GS 
 review states.
  
  I sometimes found myself long-jumping off of a small platform to watch Mario fling around it for 
 a few seconds just for fun. There are no areas where gameplay it feels like a chore. (With a few 
 rare exceptions however)
  
  I was however not very impressed by the game's Score however. It never really gets above average. 
 Nothing will stick in your head that isn't already a remix from some other game. At least it doesn't 
 feel forced.
  
  And I do agree with the GS review that the storyline isn't very nice either. Since when did Nintendo 
 think that we really cared about a story for a Mario game in the first place? That's one thing 
 that made Mario 64 so wonderful. Because there basically WAS no story.
  
  Mario comes to the castle for cake.
  Peach isn't therethe castle is in terror.
  Mario gets 
 all the stars and kills Bowser. (again)
  Peach floats out of a stain glass window.
  Mario gets a kiss on the nose and Peach bakes that fore mentioned cake.
  The end.
  
  See? 
 That's not really a storyline. It's just enough to help the game make since.
  But this is not the case with Galaxy.
  
  But regardless of these few little drags, there is 
 almost no one that I couldn't recommend this game for. If you own a Wii, pleasebuy this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bondq007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is a great game is you like other super Mario's. But, if you like a challenge 
 then this game may not be for you. One of the best parts about this game is the controls. They 
 are easy to learn and within about 30 seconds you are ready to play the whole game. The graphics 
 are some of the best i have seen on the Wii and the music is sweet because it is some of the older 
 music from other Nintendo Classics. Unfortunately that is about it. The game is so easy that it 
 is almost a disappointment. If you really sat down and played it for about 4 to 6 hours you could 
 beat it. But, because the levels are so well done you may want to go at it again. Other than that 
 this game is just like every other super Mario but only in space. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyranitar522
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Oh my gosh!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! This is the best mario game EVER!!!! It has perfect graphics and shading 
 on Mario, 6 playable files, and tons of fun. I love traveling through different galaxies, fighting 
 a variety of enemies and bosses, big and small. Collecting the stars is fun, and doing the Daredevil 
 levels are amazing. This game successfully branches out as the great mario hit for this year and 
 years to come. Nintendo did a great job in this game. Not just the graphics, but also the fun and 
 competitive stages, and the variety of missions to do. Including great music, that gets you going 
 and ready to play. This game reaches out to the stars and gets a perfect score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about Super Mario Galaxy? It's probobly the most amazing game i've played sense 
 The Legend of Zelda Ocarina of time. It lived up tot he sequal of Super Mario 64. The Graphics 
 are amazing. The Gameplay is outstandingly original.
  
  As soon as you realise that the whole game has these amazing 3D planets you will fall in love with 
 it. It brought back alot of the old items Mario used to use back in the day in Super Mario Bros..
 
  
  The story is the classical Mario story. Bowser steals Peach from Mario and Mario needs to collect 
 stars to save her and defeat Bowser. The game borught back alot of the old music but also made 
 new music which is really nice.
  
  But just how the whole game is period. It's... amazing. People probobly have said amazing about 
 other games but... this game really is amazing. It is just so... good! How can I explain it? wow... 
 It is a great game. It will make you stop to say, "wow." How far has technology gone? Its a new 
 kind of Genre if you ask me.
  
  This game is completely worth every penny. It is the game of the year, it is the Wii game to get. 
 The missions are fun. The minigames are fun. The whole friggin game is fun! I can't belive it sometimes 
 that it's all real.
  
  Nobody has ever done it before. It feels like more then 3D. it feels 4D if that existed. It brings 
 back the whole Mario experience again and is rightfully the new sequal to Super Mario 64 and even 
 better.
  
  There is a little bit of a change of controls but it feels alot nicer and easier if you ask me. 
 The Wii finally is showing that it is the king and that Nintendo reigns king of all video games.
 
  
  You HAVE to try this game for yourself. You HAVE to play it. Because if you don't... you are missing 
 out on a lot. The most revolutionary game in my oppnion I have ever played. It's Super Mario people! 
 It's SUPER MARIO GALAXY! YOU WILL BE SHOCKED ON HOW GREAT IT IS!
  
  IS 10 TOO MUCH YOU ASK? NO WAY! IT DESERVES 11! SUPER MARIO GALAXY, THE NEW GENRE! you will not 
 take this game out of you wii for a long long time my friends.
  
  thanks for reading my review. Game on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpsaply
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  At this point I have played about 4 hours of the game. The only thing that has made me stop, is 
 the fact I have to work in 5 hours and should spend some time sleeping. There really is no complaints 
 about the game so far other then minor stuff, like controls in certain circumstances and that it 
 really wasnt made into a two player game. The two player game consists of player one having full 
 control of movement and aiming with wand on Mario, while player two can also use there wand as 
 a second grabbing or shooting device but not controling an individual character on its own. 
  The game is beautiful and unique. The game-play from galaxy to galaxy is different each time. Always 
 something different to look at and interact with. The game was well worth the purchase. A must 
 have for those who love Mario and want something unique. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyking_1993
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  The graphics on the game are phenomenal. The game play is superb. The series is pretty much the 
 same only because Bowser takes Peach and it only takes about 3 hits to kill a boss. Besides that 
 the game is awesome. The suits like Bee Mario, Boo Mario, and Spring Mario are very cool. The awesome 
 part is that you can be Luigi in this game. The cool powers he gets are cool too. When you get 
 to the gate level you can unlock the ability to fly. Yes I said FLY. You just get the red star 
 and you spin in the air and you start flying for a limited time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vimz
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  this game is one of the greatest of this generations mario games the graphics are great and the 
 story kind of confusing but good old traditional gameplay i will put the review into 2 sections 
 starting with the good
  
  good:
  the graphics are almost comparable to twilight princess the storyline may be confusing at the end 
 but its good either way also the gameplay hasnt changed from 64 and sunshine and the transformation 
 art is nicely done.
  Bowser also retains his head role as the main villain so yay for that. And princess peach gets kidnapped 
 again as she always is.
  
  bad:
  the controls of underwater are hard to control as if you want to go up you have to press down the 
 controls of some of the transformations are also quite slippery to contrrol the idea of coins have 
 been replaced by star bits but coins still do appear with the same purpose as star bits but coins 
 are scarce in the game some levels are hard at the start.
  
  
  but in all the game had many good reviews with me writing the one you are reading hope you enjoy 
 this game i know i did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dunestar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  Not since Super Mario 64 has there been a really great Mario game. Yes there was Super Mario Sunshine 
 but many have argued it wasn't really a true Mario game, since you mainly relied on F. L. U. D. D. 
 (except in the Cosmic Mario challenges) helping you out and ridding graffiti from a resort island.
 
  
  Super Mario Galaxy takes the standard  theme and spins it on 
 its ear. Literally. But this time the premise here is, Mario needs Power Stars for pursuing Bowser 
 (yet, again) across the Universe, to save Princess Peach.
  
  The story goes something like this: every century a mysterious comet comes into range of the Mushroom 
 Kingdom. However, rather than the gloom-and-doom in which these celestial bodies are attributed 
 with, the Mushroom Kingdom celebrates its arrival. Apparently we learn this is where Power Stars 
 originate (including the classic Starman) and when it arrives it brings forth Star Bits and the 
 creation of Power Stars.
  
  Naturally Peach invites Mario (you notice Luigi never gets 'officially' invited, he just crashes 
 the party) , Bowser shows up with reconstructed airships and crashes the event. Similar to what 
 he did in Paper Mario: Thousand Year Door, he implements a UFO in seizing Castle Peach with the 
 Princess in tow.
  
  Just as Mario prepares going after the vile Koopa, Kamilla (Kammy's cousin, I presume) materializes, 
 magically hurling the plumber into deep space. And thus the story really begins.
  
  The first thing you notice in SMG is the varying gravity. Each 'galaxy' Mario visits is composed 
 of a 'planet' which the plumber can traverse. Thanks to the Wii Remote, Mario acquires a new move: 
 the Spin Attack. Besides jumping on foes, he can now spin them dizzy. Afterwards you can kick them 
 for Star Bits.
  
  Just like its predecessor, Mario has several chances to sustain damage (this time back to the classic 
 three) , and coins can replenish your health. Consequently, the real gimmick here are the mysterious 
 Star Bits Mario can collect. Apparently Star Bits serve three purposes: Luma snacks, weapons, and 
 1-up generators when you collect a multiple of 50 the first time (in other words, no shooting off 
 Star Bits, then refilling back to 50.) .
  
  But what makes this set up unique is, you can actually have a second player come in to collect 
 Star Bits (by moving the cursor over them) , temporarily hold enemies, and deflect attackers and 
 oncoming attacks. Sort of makes it better than just sitting there watching your friend play as 
 the plumber.
  
  Anyway, on with the game. This time around, Mario discovers he's on a mysterious observatory, and 
 discovers they're actually the comet. Every 100 years they fly past the Mushroom Planet (Earth, 
 perhaps?) and shower it with Power Stars and Star Bits. Except thanks to Bowser's meddling, the 
 craft has been drained of its Power Stars and Grand Stars, rendering it lifeless in space.
  
  Mario discovers by collecting Power Stars and Grand Stars, he can not only unlock galaxies 
 to travel to, but can energize the Comet Observatory back online and rescue Peach.
  
  Just as with Mario 64 collecting a number of Stars permits Mario to unlock new galaxies found in 
 one of the observatories about the place. (But why would one have an observatory in a kitchen and 
 bedroom, ah, the wonders of the Mario-verse.) And as a side-trip, you can collect Star Bits and 
 feed them to hungry Lumas for unlocking 'Bonus Galaxies' outside the observatory domes. Also there 
 are '?' Block galaxies which eventually unlock for some fun little side mini-quests in getting 
 stars as well.
  
  With all of these innovations you might be afraid Mario's controls have changed. Thankfully Nintendo 
 was smart in retaining the plumber's movements. Mario has kept the moves you know: the backflip, 
 the side jump, the wall jump, the broad jump, and the ground pound. You can now even use your spin 
 attack to gain higher ground and longer distance.
  
  Besides the gravity-altering, mind-bending realms Mario travels to, he also now has required some 
 new suits as well as revamped versions of old classic Power-ups.
  
  The new suits are Bee Mario and Ghost Mario, which enable the plumber stunts he couldn't normally 
 do before. The only problem is, as with most suits in Mario games, they're not resilient. Either 
 a touch from an enemy, or encounter with the suit's weakness (Water and Light respectively) , Mario 
 loses his suit. Yet, what makes this tolerable is, you can literally find the magic mushroom required 
 close by for the most part.
  
  No more having to trace your steps halfway back for a Power-Up. 
  
  The revamped suits are, 
 of course, Fire Mario and Frost Mario. As you guessed they come from the Fire and Frost Flowers 
 Mario finds to help him solve puzzles, set things ablaze, walk on Lava and Water and perform other 
 neat tricks. The only problem here is, the suits act like the Rainbow Star (SMG's version of Starman) , 
 for some reason they have time limits via the music. Which the music's tempo heightens, you'd better 
 be in a safe place because it means your outfit will disperse without warning.
  
  Rather annoying when you're attempting getting your bearings and figuring out why exactly you need 
 a Fire or Frost Flower in a certain location. Fortunately, unlike the other suits, you don't lose 
 it if an enemy hits you, but it does slow you down a bit.
  
  Most of the suits are adaptable and help Mario out of jams, but there's one in particular which 
 most find extremely annoying and questionable: Spring Mario.
  
  Rather than being a suit per se, Mario's wrapped by a coil and bounces aimlessly about the place 
 until you press A to make him do a Spring Bounce. The problem here is, though I know Miyamoto wanted 
 a new, unique Mario for the game, the controls are not exactly precise with it, meaning Mario doesn't 
 sit still. Which can be extremely frustrating when you want the plumber stop momentarily while 
 you figure out how to get to a narrow spot or attempting to reach a certain area to unlock coins 
 and Star Bits. 
  
  Ironically, though, it's these challenges which make SMG truly function for the Wii. One, it's 
 not too frustrating where you want to throw your Wii controls out the door, but not too easy where 
 you end up finishing the game in less than five hours. As with most Mario games, SMG doesn't end 
 with Mario defeating Bowser as new challenges are unlocked for you to collect the classic 120 quota 
 of stars.
  
  Along the way, Luigi does show up (via reference to his Mansion game) and will help Mario find 
 some Power Stars (too bad he only does it for about three times, I would've like him to have done 
 more) . Then you have Mailtoad who gives you letters from Peach containing 5 1-ups (for whenever 
 your reserves get low) as well as letters from Luigi (for something REALLY odd, after getting a 
 Luigi Letter and saving your game, go back into your Wii Menu for a surprise.) .
  
  Overall, SMG is definitely a fun game with high replayability factor. Though I got to beat the 
 game demoed at my local game store, I bought it and started playing again, discovering items I 
 had missed or overlooked. 
  
  Super Mario Galaxy definitely was worth the wait and is ultimately what Nintendo promised for the 
 Wii, a Mario game we can all sit down and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynomitemasta
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  Well, I think I might officially be over Nintendo, it took 20 years, and many systems but it's 
 finally happened. Don't get me wrong, they still have a big piece of my heart and I will ALWAYS 
 have the latest console, but I'm just not as stoked about what they are doing. I'm found myself 
 as with many recent Nintendo games losing interest rather quickly. I am about 3 hours into Mario 
 and I have had it, I just don't want to play any more. The level design is annoying and not fun. 
 The last Mario game I really flipped for was Mario-64, because it was so new and fresh. I didn't 
 even have any other type of console except Nintendo up until 2005, then I caved. A true Nintendo 
 fan. Maybe I am just too old to get it, maybe I got a taste of the real world and going back is 
 impossible. All I know is that, I can't seem to get through this game, . the kids LOVE it. . . 
 . I'm an old man, . . when'd that happen? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blacklotus218
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 7:13 am PT
Review:  I'm so glad they took there time with this game, it really shows and pays off. It such a new unique 
 mario game yet it still keeps the classic fun elements. If you own a Wii, you better buy this game. 
 This should hold you over until BRAWL is out which again there taking there time with so I should 
 blow us away! But this is definitely a must have for all wii owners. The graphics a very good and 
 the music just sets the mood perfectly. They really couldn't have done much to improve this game, 
 maybe a fun little multi-player mode would have a added a little something to it, but thats what 
 BRAWL is for, I cant wait! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timmerous
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 5:44 am PT
Review:  If you'd asked me a month ago what games I was looking forward to I might have mentioned Assassin's 
 Creed or Kane and Lynch, but I never would have mentioned Mario, especially after the weak gamecube 
 outing, Sunshine.
  
  So when I went to pick up Assassin's Creed on the PS3 I also noticed Mario was out the same day 
 and, having seen the reviews, I reluctantly decided to buy it. It sat to one side unopened while 
 I started on Creed which I played for an hour or so. 
  
  I then swapped over to the Wii to try Mario and see if it was going to be another let down. After 
 the initial slight nausea to my head brought on by the gravitational effects in the game (which 
 was in a good way I'm glad to say) I started making my way through the opening galaxy. The level 
 design is amazing to say the least, with each section of mini planets giving plenty of fun surprises 
 which genuinely stun you with their conception.
  
  The game is kept fresh throughout as each galaxy throws something new into the mix without recycling 
 all the things you did in the previous galaxy. So at one point you may be flying around as Bee 
 Mario for a galaxy, but this then won't be a part of any of the later galaxies. This also helps 
 a lot in allowing you to go back to earlier galaxies to complete secret missions as it all seems 
 fresh when the mechanics are not over used.
  
  The only real down note for the game is that it is easy. However at the same time it is probably 
 the most fun you will have on a console this year and if it was harder some of the frustration 
 you experience because of this may well have taken away from the experience. You are also not going 
 to finish this as quickly as some other big titles as the game itself is vast and you will want 
 to get all those hidden and bonus stars.
  
  The Wii might not have the best graphics of this generation of consoles, but in my opinion it has 
 the most enjoyable game so far and for that reason alone you shouldn't hesitate in buying it.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: powley
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2008 10:05 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. When I first started playing it I couldn't help but think that I wanted to 
 take the disc out and give it a hug. (I know I know...) Seriously though this game is just very 
 fun to play and makes you feel good playing it. It is very entertaining- and that is what it is 
 all about when you get right down to it.
  
  BTW the spring suit and esp. the bee suit were not overly hard to use AT ALL. (regardless of the 
 Gamespot reviewer's thoughts)
  
  The spring suit is pretty bouncy and requires some caution while using but it IS a SPRING SUIT 
 after all. You basically become a giant spring and bounce repeatedly to get around..... up to 3 
 or 4 times Mario's normal jump height when you want to. So I say- what do you expect? The point 
 is that, to me, it is very very manageable and is not unfair but presents a challenge (and I thought 
 an interesting one... esp. when they could have just given you the same old "flying suit" you have 
 done 1000 times) ..... and one you should expect if you are using mario as a bouncy spring.
  
  And to me, the bee suit was even FURTHER away from being remotely close to an annoyance. It 
 really isn't that hard (or annoying) to have to avoid the water. (I didn't think it was overly 
 hard or annoying at all actually) And Mario looks cute in the little costume. :)
  
  This might be my favourite game ever. Like I said earlier, it's all about what you feel while playing...... i. e. 
 the experience. When I play this game it makes me feel happy. I feel happy playing it and it has 
 a very epic feel to it.
  
  Buy it now if you have a Wii. It simply is fun.
  
  :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baltor3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  
  Like many other games (or rather all of the other games) in the series, the game starts off with 
 Princess Peach getting kidnapped.... again. This time though, prepare to leave your safety zone 
 of the mushroom kingdom for, no, not that craptacular tropical paradise Isle Delfino, but the boundless 
 area of outer space. You'll quickly become familiar with a princess-like character, Rosalina (commonly 
 referred to as simply "mama") . Your hub world is set on her starship, the observatory. Like in 
 Super Mario 64's castle and Super Mario Sunshine's Isle Delfino, the observatory serves as the 
 connection to all of the many galaxies set in the game.
  
  What are galaxies, you ask? Essentially, they are the equivalent of the worlds in past games. Each 
 galaxy has its own theme, some fire themed, some ice themed, some with frightening themes, some 
 with dark themes, and even some with toy themes and pastry themes. Without a doubt, the thing that 
 stands out the most in this game is the varied galaxies you'll discover. Not one is at all repetitive, 
 and these worlds are undoubtedly the single most creative and imaginative you'll ever find in a 
 video game. The clever design of each is astounding, and you'll constantly be scratching your head 
 thinking "Wow, that was absolutely brilliant!" 
  
  Along with the fresh new design of the worlds, with innovative spherical designs to be found throughout 
 most of the game, comes the classic Mario gameplay we've come to know and love in Super Mario 64. 
 Just like the previous two Mario games, you'll be collecting 120 power stars (or shines, in Sunshine's 
 case) to save the universe. While only sixty are required to complete the game, collecting all 
 120 stars will present you with a reward you're bound to find worthwhile. The refreshing platforming 
 in Galaxy is perhaps what makes this game truly stand out from the rest. The simple fact that they 
 managed to perfect the Mario gameplay and create a fresh, innovative experience at the same time 
 is what makes Super Mario Galaxy excel. Tricky puzzles and intense nostalgic platforming combined 
 make this the best 3D Mario game yet.
  
  As for Wii Remote usage, you'll quickly find that motion control is not forced upon you by any 
 means. But, at the same time, the way that the game does use motion control is fitting and works 
 very well. To do your nifty spin attack, you'll slightly shake the remote... which worked 100% 
 of the time in my playthrough. In addition to this, you'll notice a tiny star cursor on your screen 
 that you can move around using the IR control in the Wii Remote. The cursor actually adds a lot 
 to the experience, you can collect star bits (the currency in Super Mario Galaxy, which is found 
 more frequently than coins interestingly enough) which can either be used to shoot your enemies, 
 pay to lumas to unlock new galaxies, or can give you 1UPs with every fifty you collect. It actually 
 adds an interesting shooting element to the game... but at the same time you could most likely 
 go the entire game without ever shooting any of the star bits. Of course, chances are it will be 
 beneficial to do so.
  
  In reality, the only real complaints to have with Super Mario Galaxy would be its occassionally 
 frustrating camera. Because it uses an automatic camera rather than a manual one, the camera will 
 sometimes switch to a position rather confusing for the particular situation. Specifically, the 
 camera underwater will most likely confuse you, since the amount of manual control you have over 
 the camera is so minimal. For the most part, however, the camera is right on top of everything 
 it should be focused on. For an automatic camera, it more than suits the purpose, but excels beyond 
 what your expectations would usually be for an automatic camera in the platforming genre. Along 
 with this, the game may be a bit easy for more experienced players.... that isn't to say that there 
 won't be some very tricky and challenging moments throughout the game though. If you want to collect 
 all 120 stars, prepare for some serious work. Thankfully, while some levels may be relatively easy 
 to play through, they are never dull, which stays true to Shigeru Miyamoto's philosophy of gameplay.
 
  
  Visually, Mario is not only looking better on Wii than he ever has before, but his new game is 
 easily the best looking game on Wii.... or better yet, the best looking platformer this generation. 
 The art style used fits the Mario theme extremely well, but at the same time creates a certain 
 galactic flair you are bound to pick up on. The colorful visuals and technically advanced graphics 
 for the Wii are simply amazing. At times, you'll begin to question if your eyes are perhaps even 
 playing tricks on you! Indeed, this could easily fit in with some of the many games on the other 
 two platforms. The colorful pop and cheerful sugar coated graphics definitely set the standard 
 extremely high for future Wii titles.
  
  Concerning the audio, Super Mario Galaxy stands out as having one of the most beautiful soundtracks 
 of any game. The development team has truly evolved the sound of Mario's tunes by giving it orchestrated 
 music, rather than the usual MIDI music. Is it a success? I encourage you to listen to the music 
 for yourself to understand just how truly successful the music is. You'll find yourself revisiting 
 galaxies just to listen to the music of that particular galaxy again. There are definitely a ton 
 of great remixes of old Mario music (which are extremely well done) , and many new pieces as well 
 that are equally as good, and sometimes better. This great blend of music combined with some small 
 but good voice overs (Charles Martinet of course never disappoints with Mario's small voice overs) 
 and great sound effects make this game's audio one of the best of all time.
  
  While once you beat the game and collect all 120 of the game's power stars, you'll probably find 
 that there isn't a ton of replay value, the simple fact that you'll probably spend roughly fifteen 
 hours beating the game and a whopping thirty hours doing every single thing in the game is more 
 than enough to satisfy you for quite awhile. Not only this, but you're bound to enjoy just replaying 
 some of your favorite scenarios in your favorite galaxies. Everything in the game is so polished 
 and perfected, that it would be hard not to want to replay some of these galaxies. Plus, there 
 is an included "Co-Star" mode as well, which adds an extra cursor to the screen for the second 
 player to point at Mario and make him jump, collect star bits, or help out in other helpful or 
 sometimes hindersome ways. It may not be a fully fleshed out co-op mode, but it's definitely a 
 nice touch to the overall experience if you have someone else that is willing to play. The intuitive 
 design of Co-Star mode can appeal to everyone, which is a good thing if you can't find a true "gamer" 
 to play with.
  
  Overall, this is the game that proves what Wii is about. Innovation. Quality. Intuitive design. 
 I could easily go on and on, but ultimately I need not describe to you what this game offers. Once 
 you play it for yourself, you'll quickly learn that this is an experience that can not be matched 
 on any other console, new or old. Super Mario Galaxy's sugar coated fun and fresh new take on the 
 platforming genre creates the first true Wii game that is not only a must-have for any and everyone, 
 but the game that will give you reason to buy a Wii. This is Mario like he's never been before, 
 and he's better than ever. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerdude9
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy has blasted off store shelves and into many a person's Wii. Super Mario Galaxy 
 is the newest iteration of our favorite old fat plumber, Mario. In this new rendition the plumber 
 is sent into outer space, and onto many out of this world terrestrial planets. Everything about 
 this game is super fine, and coated with a glossy polish.
  First thing, and the most unimportant, is the graphics. These are the finest graphics that a Nintendo 
 console has ever seen. Sure they may not compare to Gears of War or an average 360 game, but if 
 you were to compare, this blows Gears of war out the water. Everything in the environment has a 
 great cartoon feel, and in some odd way feels alive. Whether it by blades of grass moving in the 
 wind on a planet, or a goomba running towards you everything feels alive.
  The next amazing aspect of the game is the physics. The game has two different physics sets. One 
 for terrestrial planets, or one for the levels set up as asteroids or mini planets in space. While 
 in outer space it is possible to lake a long jump from one side all the way around the planet to 
 the other side. In some levels Mario is faced with multiple platforms while in space, each of these 
 platforms will have its own gravitational force. If you jump at the right spot between multiple 
 platforms, it is possible to be set in a short orbit around a platform.
  Number 3 is the style of the game play. For the most part it is the same as Super Mario 64. You 
 have your central hub, and, for the most part, different rooms. Each room can contain around 18-20 
 stars (not sure of the exact number) The great part of this set up, is that each start can take 
 range from a 5 minute cake walk, or a 20 minute amalgamation of multiple attempts. Though the game 
 starts off deceptively easy, the later levels can be extremely difficult, and will require a fair 
 amount of thinking as well as skill to beat.
  Number 4 that makes this game so amazing are the controls. It controls, for the most part much 
 like it would on any other console, analog stick to move, A to jump, and so on. These controls 
 are tight, and precise. It is very unlikely you will ever have a tough time controlling Mario in 
 your regular levels. Now, some motion controls have been added. You are able to point at the screen 
 with the Wii-mote and pick up star bits just by pointing at them. This makes it much easier to 
 rake up your star bits and earn crucial one up's. You can also move the pointer back and forth 
 to initiate a spin attack. This is your main attack and often time paralyzes your opponent so that 
 you can jump on them.
  A whole is only equal to the sum of its parts. Well when each part is extremely strong as in Super 
 Mario Galaxy, it's no wonder why its such a great game. Their only few super minor downsides of 
 the game. The worst of which being the poor camera control, but that does not really affect the 
 game too much as the camera is typically in a great position anyway. Outside of that one minor 
 gripe, the game is outstanding, and flawless. That tiny flaw is no reason to demerit .5 from it. 
 For this reason I give Super Mario Galaxy a 10 out of 10. Now I also raise the question, why are 
 you reading this review when you should be playing Super Mario Galaxy?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_Trigger
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Mario Galaxy, what should I say. . . it's a masterpiece. This is a must own for fans of Wii and 
 Mario alike. The game follows the same plot as every other Mario platforRmer, each that hold a 
 place in the ways of gaming. Mario is going to a special star festival at Peach's castle when bowser 
 crashes the party with an air ship assault, taking peach, as well as the entire castle, with him. 
 Mario must save the day by traveling to the final frontier, outer space, and reteive the stars 
 to pwn Bowser into the infinite beyond. The game's level design is wonderfully crafted. Each galaxy 
 has stars to collect, many galaxys have many stars to collect. The difference in Mario galaxy is 
 that each different star mission you go into the galaxy to, the planets will be slightly different, 
 making the game less repetitive. Levels are amazing attractions that will have your mind blown 
 wild, flying from a planet as it explodes in high detail, epic situations, and lots lots lots of 
 jumping make the game burst in exitement. Nothing to complain about here, the game is a marvel 
 that sets the wii ablze again. Its long enough, getting the stars is a challenge and overall its 
 a wild ride you will never forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stap23
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  After spending time playing Super Mario Galaxy, it brought a best interest on the Wii. The planets 
 are unbelievable. The game play does well. On top of that, the graphics on Super Mario Galaxy are 
 really great. This game is a gotta have and gotta play. Another thing that keeps the game going 
 are the puzzles especially the purple comets, if you know what I am talking about. One problem 
 in the game is of course are the camera angles. It is hard to see the things that you want to look 
 for. Also the invert over look can't be switch. Overall, this game is really good. it'll keep you 
 playing want to play with another "available" character. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidtyler12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  What is there to say about Super Mario Galaxy? 
  
  I have tried to the best of my ability to find something to criticize about this revolutionary 
 game, but it seems simply to be impossible. By far, this game has the BEST graphics of any Wii 
 game to date. The hundreds of beautiful galaxies left me memorized as I was scurrying around, collecting 
 Star Bits and avoiding those nasty Goombas. All of the baddies, as well as Mario and crew look 
 clean and crisp, and overall very artistic. Simply from the look of this game, many gamers will 
 be drawn in.
  
  The game play pertaining to Super Mario Galaxy can be seen as nothing but perfection- as were the 
 controls of Mario 64, which have basically been recreated, but this time with much more gusto. 
 On the few occasions where motion controls are used the same can be said, in that they are pretty 
 much flawless. 
  
  One thing to note is the sounds and music of Super Mario Galaxy, much of which is orchestrated, 
 and adds to the game in the most positive of ways. All of which are pleasing to the ear, and overall 
 very admirable, unlike the eeks and urks of Super Paper Mario.
  As always, the same motif which pertains to Mario saving Peach is in play, but what would any story 
 be if there wasn't a Princess that needed saving? But overall, the same story we've seen in almost 
 every Mario game doesn't drag anything back. 
  
  When all is said and done, Super Mario Galaxy can only be referred to as the best of Wii games, 
 and overall as being very entertaining. Everybody owning a Wii should definitely check this game 
 out, because of its awesomeness, as well as overall being a very great game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuck1234526
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Usually it takes me a while to get into enough to actually like some games, I played this game 
 for an hour (only actually moving Mario for about 15 minutes!) Miamoto-san has been more involved 
 in this games development than any previous 3-D Mario adventure which has resulted in a game that 
 could even challenge the legendary Mario 64. 
  
  While lots of people say that Wii is a revolutionary system (which it is) some will say that it 
 isn't very good because it doesn't have those same amazing graphics as say, PS3. This game finally 
 proves all of these people wrong. It's high-resolution, high quality graphics put other game developers 
 to shame. Think soaring through a beautiful, yet vast, galaxy, while you haven't even landed on 
 a large planet or tiny planetiod yet. When you do land on one, you are swept into a unepectedly 
 crazily good looking planet that no earlier nintendo system could generate onto that same screen 
 that earlier systems generated stuff onto. 
  
  When Miamoto-San released the original Super Mario Bros. on the NES, players were floored with 
 how well the formula worked. But, after many years of the same kind of platforming, they started 
 to have to add in little extra things to keep the formula fresh. Mario galaxy is almost like a 
 blast from the past without really needing much to keep the formula fresh. It is pretty much a 
 new definition of 3-D platforming. Jumping, running, and beaming yourself from planet to planet 
 feels as natural as its original. 
  
  If there was anything in this game I would say I didn't expect would ever come to the Mario series 
 would be a co-op mode. It's a great little drop in-drop out mode where no one can say "What the 
 heck! You just got us both killed!" and ruin those little friendships. Anyway, when one person 
 is playing and say, their little sister come downstairs, wanting to play, she can simply connect 
 a wiimote and play as a second star cursor on the screen, collecting and firing star bits, and 
 helping the other person trying to save princess peach for the billionth time in a row. 
  
  In the hour I have played this game, I think I saw one of the best platformers on the Wii. I can't 
 wait to play more of it. This platforming sesation is not to be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: br3ttski22
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  (1st things 1st im no fan boy this is a honest review)
  
  okay so yer what i mean in my headline is dat i havnt realy had a game for the wii thats med me 
 play for hours on my wii
  
  
  
  Galaxy changed that
  
  it realy is addictive to say i wasnt sure about it i saw the videos of the galaxys
  and runnig 
 round and fort hmmm will it be that good but in the end i fort id use my staff discount card and 
 pick the game up and im very inpresed
  
  the visuals are great some realy great lighting effects and texture models realy push the wiis 
 hardware
  
  (very nice to see insted of a ps2 game with motion controls)
  
  (DATS SO ANNOING!!)
  
  the motion cvontols are good they dont feel just tagd on or just put 
 in becaue its a wii
  
  
  the story is good but would of been nice to hear sum voice insted of reading the text ... LAME
 
  
  the oni speach in the game is the odd evil laugh or scream of MARIO!
  
  
  but dis is the only fault i can realy pick with the game its a great platformer for adults or children 
 there is somthing everyone will love in mario galaxy so check it out
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8bit7055
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  When mario finds himself in no gravity, it's so fun to control, and easier than I thought! Mario 
 can do things I've never done before, and the galaxies are so immense, even the tiny ones are amazing. 
 The only thing I hate is the fact that when mario is talking to anyone, you have to wait, wait, 
 wait, and guess what else? WAIT! IT TAKES SUCH A FREAKING LONG TIME! that's why I only give it 
 a 9.5, other than that, jumping off an edge and suddenly landing on the other side is something 
 I've never done before, but even though it has such a looooooooooong story line I'd recommend it! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scrp14
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Well first off all, Im not American or Britan so my english is not the best... Well for me this 
 game is just simple awsome!!! Excelent gameplay, history is the same wich we cant get enought 
 of it, grafics awsome (now we can see what the wii can do) This is trully one of best Mario games 
 ever made (or even the best, thas my opinion) . My advive for everybody who owns a wii and doesnt 
 have this game is to buy it now, its the best wii game (at the moment) . The difficulty is what a 
 gamer wants, not very hard and not very easy, its just right. Well I think that is enough and buy 
 this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flawie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Mario is back for REAL for the first time since Mario 64 and he revolutionizes the series, the 
 genre and the gamingindustry before hes done! This is the game that Wii owners bought their console 
 for last year and its the game that pretty much anyone whos ever heard of Mario has been wanting 
 to try out since they first heard of it. Its the game that a whole world has gazed at in amazement 
 for years and its finally here. It delivers on everything and only a few annoyances keeps this 
 from being the perfect videogame. These are words I honestly thought I would never use, I was pretty 
 sure the perfect game could not be made. Well, Im still right but I feel like Im wrong since 
 Mario Galaxy is about as close as you can get.
  
  Once every now and then a huge comet passes by the Mushroomkingdom with loads of starfalls and 
 a big festival as a result. Its the night of the Comet Festival at the Princess Castle and the 
 area is drenched in song, dance and falling stars of every one of the rainbows colors. Peach has 
 sent an invitation to Mario to come to the castle since she has something she want to give him. 
 Mario runs happy towards the castle, arms out like an airplane through the happy festival night 
 when huge airships appear on the starry nightsky. Bowser and his armada starts a bombing run over 
 the whole area, freezing toads in place, destoying buildings and lifts the very castle from the 
 ground in huge chains to take it away to outer space with Peach still in it. Mario manages to hold 
 on to the castle but loses grip when hes attacked and starts falling with the distant scream of 
 Peach echoing through the very vacum of space. An unknown amount of time later he wakes up on a 
 green field with beautiful flowers all around him. He soon realizes that this is not a field, its 
 a little sphere in the middle of space with its own gravitation. Before the whole intro is over 
 youll get help from a huge spaceship that passed by Earth but got drained of all its Power Stars 
 by Bowser whos now planning to make his own galaxy with Peach by his side. This spaceship / spacestation 
 is lead by the beautiful young girl Rosalina who has hundreds of small cute stars under her care. 
 Her ship will act as your hub to all the galaxies youll explore to take back enough stars to power 
 the ship back up and go after Bowser and Peach at the center of the universe to save Peach and 
 to save the universe itself from destruction. You enter the first part of the hub after recieving 
 your own little star wich you keep in your hat and that makes you able to fly through space. The 
 adventure is on!
  
  Mario Galaxy revolutionize the way we think about platforming. This game will bend and twist your 
 mind until you are completely dizzy. The leveldesign of this game will literally blow your mind. 
 Youll run around from side to side on small spheres, jump between spheres, go inside of them outside 
 of them and through them, Youll cross bridges on them, under them and around them. Youll walk 
 on ceilings, walls, roofs, inside of balls, cylinders floating and twisting platforms. And when 
 you think youve seen it all youll walk on a sphere, then inside of it, then flip the gravitation 
 inside of it and walk inside of a 2D maze inside of the sphere then flip again, ride elevators 
 upwards on the screen standing under the elevator then smash through the outer wall of the sphere, 
 fly through space and land on cylinder thats also 4 stages in 1. 
  
  Every stage in Mario Galaxy is a game on its own. Every aspect and leveldesign-tweak could easily 
 be a game on its own but here you get thrown into another just as awesome level just as you have 
 started to understand the last and your mind is blown all over again, and it all makes perfect 
 sense. Not once do you get confused about what youre supposed to do and where youre supposed 
 to be going, youre just riding along, screaming "wooow" at everything thrown at you. In the beginning 
 you keep feeling a huge rush in your stomach each time you leap of a ledge thinking youll die 
 just to flip around and land on the other side of the planet where youll continue to jump on goombas 
 upside down.
  From start to finish Mario Galaxy bends the very laws of gaming itself. Its like "The Matrix". 
 It feels like youre bending the gameworld to your will when youre playing it and its a sensation 
 I have never before felt in any game. This is hands down the best leveldesign ever in a game and 
 it wouldnt even have to be set in a Mariogame to work. It would work without the nostalgiafactor 
 that is Mario. Its platforming reinvented all over again!
  Youreally cant wait to check out the next unlocked galaxy since youll know it will feel like 
 playing a new game evertime you enter one. Simply amazing!
  
  But for this to work the controls has to be as tight as the leveldesign right? Well I can safely 
 tell you that they are. The controls works perfect 95% of the time with perfect Wiimote support 
 for launching launchstars, do your spinattack and collect Starbits that you use to unlock bonusgalaxies 
 thats generally a bit more challenging than the normal ones. Once you get used to the controls 
 they will feel like 2nd nature. Nothing to it. There are a few occasions however where the controls 
 just fail completely and makes for some extremely frustrating bits. For once the swimcontrols feels 
 very clunky. Swimming where you want to go is often easier said than done. Also some of Marios 
 suits have kinda frustrating controlschemes. The springsuit that turns you into a human spring 
 is the worst example sending you to your death countless times because you cant bounce it right.
 
  
  Talking about suits. There are the springsuit, the fireflower, the iceflower, the boosuit and the 
 beesuit. Theres also a healthmushroom that doubles your health until you have dropped down to your 
 normal health again. Most of them are fun to use and makes for very interesting puzzles. This game 
 also fixes some minor things from previous Mariogames like how you could stack up what felt like 
 an infinite number of 1-Ups. Here youll start back at 4 lives each time you start playing the 
 game so each gaming session is a 1-Up hunt. This ramps up the difficulty to a better level and 
 is an excellent addition to the series. As for the difficulty its probably (again) the best balanced 
 difficulty in a game ever. It stars you out easy and goes up as you go through the game with some 
 extra crazy galaxies to unlock. The beginning of the game is a breeze where youll fly through 
 the levels relaxed and laid back. This will not last forever however. Some of the later stages 
 are REALLY challenging, forcing you to the edge of your seat and making handsweat cover your wiimote 
 completely. But even when its that hard it never feels frustrating or unfair, its if possible even 
 more fun when then game is really really challenging. The feeling of standing there under the star 
 in the end of the insane level, just hearing nothing but the sparkling sound it makes is a feeling 
 of accomplishment not very common in games.
  
  Concerning graphics this game is pretty much a work of art. Its one of the visually most beautiful 
 games i have (again) EVER played. And its not because of the technical part. This games artdirection, 
 artwork and visual style beats most of whats out there and the way camerangles and events are used 
 to really immerse you in the experience are insane. Completing a part of a level, launching youself 
 from that part towards the camera and seeing the part of the level you just completed blow up in 
 the background while you rocket towards the next part of the level with starbits circling around 
 you and while pillars of fire, stardust and rocks fly past is completely mindblowing every time 
 it happens. The visual design of the game is stenghtened with whats the hands down best soundtrack 
 in the history of gaming. Using many new really epic tunes combined with alot of remade classics 
 mainly from Mario 64, SMB3 and SMB. The epic songs playing when your flying through the galaxies 
 and jumping through space makes me think of soundtracks in Jerry Bruckheimer productions. The oldschool 
 songs adds that factor of nostaliga that makes old fans melt like butter and they are made with 
 so much love you want to replay galaxies just to hear more of them. They are all so well composed 
 and produced they heighten the experience to the place where this game belongs, amongst the best 
 experiences youll ever have in a game.
  
  The camera isnt always where you want it to be, you do have some control over it in most cases 
 but in some very rare cases the camera just go nuts and blocks your view completely. This together 
 with the occasionally unprecise controls (I also often feel like Marios jumps are way to short) 
 stops this game from being the perfect videogame. Everything is locked in perfect place. Every 
 designchoice is made just right. They have thought of everything. "How do I know when I will fall 
 of a planet and when I wont?". You see it by noticing black holes around the planets where you 
 can fall off. "How do I know when I can do my spin attack again". The star you keep in you hat 
 falls out and then flies in there again. All the little details like this maeks it so that you 
 never ever have to stop and wonder about something. Everything comes natural. Details like how 
 the stars are designed, how the hub is organized and how the beautiful backstory of Rosalina and 
 her spaceship is told ( the best goodnight story there is, ill write it down and tell it for my 
 kids one day) comes together to form one truly great game that also happens to be a Mariogame. 
 And since it is a Mariogame it adds a layer of recognition and nostalgia in many of us that makes 
 it a real trip both back and forward in time to play. On a sidenote the ending in this game is 
 the most beautiful ending I have witnessed. Yea yea, I know youre thinking "Mario is gameplay 
 only and it cant be beautiful" but the ending is truly touching, romantic and beautiful like no 
 other ending. The direction of the final cutscene with stars, love, space, galaxies, relationships, 
 sadness, evil, beauty and closure is a true masterpiece!
  
  So when youre sitting there, flying through mindblowing level design, completing truly epic bosses 
 (Shadow of the Colossus eat your heart out) , sucking in the beautiful environments, listening to 
 the best soundtrack youll ever hear and fighting to save the universe and your special one you 
 realize that this is the reason to go out and find a Wii NOW if you havent bought one already. 
 I dont care if youre a Sony fanboy, a platformhater or both. This is art, this is beauty, a nostaligatrip, 
 a rich experience and a revolution that rocks the very foundations of gaming. 
  Its a milestone. Its like putting all the games ever made in a pile and then building a throne 
 on it and putting the Galaxybox there. You dont have to be a Nintendofanboy or even a gamer to 
 love this. Youll be blown away by it even if youre 45, newly divorced and havent seen a Wii before 
 in your life. 
  With this game Nintendo finally nails down their "gaming for everyone" policy. I would give this 
 game a 9.7 or a 9.8 if possible but I rather go with 9.5 than a 10.0 so that I can continue my 
 search for the completely perfect game.
  I wonder where mario will go next.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jmwade
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  it was a thursday morning and thorugh the post i had a parcel. i opened it up and "ouila" it was 
 "MARIO GALAXY" and wasnt i happy.
  as soon as i turned it on i could tell this was an amazing game, and it certainly is. 
  The game 
 takes a few minutes to get used to and then its the best game for wii. It starts of with a suprise 
 beginning "prinicess peach gets kidnapped" lol. 
  So as usual its up to you to save her. The difference is, its all in space. You define the laws 
 of gravity and play as your favorite person. 
  There are some new costumes too "bee mario" and you favorites "flower power" .
  the game is addictive 
 and fun.
  
  the bad: lack of story/
  
  MUST BUY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krystians
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  You can be sure that when Nintendo makes a Mario game, that game is going to leave a nice warm 
 feeling inside. One thing that Nintendo is good at creating is a game that makes you remember it 
 very vividly many years into the future. Kind of like how Super Mario World is freshly imprinted 
 in our heads. Mario Galaxy takes place in... The galaxy where Princess peach during the celebration 
 of the comet, has been captured by bowser. It's up to Mario with he help of an unforgettable cast 
 to get her back. Like many Mario games, the setting is the part that always sticks with us. Like 
 in Super Mario 64 where we witness 3D Mario for the first time, with Galaxy there is something 
 new and amazing also. The first time you get your hands on Mario running around the best created 
 planets, you know this games spells out instant classic. I must add that the control scheme could 
 not have been better. Graphically this game is a 11/10. There is stunning visual effects, that 
 not even an HD system could make better. In essence this games is purely gorgeous. The game play 
 is phenomenal, which is good considering that Mario games hold so much replay value to them. All 
 in all this is defiantly a must have game on the Wii, that any Mario lover, or first timer should 
 consider getting right away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmlopez79
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  I'm always have been a Mario fan, since the launch of NES it has revolutionize the video game world. 
 Mario always delivers hours of fun, it never disappoints nobody. I think Super Mario Galaxy is 
 a new version of the always classic plumber, then its a classic too. The gameplay is excellent, 
 the graphics are fine (for the Wii) , the story is very funny, like always. The transformations 
 of Mario in this game are very funny and addictive. In my opinion, this game and Zelda are the 
 best games available for the Wii. Nintendo did it right once again with Super Mario Galaxy, it 
 will be difficult for others games to compete with Mario. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TEH_EMPER0R
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 5:18 am PT
Review:  Nintendo's Mascot brings to the Wii what we have been waiting for since the launch of the system 
 12 months ago. This is the one Wii title every owner has been dying to get there hands on, and 
 you don't have to play more than 10 minutes to see why. 
  
  It's your standard Mario affair, Bowser appears and kidnaps Princess Peach leaving Mario to travel 
 from world to world collecting the stars in order to rescue her. But that's where the similarities 
 end.
  
  First things you will notice compared to other Mario titles are the sound and visual capacity of 
 the game, with a fully orchestrated Score of tunes some brand new, and other classics from through 
 the series will have players grinning like little children on Christmas day with the nostalgia 
 they bring, and the best visuals on the system bar non, greatly improving on Sunshine, and also 
 other Wii title such as MP3. the big N really have gone all out to prove there little white box 
 can more than hold it's own against the the PS3 and 360. 
  
  Controls will also feel new, yet strangely familiar to veteran Mario players moving him around 
 with the analogue stick and jumping with e A button, you shake the Wiimote to perform spin attacks, 
 while pressing the B trigger will allow you to fire starbits at enemies to stun them momentarily. 
 Using the Z trigger on the nunchuk will allow Mario to perform his patented ground punt, and also 
 to dive deep into water. There is also a 2 player Co-op mode which sees player 1 controlling Mario's 
 movements and actions, while the 2nd player takes control of the pointer and helps collect stray 
 starbits and stun the enemies. 
  
  The levels themselves are greatly varied and similar to Mario Sunshine in the way that all of those 
 levels reflected to be Islands, in Galaxy they are all well.. galaxies.
  
  However the Intricacy and Scale of the levels in terms of depth and replay ability hark back to 
 the days of Mario 64, once you complete all the standard stars in one particular world certain 
 comets will appear giving you a different and more difficult take on an already completed star. 
 Luigi will also appear from time to time claiming to have found a star but is now stuck, he will 
 send you a screen shot of the world he is trapped in, leaving you and your memory to find out where 
 exactly he is.
  
  The camera is controlled completely by the game and 98% of the time it works fine, however you 
 occasionally find your view blocked by a wall which can be frustrating and the multilayer feels 
 a little tacked on however that said the pros greatly outweigh the cons.
  
  The levels themselves play very differently from each other some being one big globe that you navigate 
 around, others which will be lots of tiny asteroids, and will have you grabbing starts and hopping 
 from one to the next without falling into black holes. Some are 5 minute affairs while other could 
 take you up to an hour to see everything it has to offer.
  
  As with other Mario titles the game can be completed by collecting only 60 of the 120 starts available, 
 however to witness the true ending of the game collecting all 120 will be a feat accomplished by 
 only the truest of hardcore and platforming human machines out there. 
  
  The best thing about the game personally though is the costumes that Mario has available to him. 
 Similar to Mario Bros 3, when you first tried on the raccoon or frog outfits., the New Bee and 
 Boo Mario as well as others will again give you that feeling inside and bring a smile to your face.
 
  
  All in all this is a top title and the best on the Wii, this isn't Mario pretending to be some 
 wannabe Ghost Buster, this is the Plumber at his best, and Miyamoto and team have created the perfect 
 title that other platformers can only dream of being as good as. The perfect game to end the perfect 
 year for Nintendo. 
  
  9.5 An instant Classic
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: madder128
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 3:20 am PT
Review:  Back somewhat 10 years ago Super Mario 64 was released, this was a game which took the word 3D 
 and gave it a complety new meaning. Mario 64 captured all the essence of the previous games, gave 
 it a new lick of paint and showed the world how 3D really was the way foward.
  Since its release the game pretty much became a benchmark of what an acceptable platformering game 
 should be. Not even the release of Super Mario Sunshine could topple 64. It seemed Mario 64 would 
 remain the ultimate Mario game for Eternity.
  The years flew by and no true sequel to Mario 64 saw the platforming market dry up. Poor attempts 
 by sega to revitalise Sonic crushed the genre into the ground even more. The closest thing you 
 could get to a decent platformer up until a few weeks ago would be a game like Ratchet and Clank, 
 but even then these were hybrid's rather than a true Platformer. Then last week Shigeru Miyamoto 
 and EAD did the impossible and somehow managed to knock the King of the Throne.
  "Long live the king, the king is dead"
  Super Mario Galaxy is a game of such standard it is the 
 first game in my 14 year expierence with games i cannot fault in anyway. Graphically it is the 
 best the Wii system has seen and probably will be for a longtime to come. Its Vibrant colours, slick 
 animation and stunning textures help create a platoforming expierence better than the fabled Super 
 Mario Brothers 3. The Gameplay see's Mario wondering various planets which sometimes can be walked 
 round all 360 degrees, This may seem mind bending but it just works astoundingly. To match its 
 innovate gameplay which raises the bar of whats possible in Wii games and Platformers, it comes 
 with a control system and camera system which also cannot be flawed.
  It seems that the game has been so fine tuned, if you make a mistake it is purely down to your 
 own fault. As usual the quality of the sound effects throughout Mario are to a very high standard 
 and sounds coming through the Wii mote are once again are a very nice touch. The game also includes 
 a complete new score with some remixes of the classic themes everyone will remember, Although the 
 new themes may seem a bit odd at first they are performed beuetifully and become really familiar 
 after only a few hours of play.
  This is the ultimate Super Mario game to date and is a must for all owners of the Wii system. I 
 also those without a Wii to go out and get yourself the machine and a copy of this game. This is 
 a Mario game which is so revolutionary it has single handly changed the face of platformers, and 
 the raised the bar of what is possible. Its easy to pick up to play and easily appeals to all gamers. 
 As a gamer you owe it to yourself and the world to play this, so what you reading for now, go get 
 it !
  
  Matthew Adamson
  AKA
  madder128 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyber-
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 12:00 am PT
Review:  This game has awsome visuals, it will literally leave you saying WOW. Its obvious that Wii is capable 
 of true next gen graphics when you look at a game like this.
  The controls may not be drastically different but they are still more convenient to use when you 
 running real fast.
  The sound is unrivaled with nostalgic Mario music mixed with beautiful orchestrated scores. More 
 Wii games need music like this.
  The artistic view is probabaly the best we will get for years to come.
  This game is very possibly 
 the best game of all time and gamerankings is a good indicator of that. Don't pass up a must have 
 for Wii and for all gamers.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metamania
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 5:27 am PT
Review:  There is a lesson that this brand new installement of the Mario series teaches us. Its a lesson 
 that most developers seem to have forgetton, as they try to tackle on projects that demonstrate 
 the power and strength of its graphical capabilities. Its a lesson that allowed gamers to understand 
 and realize why videogames were created in the first place. Its a lesson that Nintendo has been 
 remembering, time and again, with each and every project they invest their time and it has been 
 used since their inception. 
  
  Fun. 
  
  Vibrant, exciting, and yet insane, Super Mario Galaxy is everything you ever wanted it to be. Its 
 beautiful and groundbreaking. Its a Mario game that captures the best of its past and yet breathes 
 new life that thrusts the series into an exciting direction than ever before. Its a game that will 
 challenge the platforming fanatic and becomes an adventure that's free to roam around in. It is 
 the best thing to ever happen on the Nintendo Wii, thus far, and it is also the best Nintendo game 
 that has been created in a decade. Yet it brings us memories of those dull, mediocre games that 
 we had to sit through for the past ten years or more before we became a kid again that got the 
 best present he or she ever got on Christmas. 
  
  As development progressed, we would hear about this amazing creature through reports from journalists, 
 who forced us to drool with captivating previews and dazzling screenshots. But even when we do 
 see the game in action, some may be confused or even puzzled on what to expect from this new installment. 
 Its very simple - its Super Mario 64 once again. Yet if you tear away the basics, you merely discover 
 is that a few essentials, such as its unique control scheme and that creative level design, has 
 returned. Start forgetting the fact that the castle is now a spaceship that's flying somewhere 
 around the universe. Start forgetting the fact that Mario can execute a three-hit punch combo. 
 Start forgetting the fact that Mario doesn't even daydream of italian food and toilets to fix. 
 This is is a straightforward, spiritual successor to the N64 classic, Super Mario 64. The controls 
 are as tight and responsive as you recall, even if its played differently through usage of the 
 Wiimote and Nunchuk. The wondrous sense of exploration is as mindblowing as you remember it and 
 you may be dropping your jaws more times than you can remember, even if the worlds and its creatures 
 you unearth, both old and new, are in a new place. Your basic quest, as you also remember - you 
 will travel upon different landscapes as the stars become your prey and you must thwart Bowser, 
 rescue the princess, squash on Goombas, and even ice skate your way to victory. 
  
  Now you're probably thinking this - you have done this many times and so has Mario. So why in the 
 world should anyone care if the adventure has been done so many times before? Princess Peach, in 
 her newfound glory, has perhaps decided to give Mario what he has been waiting for nearly twenty-six 
 years. You see, Mario receives a small note from the princess. "Come to the castle," she says. 
 "There's something I want to give you." There is no beating around the bush this time, just a simple 
 reference that just about everybody can figure out. But if Peach knew, all this time, what Mario 
 want, then Super Mario Galaxy knows what you've been waiting for since Super Mario 64 came out 
 nearly ten-eleven years ago. As you arrive at the Mushroom Kingdom, you are greeted by a major 
 population of Toads that are gathering star bits, which are pieces that fall out of the sky. Its 
 for a festival that happens every thousand years that pass by. And just when you're about to meet 
 the Princess and find out what she wanted to give you, that's when the trouble starts. The princess, 
 as you obviously know from the beginning, ends up getting kidnapped by Bowser and his croons and 
 its up to you to find her. 
  
  That's where the incredible adventure in itself begins and this time, the rules have changed, if 
 not for the better. The universe is now at your command. There is no room for theories, for space, 
 or even color. You're off exploring planets that will simply shock and, as stated, force you to 
 drop your jaw more times than you could count. To describe you, in every single detail, of all 
 these planets would be a crime to steal away all the joy and surprise that awaits you in this game, 
 yet the names of these levels reveal the story in part. You'll be ray skiing on water, battling 
 out a giant mole in order to save a small creature, or to even fly high in the skies in search 
 of new lands. You'll jump, slide, and butt-stomp your way to victory. You'll be skating like like 
 a figure skater, fly like a bee, and throw fireballs at your enemies that cannot stand your wrath. 
 All of this comes with a sense of awe awe and amazement, thus becoming a language of its own, one 
 that speaks in major volumes and is filled with positive vibes. 
  
  You'll begin to question yourself with the following. Why cannot we walk on the ground on a constant 
 basis? Where is the sky that's always above us? The landscapes come and go like the wind, the game 
 quietly slipping into 2D and 3D with little warning and no reservations. Gravity is no longer an 
 issue, as it flips and switches beneath your feet, yet Mario somehow doesn't care and is brave 
 enough to go with the flow of things, always expecting the unexpected. Some may argue that would 
 guarantee to give you a sense of dizziness and fatigue, if at any point gamers would have any clear 
 idea on which way up or down was. Instead, the word "fun" hits you in the head as you as chase 
 down the trail that leads to those precious stars through oceans of empty sky. The levels form 
 and dissolve under your feet, rotating and revolving, yet through it all, the camera never seems 
 to break a sweat, clearly showing that it can keep up with our fast plumber. Somehow, through the 
 twisting and turning, you are never left confused and lost in your direction. You'll be forced 
 to battle out a giant mole, twist and turn your way through dangerous platforms and bad guys, and 
 even sink a ship or two, all without giving it a second thought.
  
  Its an explosion that will guarantee to rattle the sense of those who love a good challenge and 
 those who love to explore every nook and cranny. In fact, there is almost no way of knowing what 
 you are putting yourself through before hand. One star may be just a simple task to complete in 
 a straightforward fashion, while other stars will force you to stop and smell the roses, taking 
 the beautiful scenery in and loving every second of it. On top of that, every single task, even 
 with the repetitive, yet fun task of collecting coins in its many guises all match in its ingenuity 
 in the level design. In fact, its not clustered or confusing - it all makes sense, as a good platformer 
 should be doing. Of course, you are going to have to tackle on bosses, collect items, castles to 
 roam around in and wrecks to dive, but the 120-star collecting adventure feels like tiny labour 
 of love that's filled with delight and full of wonder and amazement. Even the boss battles are 
 a delight to participate in, as they are fun, creative, and a pleasure to be involved with. Fun, 
 joyful, spectacular, fair, and even hysterical, the boss battles will warm the hearts of both old 
 and new Mario fans. Even Bowser, Mario's eternal rival, also manages to stand on his own in his 
 glorious remake in Super Mario Galaxy. 
  
  No longer confined into worlds that you'll explore freely. Instead, it is done through domes. Each 
 of these domes contain small planets for you to check out. Some of these levels will make you chase 
 down three main stars, a hidden star and a "comet" star. Some will be levels that allow you one 
 shot at the golden prize via a race or through a complex puzzle. Finally, to finish the package 
 and make it complete, you will then deal with a Bowser level, which may give gamers fond memories 
 of having to trek through Bowser's worlds as you glide, leap, and edge your way past baddies and 
 obstacles and facing Bowser or his son, along with their minions, in a showdow for the star they 
 are holding in their possession. Comet stars is Nintendo's answer for not going out the easy way 
 in all the time spent creating those beautiful worlds. Your goal, with these stars, is to complete 
 difficult tasks that may look frustraing, but at the same time quite satisfactory. You'll be racing 
 an evil shadow of your self or even taking on bosses with only one hit point left. You may also 
 have to finish a certain task under a time limit or even have to deal with faster bad guys and 
 speeider platforms that will vanish quickly before you even know it. The great news is that these 
 are tasks that clearly point out the strengths and power of several levels created specfically 
 for Super Mario Galaxy. 
  
  No matter how you slice it, whether it be getting the itch out of a bee queen or destroying a ship 
 in its entirety, there are a load of stars that need to be collected in order to make everything 
 right again for the entire world. You can meet yourself at the halfway point by collecting only 
 sixty stars, but, as in every videogame created today, there are secrets to unlock, so you would 
 need to earn a grand total of 120 stars in order to completely beat the game. Yet that task alone 
 is easier said than done. Even if you manage to finish each level and collect its star, there are 
 secret stars that are scattered around the univese. Therefore, its task of enticing gamers to soldier 
 on and not give in is accomplished and new ways of winning is explored even further, whether it 
 is how many star bits you can collect on your own or how far the pipe can go. Perhaps the best 
 thing to ever happen out of Super Mario Galaxy or its predessecor is that it is a non-lineear game, 
 which means you aren't forced to stay on a straight path. You are given all the freedom in the 
 world to explore to your hearts content. In laymen's terms, there are plenty of new galaxies to 
 open up at anytime and you are given helpful information from Luigi, your older brother who merely 
 encourages you to keep going and seek out stars that you thought weren't possible to find in the 
 beginning. On top of that, along with Trial Galaxies (galaxies that challenge your speed and time) 
 and accomplishments that you can acheive and brag to your friends offline and on the Wii board, 
 then you'll immediately embrace the fact that this is a game of immense replay value. 
  
  Everything sounds perfect, like a perfect dream that grants your wishes at a whim and you never 
 want to let go of it. But how does it play? The Wii has a new way of allowing gamers to interact 
 and participate in a physical sense and Mario Galaxy also does the trick. While the nunchuk's analog 
 stick allows you to move Mario into any direction that you desire to tread on, a quick, sharp shake 
 on the Wiimote enables you to spin in place, a quick reminder of Michael Jackson spinning on the 
 stage floor in his glory days. However, you may need to wait a second or two before you are given 
 the go-ahead to reactivate the spinning attack. With the jump button, you will witness Mario jumping 
 in his classic jumping stance, but if you find yourself curious to press the jump button two mroe 
 times, he shows off a few new jumps that allow you to go higher than before. You can also perform 
 long jumps, backward flips, or even slde flips, all coming straight out of the Super Mario 64 playbook. 
 With the Wiimote, however, its a whole new ballgame, as you able to collect star bits at a distance 
 through a pointer. This enables the chore of earning star bits to be less tedious and easier to 
 accomplish. Star bits play an important role in Super Mario Galaxies, as they act as your currency. 
 Gold coins, which are scattered in the game, merely act as your highest score, but star bits help 
 immensly in revealing hidden galaxies and granting the player an extra life every time they earn 
 fifty star bits. The Wiimote is also used cleverly in unique situations, such as ray-skating by 
 teetering the Wiimote left and right or spinning in stars that fire Mario into a new part of the 
 planet, like a cannon firing off a human being into the skies and flying for many miles until landing 
 safely on the ground. The controls for Super Mario Galaxy are just as tight and resposnive, so 
 controlling Mario is a breeze and if you happen to fall down into a poisonous swamp or get yourself 
 stomped on by a Thomp, it ain't the game's fault, that would be yours, so there is no excuse on 
 the control design's part to make you fail, as it gives you the right tools and balance to succeed. 
 
  
  Visually, Super Mario Galaxy is the best-looking game on the Wii. Nintendo has clearly taken the 
 time to create a game that is a joy to look at. This is the one game that pushes the Wii to the 
 fullest. It is a birght and beautiful world to explore it and every detail, both small and large, 
 are a sight to behold. The animation, which runs in a slik, crispy 60 fps, never dulls the eye 
 of the gamer, as there is so much going on. You'll be visiting a beach with penguins that dive 
 and swim in the water as the bubbles rise and pop. You'll walk through an obstacle with bad guys 
 roaming around as platforms move beneath your feet and around you. No matter where you go, its 
 all about stopping yourself, even for a small while, to gaze at the skies and its stars and admire 
 its majesty as time passes by fast. This is one of those games were gamers will learn to appreciate 
 the time and passion that Nintendo invested in its graphics. After all, the motto "quality over 
 quantity" is a motto that Nintendo never forgetton since the 80s and it shows here. Mario runs, 
 jumps, and spins around flulidly and controls like the car of your dreams - fast, aggressive, yet 
 balanced and neat to your liking. The artwork is also believeable, placing you in worlds that were 
 beyond your imagination, its level designs both clever and inventive, always challenging you and 
 keeping you on your toes as you continue on your quest to save the world. Needless to say, it is 
 the most gorgeous that's been created on the Wii so far and although games like Zelda: Twlight 
 Princess and Metroid Prime Corruption showcases its power in its own way, it fails short, due to 
 Super Mario Galaxy's visual magnifience. 
  
  The sound is one of the best things going for the series and those who are quiaking in their boots 
 and fearing for the worst should have their doubts put to rest. This is one of the best soundtracks 
 that Nintendo has crafted in their career as a top videogame developer. Its a collection of the 
 best Mario tunes to be heard in its predecessors and redone from the ground-up through an orchestra. 
 The result is simply astonishing. These are the kind of tunes that will stick to your head for 
 days, filled with catchy beats and haunting melodies that you think wouldn't be good, yet would 
 prove you wrong in the end. Of course, all the bells and whistles that you heard in the past have 
 returned and its not much of a significant impact as far as sound effects go, but the music makes 
 up for everything. Its where your head will be entranced by its mesmerizing piano melodies or its 
 simple, yet effective guitar notes. The team over at Nintendo have conjured up a soundtrack that 
 will satisfy everyone and there's a certain song or two that will appeal to just about everybody 
 and would even make you go so far in recalling a game or movie that you'd think it would perfectly 
 fit in. For example, the first track that involves strictly piano would have been perfect for an 
 RPG such as Chrono Trigger or its bouncy melody over at Beach Bowl Galaxy would feel just right 
 for a game like Donkey Kong Country. All in all, this is a soundtrack that many would hope to see 
 be released in the form of a compact disc, because it is one soundtrack that is worth owning. 
 
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is the one game that everyone has been waiting for. All the planets and stars 
 have been aligned and Nintendo have taken the lessons they have learned nearly ten years ago with 
 Super Mario 64 and used them here on Super Mario Galaxy. You can always count on Nintendo to deliver 
 not just the jaw-dropping visuals or the unforgettable soundtrack, but the addictive, yet fun gameplay 
 as well. The Mario series has always been about treking through various lands and escaping danger 
 through jumping or special abilities, all the while exploring what it has to offer and allowing 
 gamers to let it all in and enjoy it. For a decade, while other developers have gone on to push 
 both past, present, and future systems to the limit in other ways, Nintendo never strayed off the 
 beaten path and continued to deliver one success after another, knowing that they are a company 
 that anyone can count on. Super Mario Galaxy is everything you wanted out of a Mario game and everything 
 you ever wanted out of a platformer. This game doesn't just re-create the sensational experience 
 that was first discovered in Super Mario 64, it recreates the way of thinking on how platformers 
 should be done. Therefore, there is no reason not to miss out on this game at all this year, for 
 it is not only one of the best Mario games to come out in a long time, but it is also 2007's Wii 
 game of the year. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: culley1414
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of Mario games. I played the original on the first nintendo as a very young kid 
 and loved it. For the most part (other than Super Mario 64 and New Super Mario Bros) I had been 
 drawn away from the games revolving around just mario. This game definitely healed that separation. 
 When I first heard of the game and how it worked I would have never guessed it would have succeeded 
 as much as it did. This game does not over use the wii remote so you don't have to be too skilled 
 to play this. This is a very much, pick up and play kinda game. Unexperienced gamers will like 
 how easy it is. The screwed up gravity in the game is also a factor that is great and adds to the 
 trickiness of some puzzles. Story is always the same so I can't judge by that. Graphics are amazing 
 for a wii game. SMG has showed me that it is possible to make some game look remotely Next Gen. 
 Overall great, solid game and well worth it for mario fans as well as gamers young and old. This, 
 too me, makes me even more excited for future games such as Super Smash Bros., a game I have always 
 liked, and Mario Kart Wii, another classic series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prankinyou
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  From beggining to end it's pretty much the smae old crap. Princess Peach gets captured by the giant 
 koopa, Bowser. This time it has style to our fair maiden's capture, a UFO that you see MOVING only 
 once in the game. Mario goes up into space and can breathe with no helmet, and Kamerak, I think 
 that how you spell it, hits our beloved hero into space. Then a Luma, chicken looking star, comes 
 and somehow helps mario to a near by planet. Then the chicken turns into a rabbit, sounds completely 
 resoniable doesn't, the you chase the bunnies and find an emo looking queen.
  So lets begin the review, the story line at the very beggining is so dull and weak. After you get 
 your spin power then stuff gets fun. The graphics are great, storyline is dull, controls are hard 
 at some points, power-ups are great, stages are unique and awsome, names are very obvious but that's 
 ok, and Mario look so good. Although this game gets a little boring when you pass 90 stars the 
 comet stars are there to challange you to the MAX. I'm at 117 stars right now but soon I will beat 
 at 100% and their is suppose to be a secret. In conclusion this game is wrth playing for at least 
 two months, and the wii all play the Brawl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JPS913
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Before writing anything else, I have to admit that I've not played Super Mario Sunshine for more 
 than 15 minutes at a time since its release five years ago. That being said, I can't begin to judge 
 the game's merit based on such minimal play time, but through watching reviews over the years and 
 paying close attention to what people had to say, Sunshine didn't seem to capture the Super Mario 
 64 feel that everyone was so eagerly awaiting. It's safe to say the wait is finally over.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy recreates the same fantastical, imaginative feeling that wowed gamers over 
 11 years ago, and has done so in ways that make this chapter in Mario's adventures a classic in 
 its own right. The play on gravity, coupled with some remarkably creative galaxies, classic Mario 
 move sets, and a myriad of other nostalgic and fresh elements, make this game recommendable to 
 any gamer and an instant classic.
  
  Story
  
  To steal from many of the reviews already out there on this game, Galaxy's story isn't its strong 
 point, nor has story ever been the strong point of any traditional Mario platformer. Peach wants 
 to give Mario something, which means he has to go to the castle to get it, which means something 
 terribly wrong involving Bowser will occur. In other words, Princess will need saving. We all know 
 it, we all love it. 
  
  Controls
  
  Controlling Mario feels just a natural with a Wii remote and nun chuck as it did with a conventional 
 controller. The nun chuck's analog stick moves Mario, while the Wii remote is used to collect star 
 bits, perform jumps, and execute some fun motion-sensing actions. It's great to see that Nintendo 
 didn't go the typical Wii route and implement gimmicky motion controls to ruin an awesome game. 
 The Wii-specific controls are appropriately implemented with the right amount of frequency and 
 creativity that they don't ever become repetitive or tiresome. Additionally, performing Mario's 
 signature 3-D moves should feel intuitive to anyone who's played Super Mario 64 or Sunshine. His 
 back flip, long jump, wall jumps, somersault, etc. are just as you would expect them - a combination 
 of the jump button and a modifier (either a duck (Z) , a direction, or multiple taps of the jump 
 button) . A new addition to Mario's move set is the spin attack, which is executed with a simple 
 flick of the remote. This move either defeats enemies entirely or sets them up for a visit from 
 Mario's boots. 
  
  Graphics:
  
  If you've been following Galaxy through the countless screen shots and videos posted over the Internet, 
 you know just how beautiful this game is. The funny thing is these media don't do the game justice. 
 The moment you turn the game on, you'll be thrown back in awe by the game's visuals. The colors, 
 textures, and design of the game's characters and environments are so well-done one might be persuaded 
 that Galaxy was made for one of the more graphically capable consoles out right now, if one didn't 
 know any better. The animation is top notch, the water effects are simply amazing, as are many 
 of the surface textures and reflection, but the real feat is the game's worlds. Each galaxy has 
 a different look and feel. The same can be said a lot of the time even about different parts of 
 the same galaxy. One second your atop a grassy knoll of bright colors, the next your scaling the 
 walls of a grim castle. It's obvious that the designer's went the extra mile to meet the standards 
 set by Mario's first 3-D outing, and boy, do they hit the mark.
  
  
  
  Audio
  
  The game's sound effects are the typical fun/whimsical noises one would expect from a Mario game. 
 They bring a great sense of familiarity to long-time Mario lovers, and make it hard for newcomers 
 to not find them cute. Galaxy's music is a good mix of old and new. You'll hear some great music 
 (like the theme used in many of Galaxy's trailers and commercials, which I absolutely love) new 
 to the series, as well as some older music updated with orchestration to fit the game's environments 
 and new setting. Each song is paired nicely with their environments or specific boss fight, which 
 only adds to Galaxy's incredible universe.
  
  Old and New
  
  Aside from the music, Galaxy includes some new twists on old things. Super Mario Bros. 3 introduced 
 to the series suits that extended Mario's capabilities beyond those of the fire flower and invincibility 
 star. Those suits have returned in the form of items that transform Mario into a bee, ice Mario, 
 fire Mario, even boo Mario. These suits are fun additions to the series and strike a good balance 
 between innovation and nostalgia.
  
  Closing Remarks 
  
  For those of you who've been waiting for the sequel to Super Mario 64, Super Mario Galaxy is your 
 game. It doesn't reinvent the 3-D platformer the way SM 64 did, but it does add to its formula 
 some great game play mechanics and stellar visual and audio upgrades. For anyone with a Wii, this 
 game is hands down the Wii's killer app. It's blend of old and new, undoubtedly gorgeous visuals, 
 nice music and sound elements, and overall Mario-ness make Super Mario Galaxy one of the best Mario 
 games released in a while, maybe even ever. Don't pass on this one, please.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _ButterS_
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so I'm probably the sore thumb out of all these reviews giving this game an 8 rather than a 
 high 9 or 10 but, to be honest, I don't know why many people find this game to be "perfect."
  
  Anyways, let's start with the good. The game is like nothing I've seen or played before. The 
 visuals are clean and the small particle effects are a nice touch when running through different 
 planets in the game. But, it's not only the visuals that make this a great game, it's also the 
 innovation that was put into the game. Super Mario Galaxy takes the whole Mario series to a whole 
 nother level or "galaxy" if you will. Mario runs, jumps, and flies through different galaxies and 
 planets throughout the game. The camera also moves with Mario when he's running around a planet 
 or jumping across another one. This may take some getting used to, but in the end it's sure worthwhile 
 to see Mario's new moves in new worlds.
  
  Now for my reasons for rating this game a nasty 8. Ok first off, I knew that this game would be 
 like any typical Mario game, but I didn't expect it to be so short and unbelievably linear. Sure, 
 running and jumping through planets looks entertaining after the first day or two, but, it tends 
 to get very repetitive and tedious doing the same procedures over and over again. I was expecting 
 a Mario game that would let me use Mario to his full potential, by this I mean using his special 
 powers whenever I feel. I wish it were like the very first Super Mario Bros when you would grab 
 a fire mushroom and keep the fireball technique until you get hurt. Rather, in Galaxies, you are 
 TIMED and LIMITED to how long you can use that particular power. Also, how about being able to 
 use certain attributes in any level? If I remember correctly, Super Mario World for the SNES allowed 
 you to collect power ups and keep them until you feel like using them. I would have loved it if 
 this were true for galaxies. Instead, it's just a rinse and repeat procedure involving a spin/shoot, 
 stomp/kick maneuver. In many cases, I find myself trying to look for something fun and interesting 
 when it's really not there. A true let down at the most. 
  
  Closing, this is still a great game. Mario has never looked better and the originality in game 
 play makes up for the cons. Would I recommend it to Mario fans? Yes. Would I recommend it to skeptical 
 gamers? I would tell them to "rent it first." Nonetheless, Super Mario Galaxy a beautifully well 
 made game with plenty of originality.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lunar52
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Wow oh wow this is one of the best games I have ever played. This is a perfect game. Well here's 
 my review.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  This game has the best graphics for any mario game and the best graphics on the wii hands way down. 
 All of the major details and all of the subtle details are so well made that it is definatly eye-candy. 
 I don't buy games for there graphics but these are really good!
  
  Controls: 10/10
  
  The controls house a mix of the old with a mix of the new that I call this Galaxy controls. There 
 so well done because of the old triple A-tap triple jump and the back flip and all of the old methods 
 from Mario 64 if you know what i meen. And then theres a simple flick of the wii-mote that can 
 accomplish SOoOo many feats! You cannot put the controls down.
  
  Sound/Music: 10/10
  
  The sound isnt Dolby 5.0 but its still good. But however, the music in the game is incredibly well 
 done and synchs into the game really well. The sound and the music are great!
  
  Hours and hours of fun is what you will get if you buy this game. Close this review and go out 
 and buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemigodDragid
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  After a few questionable 3D Mario game releases after the ground breaking release of Super Mario 
 64 things were beginning to look bleak for the unlikely hero, that was until Nintendo released 
 this masterpiece. Mario takes to the stars on a quest to rescue the princess once again from the 
 evil king, Bowser. Once again Mario will have to travel through all sorts of worlds in search once 
 again for the Power Stars. Sound familiar? Well I guess it would for anyone who played Super Mario 
 64 but of course there's a bit of a twist to this one, Bowser has pulled the castle right from 
 the ground and taken it into space forcing our hero to take to the stars.
  
  Galaxy starts off very similar to it's N64 counterpart as Mario receives a letter from Princess 
 Peach inviting him to the castle in order to take part in the Star Festival which takes place every 
 100 years when a huge comet flies over the Mushroom Kingdom raining down pieces of star bits onto 
 the kingdom below. However once Mario arrives at the kingdom nothing goes the way he had thought 
 it would as flames begin to rain down on the kingdom as he heads for the castle just for Bowser 
 and Bowser Jr. to appear aboard their spacecraft as they continue to rip the castle right from 
 the ground and pull it up into space. Through all of this Mario tries to get to the princess just 
 to be launched into space by one of Bowser's henchmen.
  
  Mario ends up coming to the Comet Observatory which is broken down due to the Power Stars going 
 missing. On the Observatory Mario meets a few new friends in the mysterious star like creatures 
 known as the Lumas and the princess and leader of the Observatory, Rosalina. Mario ends up receiving 
 a Luma partner of his own allowing him to master all sorts of new skills including launching himself 
 through space and his new primary attack where he spins around attacking all enemies around him. 
 With the help of his new Luma friend and the Observatory Mario is able to travel through many different 
 galaxies, each with a different feel then the last. Of course Mario will need a certain amount 
 of Power Stars in order to unlock more Galaxies and more Observatories through out the Comet Observatory. 
 
  
  The controls for this Mario adventure work very similar to those of past installments in the Mario 
 series except for the added Wii specific controls. In order to play the game you will need both 
 the Wii Remote and the Nunchuck. Moving Mario around will be very much the same as before as you 
 will simply use the control stick on the Nunchuck, making him jump will simply be done from a tap 
 of the A button just as it has always been, and of course the triple jump is still intact and preformed 
 simply by timing another tap of the A button once Mario lands from his first and second jumps. 
 As for attacking you will need to shake either the Remote or the Nunchuck, this movement will be 
 required for many other actions throughout the game as well, including using Star Gates which are 
 used to launch Mario through each galaxy allowing him to access many more of the planet like spheres 
 throughout each galaxy. 
  
  Mario has always been known to take on all sorts of new forms and once again Mario takes this concept 
 to the next level as he adds five brand new forms to his arsenal. Of course a few more familiar 
 forms will be making an appearance including a few long term favorites in the form of the Fire 
 Flower and the invincibility star which takes on a new form as the Rainbow Star. Of course there 
 are all sorts of other mini game like activities throughout the game including Ray Surfing where 
 you ride on the back of a Manta Ray as you navigate through an obstacle course using the Wii Remote 
 to steer to the goal. 
  
  Of course the game is crammed full of boss fights which although they can be quite easy at time 
 tend to be amazingly fun. Close to each of the different galaxies have at least one boss fight 
 and some even have multiple to keep the levels interesting. Of course throughout the game you will 
 have to fight against Bowser, Bowser Jr., and a few of their minions in order to collect the main 
 stars from each set of galaxies in order to move onto even more galaxies.
  
  As the game goes on you will also be forced to return to many of the galaxies in order to take 
 place in even more challenging levels in what is know as the Comet Missions. During these missions 
 you will be forced to play through each of those levels again with some sort of special condition 
 caused by the comets effects. Some of these missions can be as simple as having to make it through 
 the galaxy in a certain amount of time to a bit harder missions like having to race a cosmic version 
 of Mario or even having to collect one hundred purple coins through out the level. 
  
  Overall Super Mario keeps to a similar style as Super Mario 64 and Super Mario Sunshine while adding 
 some new game play mechanics supporting the space theme. The graphics are much more sleek then 
 any Mario game before and although the storyline could use some work it's not like the Mario series 
 was ever known for it's innovative story but instead it's exciting and unique game play making 
 it a must have for all Wii owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waldenshimmy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  This is the BEST GAME FOR WII EVER! The game starts in the star festival. Mario is going to visit 
 peach in the castle, when bowser drops in and takes peach's castle into the sky! Then the star 
 people, (luma's) take mario into space to meet princess Rosalina. Rosalina tells mario that bowser 
 has taken all the power stars and they can no longer fly through the universe. Mario now must travel 
 through galaxies (hence the name mario galaxy) to retrieve the power stars. The only flaw with 
 this game is that I found it a bit too easy, you always knew what to do and the bosses were to 
 easy, unlike zelda twilight princess which i found much harder. Also, I think you need more lives 
 than 3. Other than that, best game to date!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshi892
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy was one of the most eagerly awaited games for Mario fans and Wii owners alike. 
 It was set to be the next leap in platforming games, much like Super Mario 64 was in 1996. To achieve 
 this, the team at Nintendo worked space and gravity into the equation whilst keeping the core Mario 
 gameplay we all know and love. So just how good did this game turn out?
  
  The answer is quite simple. Super Mario Galaxy is arguably the best platforming games released 
 in recent years and quite possibly one of the best, if not the best, games ever released. This 
 may sound slightly exaggerated but trust me, it's not. The gameplay is flawless, the graphics are 
 polished, the soundtrack is phenomenal and the presentation is sublime. What more could you ask 
 of a game. 
  
  Gameplay
  
  Like most Mario games, Super Mario Galaxy provides an excellent experience for the gamer. The controls 
 are tight and have very few flaws. If there is one problem with the controls it would be when Mario 
 is swimming. During this period sometimes it can be quite frustrating when it doesn't do exactly 
 what you would have wanted. The camera very occasionally (and I mean very occasionally) leaves 
 you a bit stuck when you cant quite see what comes next. For those of you worrying don't, as it's 
 10 times better than the camera in Super Mario Sunshine. It is automatic and does a very good job 
 of keeping you right next to the action. The new special power-ups such as Bee Mario and Ghost 
 Mario all control well and add some variation to the game.
  
  Graphics
  
  Super Mario Galaxy features the most gorgeous and polished graphics we have yet to see on the Nintendo 
 Wii. The slowdown is minimal and it runs at a very constant 60fps. The animations are gorgeous 
 and all the characters are flourished with detail and personality.
  
  Presentation
  
  You've got the basic Mario storyline of Princess Peach gets kidnapped and you have to rescue her. 
 If you are buying Super Mario Galaxy for its story then think again because it is hardly the most 
 original story. This time there is a slight twist and you get the option to hear a 'side story' 
 which tells the story of Princess Rosalina and how she ended up where she was. There is WiiConcect24 
 support where you can send shots of your high score tables for your friends to view. Overall presentation 
 is fantastic.
  
  Sound
  
  The music which Koji Kondo and his team have conjured up for this game is incredible. The orchestrated 
 music contrasting with the classic Mario themes works a treat. The minimal voice work which is 
 in the game is also good and Mario is well voiced by Charles Martinet. This is definitely a massive 
 plus for the game.
  
  Overall
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is clearly one of the best games ever made. Nothing else could really be done 
 to make this game any better and to call it anything but perfect, would be a lie.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 973849
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Lets get one thing out of the way, if my review sounds rather negative, it doesnt matter you must 
 buy this game.
  
  I, like most wii owners, have been following Galaxy since day one. And the early news on Galaxy 
 was that it was going to redefine the way all platformers are played, just like Mario 64 did. I 
 am glad I did not beleive these rumors for a second, because i would have been thoroughly dissapointed 
 with the game. Super Mario Galaxy is not a game that will leave a lasting mark on the industry 
 of gaming, or serve as a stepping stone for the next generation. But it is a game that perfects 
 the art of a platformer to deliver something truley special. It may not leave a mark on the gaming 
 industry as a whole, but do not think for a second that Super Mario Galaxy will be remembered for 
 anything less than the wii's best and most memorable game.
  
  You have probably heard Nintendo say that "Galaxy is the spiritual successor to Mario 64." That 
 is basicaly true, as the 2 games play almost identically to eachother. The big differences. Graphics, 
 physics, and level design. 
  
  The graphics are obviously uncomparable, as the games were released 10 years apart. And there is 
 no doubt that 64's graphics were more groundbreaking when it was released for the n64, but in a 
 time were graphics reign supreme and the wii is known as the weak graphical console, i think Galaxy 
 does just as big of a job. Bright and vibrant worlds compliment outstanding character models, lighting, 
 textures, you name it. The best looking wii game period. 
  
  Mario Galaxy obviously had much more room to work with with its level design. The gravity puzzles 
 are amazing and stand side to side with some of the best level design in the history of gaming. 
 Some of these puzzles are the most wacky things you have ever seen and certainly leave a lasting 
 impression on you. Mario always seemed a bit hard to control at times in Mario 64, and the camera 
 could get irritating. Well i am happy to say that Mario controls great and the camera is 98% of 
 the time flawless.
  
  The soundtrack in Super Mario Galaxy leaves me speechless. it is astounding, outstanding, spectacular, 
 whatever great words you can think of. the music is it what truely compliments the amazing mix 
 of old and new. You have some classic mario tunes some new mario tunes, some classic effects like 
 the jingle that plays while you fall into a black hole. There must be a crazy number of different 
 sounds that were used to show what surface mario was walking on. Great detail on everything with 
 effects. The only thing that is missing is voice acting. Ironicaly enough i find myself wincing 
 whenever there is a little thrown dialouge in there. characters like Mario Peach and Bowser just 
 dont need voice acting, unlike zelda, where voice acting is very heavily needed.
  
  Mario Galaxy is not a revelation. It doesn not rewrite any rules for platforming, It wont be modeled 
 after for some brand new amazing gameplay technique. No instead it will be modeled after for its 
 outstanding design and detail for third -party developers trying to make an outstanding wii game. 
 Is Super Mario Galaxy the best mario game yet? Who knows? Who cares? It doesnt matter. It; s best 
 you dont think about that sort of thing and just sit down and play. 9.7= 9.5 BRING BACK OLD RATING 
 SCALE.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: f5lesnar2000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is simply among the best of the best. Developed as a true sequel to Super Mario 
 64, Galaxy excels at pretty much everything it sets out to do. In terms of set-up the game is very 
 much like 64, you travel around a HUB and visit many other levels scattered about. These levels, 
 called galaxies, are cleverly designed and extremly enjoyable. With some levels being composed 
 of small planets while others are large landscapes there is a wide variety. The premise is simple, 
 in Mario fashion Princess Peach has been kidnapped by Bowser and its up to Mario to save her. What 
 Galaxy does differently than Sunshine and 64 is incorporate the level design and use of gravity 
 with the traditional Mario mechanics. Mario can collect Star Bits which offer new areas to explore 
 and some other goodies like extra lives. It only takes 60 stars to complete the game but there 
 are 120 total, which if you get allows a great unlockable. Graphics are the best yet seen on the 
 Wii, controls have been designed in a such a way where they work well in any gravitational situation. 
 The only complaint is the camera system, every once in a while it doesn't give you the best possible 
 angle. Super Mario Galaxy is one of the few games anyone can enjoy, whether your a Nintendo diehard, 
 or a casual gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prolifikshadow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  Using motion controls to guide Mario through space. What more do you need? Incredible level design, 
 absolutely stunning graphics (even without component cables) , and just all around goodness. Hands 
 down the greatest platformer of all time. The innovation reveals itself from the beginning, as 
 you run around a strange small round planet chasing a golden rabbit. The only thing that stopped 
 me from giving this a 10 is the difficulty. Sadly, its really easy so far. I haven't beaten it 
 yet (I have about 40 stars) but like Super Mario 64 and Super Mario Sunshine, the difficulty level 
 is set on easy, permanently. There are a few levels where you will lose a few lives, but since 
 1-ups are everywhere, there is no real threat. The mark of a great Wii game is a game where the 
 controls are so balanced and subtle, that you don't even realize your using the motion control. 
 It just becomes part of the game, not many games have pulled this off. I would say the ones that 
 have successfully done this are Mario, Metroid Prime 3, and Twilight Princess. it just feels natural. 
 Basically the story is the same Mario story, Bowser wrecks a party, takes the Princess, and sends 
 you into space. You are joined by a fairy type creature called a luma. He is taken to the luma's 
 home which is your standard level selection hub. From there you go to different galaxies and different 
 planets in those galaxies. There is a nice mix of old and new characters, including some competition 
 for Peach in the form of the mother of luma's Rosalina. You meet up with toads and luma's, and 
 even save your brother Luigi from, you guessed it, a haunted mansion. It cannot own a Wii and not 
 own Super Mario Galaxy. And if you do I will hunt you down, tie you up and drag you to your local 
 game store. Sorry but thats the way it has to be. Thanks for reading, Nintendo forever!
  
  P. S. The threat was sarcasm, do not call the police. Please, its happened twice this month. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrainV
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY:10/10. the gameplay succeeds on every level. it does not disappoint like sunshine. just 
 wandering around and experimenting with gravity is just so exhilarating. all of the gameplay elements 
 are done so well. there are also several powerups, even though some of the power ups are kind of 
 limited, they make the game feel more fresh than 64. ( i'm not talking about the multiplayer because 
 i never used it)
  THE GRAPHICS. 10/10: the graphics are quite frankly the best on the wii period. even though its 
 ont as detailed as not 360 games of ps3 games. its still just really pretty.
  SOUND 9.9/10: the sound effects and the outstanding soundtrack are pretty much the only thing you 
 can say about the sound. the reason why its not perfect 10 because it would be nice to have some 
 more voice over work.
  VALUE: 10/10: there is a lot of replay value. most gamers would want to get all 120 stars. the 
 game is worth playing again and again and again. 
  TILT: 9.5/10: the camera is an improvement from sunshine. its not perfect, some times it gets in 
 the way of certain rounds, but it never becomes an issue. the camera problems are almost nonexintent 
 except for a couple of occasions 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: samthevillan
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  This is the kind of game that comes along very, very rarely. From the opening scene you are wowed 
 by beautiful, colourful graphics and great music. The controls have clearly had a lot of work put 
 into them because at no point in the game does anything feel anything other than perfectly done. 
 As you'd expect the first few levels are fairly simple to complete but the difficulty soon increases, 
 especially when you're trying to get all the stars in each galaxy. Each star really does feel like 
 a perfectly designed level in itself and there is never the feeling that you're just retracing 
 your steps but with a different objective, something often experienced in both Mario 64 and Sunshine 
 (eg collecting the blue/red coins) . Even the comet levels (redoing a level but with constraints 
 such as limited time or health or super fast baddies stand up as the pressure put on the player 
 changes the experience from doing the level first time completely.
  It really is nearly impossible to fault this game in any way, the only thing I could say is that 
 I'm going to be gutted once I've got all 120 stars and there is no more! Even then, there's the 
 chance to take screen captures of records achieved in the race levels or compare how many coins 
 you've managed to get with your mates. Of course, I could just start all over...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: panosfz6
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 2:30 am PT
Review:  There is just one thing I can say about this game ITS PERFECT.
  
  I bought this game together with Assassins creed (xbox360) the game won me in every aspect. I am 
 not saying this is AC but its more fun and more addictive, once you start playing you wont want 
 to stop.
  
  I am 35 years old and a hard core gamer played through Halo1-2-3, Gears, Cod4. SMG is the best 
 fun I have had the last 5 years. 
  
  I wont go into graphics, sound and game play you have heard all this before.
  
  If you have 
 a wii buy this it will be the best game in your collection, and if you dont have a wii I really 
 feel sorry for you (GO FIND ONE NOW ) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ApeEscapeExpert
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is the BEST Mario game I ever played! The graphics and gameplay are soild and 
 awesome, and it really utillize the Wii Remote a lot. I like the co-op the most. The powerups are 
 great, and I LOVE THE MUSIC! THE MUSIC IS VERY WELL COMPOSED! I LUV IT! THAT I EVEN PUT IT IN MY 
 MP3 PLAYER! The galaxies have a huge environment, and planets to blast off to. The bosses are easy 
 to defeat, the levels are sometimes hard, especially when it comes to good timing. This game is 
 highly recommended for people who luv platformers and Mario. This is the most awesome Wii title 
 I ever played! BEST PLATFORMER EVER PLAYED! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sion_2006
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is truly the best Super Mario game ever, the game starts when Mario got an invitation 
 from Princess toadstool (A. K. A Peach) to attend a Festival (Star festival) in the Mushroom kingdom 
 while Mario is on his way to the castle, Bowser attacked the Mushroom kingdom and took the castle 
 to outer space along with Prince Peach and Mario, but Mario got sent away by Kamek's attack, Mario 
 wakes up and find himself on a small planet where he meets a small star shaped creatures and a 
 princess named Rosalina, she gives Mario a power to travel through galaxies and Mario has to collect 
 numbers of stars to rescue princess Peach, and the Adventure begins......
  
  **Story Score: 9.2
  As usual in Super Mario games, princess got kidnapped and so on...
  
 
  ** gameplay score: 9.8
  Like Mario says "YAHOO-OO!!", it's a game that all the family can enjoy playing it, kids and adults 
 as well.
  
  **control Score: 10
  The game makes a full use of the wii-remote and the nunchuk, you'll never get tired or bored of 
 playing it.
  
  **Graphics score: 9.9
  The graphics are so beautiful and colorful.
  
  **MY score: 10
  Simply the best game ever played.
  
  **suggestion to the players:
  To all 
 Wii owners, add the game to your collections now!
  
  Thanks for reading and hope you enjoy the game like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NetGod
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  The wait for this game was pretty long, but they really managed to deliver a high qulaity game. 
 I was not a huge fan of Mario 64, but the 'scifi' theme really sucked me in to Super Mario Galaxy. 
 Super Mario Galaxy is a very light hearted, easy to play video game thats just plain fun. If I 
 had a kid, this would be on the Christmas list for him/her! Collecting the little gems/stars and 
 coins can be quite addicting. The Wii controller is really put to use in Super Mario Galaxy. The 
 Wii is a great little system, (it sits right next to my 360 and PS3) . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trogi
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  No single series has defined videogames like Mario. This is not mere opinion but rather cold, hard 
 fact: Donkey Kong invented the platformer, Mario Bros. made it cooperative (or competitive, depending 
 on your personality) , Super Mario Bros. perfected it, and Super Mario 64 made it work in three 
 dimensions. Even Mario's spin-offs have been hugely influential, whether through Super Mario Kart 
 creating the mascot racer or in Super Mario RPG introducing action and timing to turn-based role-playing 
 games. Sure, the medium would have evolved just fine without him, but through the years he's consistently 
 led the way to better, more polished game design. Of course, this makes for high expectations -- 
 Mario's slightest misstep is usually treated as abject failure. Certainly he's starred in some 
 genuinely lackluster titles, but even solid but quirky outings that would have been adored under 
 the auspices of a less-revered franchise are often panned by critics and gamers alike 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eggywashi04
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is pretty much the best game for the wii thus far and is definately the type 
 of a game that would make somebody buy the wii just for one game. The graphics of this game aren't 
 on the level of a xbox 360 or a ps3, but really... I don't care because the game is very beautiful 
 to the eyes and the graphics are pretty much the best on the wii so far. But what makes this game 
 so worthwhile unlike games for the 360 is the amazing gameplay, the controls are very very fluid 
 and leave very little if anything to be desiered. Most of all the game is extremely creative, when 
 playing it you can tell that the creators were definately thinking out of the box, especially on 
 the side of physics which truly came out of probably the most creative and revolutionary game creators 
 there are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_chub
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Mario is a legendary series. It has set the bar so high, you never think that Nintendo is going 
 to top it, but they always manage to. Yea, maybe was a let down just like windwaker was, but you 
 know, they were still good games. SMG is just awesome! It is one of those games you just can't 
 stop playing. I've got quite a bit of gametime in this week and all I want to do is just keep playing 
 it. It looks amazing. Levels are unique and fun. Some pretty challenging. This is a must have to 
 anyone who owns a Wii!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rustymilk24
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Every wii owner shoud get this game. it is the best wii game out there and i have it. i knew it 
 was gonna be good but i was amazed. Hardcore mario fans will love this game and so will non fanboys. 
 i am not a hardcore fan but this game changed my look on mario. n n n n n n nn nn n nn n n nn n 
 n nn n n n n nn 
  
  
  
  = ) gf eh df hbdf ghdr gsdr gh drzg sd gsd h df h dgh dfh dfh df h dfh df h dfgh dr terh df hety 
 df d yer y dryd h df h dfh dfhdf h ety et y yhet j rth er yer r hdf h rh tr sh t rdgh t he yh et 
 h fh gf h tr h tr h th tr sy h th rtsh hrs hyt y trh tr h t yuue th h dr 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artiedeadat40
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy one of the best games I have played in years. It is extremely addictive. You 
 wont put this game down until it is over. There is a lot of replay value and unlike sunshine you 
 will not be disappointed after an hour or two of playing it, a huge step up from it's predecessor. 
 Galaxy is almost as good as Super Mario 64 which was phenomenal for it's time.
  The gravity effects are great and most of the time the camera is dead on I just wish you have more 
 control of the camera there are times where it can be very, very frustrating. The camera in Mario 
 64 is actually a little better than galaxy. The spring suit is the only other down side of the 
 game. There is very little control with the spring suit. Other than those two complaints this is 
 a great game that I highly recommend, besides what else are you going to buy another shooting game? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is the kind of game people dream about, but the kind of game that almost never 
 comes along. It's chock full of old school goodness, hardcore action, nostalgic rushes, and a fairytale 
 like story that even the oldest of people will find refreshing. Yes, dream no more, Mario is back 
 and better than ever.
  
  Like many other games (or rather all of the other games) in the series, the game starts off with 
 Princess Peach getting kidnapped.... again. This time though, prepare to leave your safety zone 
 of the mushroom kingdom for, no, not that craptacular tropical paradise Isle Delfino, but the boundless 
 area of outer space. You'll quickly become familiar with a princess-like character, Rosalina (commonly 
 referred to as simply "mama") . Your hub world is set on her starship, the observatory. Like in 
 Super Mario 64's castle and Super Mario Sunshine's Isle Delfino, the observatory serves as the 
 connection to all of the many galaxies set in the game.
  
  What are galaxies, you ask? Essentially, they are the equivalent of the worlds in past games. Each 
 galaxy has its own theme, some fire themed, some ice themed, some with frightening themes, some 
 with dark themes, and even some with toy themes and pastry themes. Without a doubt, the thing that 
 stands out the most in this game is the varied galaxies you'll discover. Not one is at all repetitive, 
 and these worlds are undoubtedly the single most creative and imaginative you'll ever find in a 
 video game. The clever design of each is astounding, and you'll constantly be scratching your head 
 thinking "Wow, that was absolutely brilliant!" 
  
  Along with the fresh new design of the worlds, with innovative spherical designs to be found throughout 
 most of the game, comes the classic Mario gameplay we've come to know and love in Super Mario 64. 
 Just like the previous two Mario games, you'll be collecting 120 power stars (or shines, in Sunshine's 
 case) to save the universe. While only sixty are required to complete the game, collecting all 
 120 stars will present you with a reward you're bound to find worthwhile. The refreshing platforming 
 in Galaxy is perhaps what makes this game truly stand out from the rest. The simple fact that they 
 managed to perfect the Mario gameplay and create a fresh, innovative experience at the same time 
 is what makes Super Mario Galaxy excel. Tricky puzzles and intense nostalgic platforming combined 
 make this the best 3D Mario game yet.
  
  As for Wii Remote usage, you'll quickly find that motion control is not forced upon you by any 
 means. But, at the same time, the way that the game does use motion control is fitting and works 
 very well. To do your nifty spin attack, you'll slightly shake the remote... which worked 100% 
 of the time in my playthrough. In addition to this, you'll notice a tiny star cursor on your screen 
 that you can move around using the IR control in the Wii Remote. The cursor actually adds a lot 
 to the experience, you can collect star bits (the currency in Super Mario Galaxy, which is found 
 more frequently than coins interestingly enough) which can either be used to shoot your enemies, 
 pay to lumas to unlock new galaxies, or can give you 1UPs with every fifty you collect. It actually 
 adds an interesting shooting element to the game... but at the same time you could most likely 
 go the entire game without ever shooting any of the star bits. Of course, chances are it will be 
 beneficial to do so.
  
  In reality, the only real complaints to have with Super Mario Galaxy would be its occassionally 
 frustrating camera. Because it uses an automatic camera rather than a manual one, the camera will 
 sometimes switch to a position rather confusing for the particular situation. Specifically, the 
 camera underwater will most likely confuse you, since the amount of manual control you have over 
 the camera is so minimal. For the most part, however, the camera is right on top of everything 
 it should be focused on. For an automatic camera, it more than suits the purpose, but excels beyond 
 what your expectations would usually be for an automatic camera in the platforming genre. Along 
 with this, the game may be a bit easy for more experienced players.... that isn't to say that there 
 won't be some very tricky and challenging moments throughout the game though. If you want to collect 
 all 120 stars, prepare for some serious work. Thankfully, while some levels may be relatively easy 
 to play through, they are never dull, which stays true to Shigeru Miyamoto's philosophy of gameplay.
 
  
  Visually, Mario is not only looking better on Wii than he ever has before, but his new game is 
 easily the best looking game on Wii.... or better yet, the best looking platformer this generation. 
 The art style used fits the Mario theme extremely well, but at the same time creates a certain 
 galactic flair you are bound to pick up on. The colorful visuals and technically advanced graphics 
 for the Wii are simply amazing. At times, you'll begin to question if your eyes are perhaps even 
 playing tricks on you! Indeed, this could easily fit in with some of the many games on the other 
 two platforms. The colorful pop and cheerful sugar coated graphics definitely set the standard 
 extremely high for future Wii titles.
  
  Concerning the audio, Super Mario Galaxy stands out as having one of the most beautiful soundtracks 
 of any game. The development team has truly evolved the sound of Mario's tunes by giving it orchestrated 
 music, rather than the usual MIDI music. Is it a success? I encourage you to listen to the music 
 for yourself to understand just how truly successful the music is. You'll find yourself revisiting 
 galaxies just to listen to the music of that particular galaxy again. There are definitely a ton 
 of great remixes of old Mario music (which are extremely well done) , and many new pieces as well 
 that are equally as good, and sometimes better. This great blend of music combined with some small 
 but good voice overs (Charles Martinet of course never disappoints with Mario's small voice overs) 
 and great sound effects make this game's audio one of the best of all time.
  
  While once you beat the game and collect all 120 of the game's power stars, you'll probably find 
 that there isn't a ton of replay value, the simple fact that you'll probably spend roughly fifteen 
 hours beating the game and a whopping thirty hours doing every single thing in the game is more 
 than enough to satisfy you for quite awhile. Not only this, but you're bound to enjoy just replaying 
 some of your favorite scenarios in your favorite galaxies. Everything in the game is so polished 
 and perfected, that it would be hard not to want to replay some of these galaxies. Plus, there 
 is an included "Co-Star" mode as well, which adds an extra cursor to the screen for the second 
 player to point at Mario and make him jump, collect star bits, or help out in other helpful or 
 sometimes hindersome ways. It may not be a fully fleshed out co-op mode, but it's definitely a 
 nice touch to the overall experience if you have someone else that is willing to play. The intuitive 
 design of Co-Star mode can appeal to everyone, which is a good thing if you can't find a true "gamer" 
 to play with.
  
  Overall, this is the game that proves what Wii is about. Innovation. Quality. Intuitive design. 
 I could easily go on and on, but ultimately I need not describe to you what this game offers. Once 
 you play it for yourself, you'll quickly learn that this is an experience that can not be matched 
 on any other console, new or old. Super Mario Galaxy's sugar coated fun and fresh new take on the 
 platforming genre creates the first true Wii game that is not only a must-have for any and everyone, 
 but the game that will give you reason to buy a Wii. This is Mario like he's never been before, 
 and he's better than ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icefox47
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  So I went into Best Buy the other day, and I saw Super Mario Galaxy on the shelf. I thought to 
 myself, "Hey, I was going to pre-order this. Guess I'll go over to Gamestop and do that" and headed 
 for the door. 
  
  *blink*
  
  "Wait, crap, it's OUT already? Well then! I guess I'm buying it!"
  
  I figured it would be 
 pretty good since it is, you know, Nintendo's pride and joy. But a whole slew of other games came 
 out recently that got great ratings. Bioshock, Crysis, CoD4 etc. So I zipped the disc into my Wii 
 with the hope of having fun until I wanted to get back to killing things with my rocket launcher 
 in UTIII.
  
  MAN, was I wrong.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is just about the best game I've played for a while on the Wii. Actually, it's 
 the best game I've played in a while, period. NOTHING released in recent years can compare to this. 
 Why is it so good?
  
  It's classic Mario. It's a return to the Mario games before we had Mario Party 8 and Mario Hoops 
 3-on-3. It's the Mario that we all know and love, with the same "rescue that freaking Peach" storyline. 
 But it's good. Because...
  
  It's not Super Mario 64 DS. It's not a rehash in the SLIGHTEST. Sure, the story is basically the 
 same. But the entire premise of the game involves walking around the surface of planets with some 
 kind of non-Newtonian physics going on. Plus, the little things that older Mario fans will enjoy 
 are the subtle things, like how Mario takes off his hat after "jumping out of a painting" and getting 
 a star, and the music that's remixed to fit an appropriate scene.
  
  I won't go on about how good it is, because you can find a much more in-depth analysis by a professional 
 writer easily. But what makes the game so great is the time and effort that was put into making 
 this Mario game take all the elements of a classic, and put an amazingly fun spin on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSgamer64
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  After the somewhat disappointing release of Super Mario Sunshine on the GameCube some 5 years ago, 
 Mario once again returns in his latest adventure to foil the plans of the evil Bowser, king of 
 the Koopa's. Thankfully, Nintendo has once again proven why they are the kings of the platformer 
 genre, with a stellar blend of creative level design, unique and intuitive gameplay elements as 
 well as many familiar gameplay mechanics from the past Mario games.
  
  Returning are the suits, which you will come across several times in the game, as well as other 
 special items that allow you to move Mario around in special ways such as a bubble machine complete 
 with blower. Unfortunately these things feel somewhat tacked on because they are only found in 
 specific Galaxies for obtaining a single star. But still they are fun to use and at times can make 
 the gameplay tricky, navigating Mario over a pit of poison while avoiding spiked objects, and the 
 only method of movement is with an air blower becomes really difficult and can sometimes frustrate 
 you.
  
  Once again you will find yourself guiding Mario through a variety of worlds fighting different 
 bosses, but unlike in the past two games, each boss will require a different method to defeat them, 
 whether it be a mini boss or one of the big bosses from each galaxy. You will come across a variety 
 of characters, including bees, penguines, Toads and other creatures. There are also a variety of 
 enemies to fight, including the return of the helmet head from Super Mario Bros 3 and familiars 
 like Thowmps, Pirana plants and Goomba's
  
  The game spans across 7 different main galaxies and each has several different galaxies within 
 them, some of which are bonuses that require a certain amount of stars to collect. Each individual 
 galaxy is made up of a variety of different kinds of planets of different shapes and sizes. Guiding 
 Mario through some of them can take a lot of patience though, as they require quick wits and strategy. 
 Regardless of age, you will find some elements to be complicated and somewhat frustrating, however 
 it does not take very long to figure them out. There are quite a variety of puzzles crammed into 
 Galaxy and some are rather unique, you will find side galaxies to be unlocked that are exceptionally 
 tricky to navigate.
  
  Many people were concerned that the Wii is an underpowered console for next generation, and while 
 Nintendo was banking on the Wiimote to be successful, any doubts about whether or not the Wii can 
 provide good looking games should be eliminated now. Galaxy is bright, vibrant had has great visual 
 effects such as bloom and shadows. The game has far more textures, it is actually rather impressive 
 when you compare it to last gen games such as Ninja Gaiden, in fact I believe SMG has more. You 
 can see the textures in the Queen bee in the first level, the hair looks realistic to the point 
 where each hair is popping out, or you can clearly see Bowser's scales and his hair looks like 
 strands instead of a giant glob of nothing. No doubt this game looks better on a standard definition 
 television, you will notice loads of jaggies in this game if you play it on an HDTV from a distance.
 
  
  Super Mario Galaxy for me has been one of the most enjoyable games in the franchises 22 year history, 
 not since Super Mario Bros 3 and Super Mario World have I enjoyed a Mario game this much. That 
 is not to say the revolutionary Super Mario 64 was not a good game, but Galaxy has taken so many 
 things like the control scheme and overall quality gameplay and turned it inside out. Nintendo 
 has made the swimming controls better and movement is not as restrictive, plus the use of the Wiimote 
 is great in so many different ways that you will no doubt be impressed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: forgiven3200
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy has the best graphics EVER! I have been playing it for a week and finally beat 
 the final level. Now, I am trying to earn all 120 stars. Super Mario Galaxy is challenging enough 
 not to leave you bored. The way the levels are made and the way things were laid out are amazing! 
 They went all out on this game. I recommend this game for any Mario fan or if you like challenging/thinking 
 games. It is one of the best Wii games out there. I am fascinated by the way the game ends after 
 you defeat Bowser for the last time. It is worth playing over and over again! Enjoy the game!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chocolate1325
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Mario games are games that seem to revlolutionaze the industry more than any other series with 
 titles like Super Mario Bros, Super Mario Kart, Super Mario 64 and now Super Mario Galaxy.
  
  Story
  
  Well it does have a bit more of a story than previous Mario platformers Mario 
 is invited to Peachs castle and before he gets there Bowser makes and appearence and Peachs castle 
 gets lifted into space Mario rushes to save Peach but a Magikoopa attacks and the next time you 
 see Mario is on a small planet and these rabbits promise to take Mario to Princess Rosalina if 
 he manages to catch them. He meets Princess Rosalina and is told what has happened and has to collect 
 power stars to get to Peach. He is given the abilty of a spin attack which is able to deflect some 
 enimies attacks.
  
  Gameplay
  
  You travel to Galaxies and collect power stars by doing certain tasks. You come across star bits 
 which can be fired at enemies with B when you point the remote at the enemy get 50 star bits gives 
 you an extra life. You can have a second player can join in by firing star bits and halting your 
 progress through the game. The level design is top class it is huge and beautiful some levels are 
 in 2D but mostly only for a bit. You collect some star shards in levels which create a star point 
 and when your on that you shake the Wii mote to have it fire you off to the next part of the level. 
 The enemies are mostly from Mario games and there are star orbs where you point the Wii mote to 
 go from one to another to get to another part of the level. You can run upside down on planets 
 and that is so cool because you could sometimes think your falling off a ledge but the gravity 
 will come into play alot of times in this game. The basic attacks are spin attack where you shake 
 the Wii mote to do the attack. there is no punch or kick in this game but you press A and you do 
 a jump and Z is for a ground pound. The triple jump and wall kick are still abilites Mario can 
 do. The power ups are cool there are some that are really cool some that aren't but the fire flower 
 is ace you shake the Wii Mote left or right to fire a Fireball but it doesn't last very long the 
 power up unlike Super Mario World where if you take a hit you lose the FireFlower. A starman makes 
 you invincble and makes Mario go faster. The Bee Suit is another one which Mario can fly and stick 
 to certain areas in the game and you press A to fly and the nuchuck to move but you can not go 
 near water or if an enmey hits you then you have lost the power up. There is alot more power ups 
 as well but these are some of them. You can ride a Manta Ray and that uses the Wii mote to move 
 left or right and a ball in the game and that also uses the Wii mote as well. You feel in control 
 of the character alot in this game it is easy to learn everything in this game.
  
  Sound
  
  Classic Mario tunes some from Mario Bros 3 and Super Mario 64. Mario music has always been 
 good and Bowser doesn't talk in this game which is good because I didn't like him talking in Sunshine.
 
  
  Graphics
  
  This game looks fantastic some of the best. Definetly better than any game on the Wii the level 
 design looks awesome.
  
  
  Lastabilty
  
  This game will be about 20 hours to get about 60 stars might be easy but this game has a 121 stars 
 to complete the whole game and it should take about 40 hours and some can be abit difficult. Even 
 when you have done certain levels like the Manta Ray challenge you can try and set as fast a time 
 as you can if you like that level. You will definetly most likely play through again because it 
 is fun.
  
  Overall opinion
  
  I think this has to be considered as one of the best games around. I think it is the most fun I 
 have had with any game ever I just enjoy it so much. I like it because it has loads of power ups 
 like Super Mario Bros 3 had and awesome level design and gameplay like in Super Mario 64 and it 
 also offers something different and new itself with the gravity playing an important role in this 
 game there is so much to say about this game. If you want to know how good it is you have to play 
 it. The game industry has changed again thanks to Mario and platformers are very good again thanks 
 to this masterpiece. Not as big as impact as Mario 64 but more fun and a better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameGoddess32
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game, and I haven't played much of it, but what I have played is AWESOME!! It takes 
 some getting used to the controls, but once you do (which isn't long) , it is alot of fun. I'm definately 
 going to buy this game. It takes platforming games to a whole new level I think. If you love Mario (or 
 at least like him) , I think you'll love this game. And I've always liked Princess Peach, but I
  think I like the new character Rosalind even better. It takes some getting used to the physics in 
 this game. Mario can go around the whole planetoid he's on without falling off..... it's crazy!! (but 
 cool) I've played Mario games since Super Mario Bros. and I love this one too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluesteel13
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  If you ask me this game is cool round and fantastic, But there is always little issues with the 
 game which is a downer for gamers like me. The story line ia bit old fashioned but dont think that 
 when you start playing it is going to be like sunshine because it is nothing like it, basically 
 all you have to do in this game is to find power stars that will regerate a galactical space ship 
 so then you can go and find princess peach. The graphics for this game is exelent and has got the 
 best views of mario when in gameplay 10/10, The boses are off the hook they have got so much detail 
 in them it is unbelievable10/10, there is also the planets in the galaxy is wicked nearly every 
 planet is most likely round but has not got the same things in them which is very good because 
 it will get boring doing the same things in each planet over and over again. The colour is so bright 
 and colourful you can see if grass is grass 10/10. The sound is very cool too it has diffrent musics 
 for each world which suits the theme 10/10. The best thing about this game is that you can change 
 into different mario types when you get mushrooms like boo mario, skating mario, spring mario ,Fire 
 mario and Bumble bee mario .There is also stars called Star bits lumers (stars) love them you can 
 feed them to lumers and also some stars have secrets with them like a Hungry lumer can transform 
 into a galaxy ,you will find Star bits in every world you go. This game is a must get because if 
 you dont you will regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dman360
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  I've been a die hard Mario fan all my life. Since I was 3 to be exact. I use to want to be just 
 like him. The main joy of my childhood memories revolve around him. So when I heard about Mario 
 Galaxy back from E3 2006, I was ready to blow. Fast forward a year later and I find my self enslaved 
 by the addiction I have with this game.
  
  Super Mario Bros, Super Bros 2, Super Mario Bros 3, Super Mario World, Super Mario 64, Super Mario 
 Sunshine, and now Super Mario Galaxy. These games are what I think of as the main Mario games. 
 Super Mario Bros 2 (American version) being my least favorite, and Super Mario World being my absolute 
 favorite. So, when a game like Galaxy comes along you can't help to wonder, will this live up to 
 it's successors? I personally think it doesn't, but it is better than Mario Sunshine, SMB2 and 
 equally as good as SM64. This game is more of an evolution than a revolution. The innovation and 
 gameplay is near perfect and is sure to have hardcore Nintendo fanboys rejoicing. 
  
  When it comes to graphics, this game is gorgeous. They may not be as good as Xbox 360 or even near 
 close at all. Heck they are nothing at all like Xbox 360 graphic wise. Compared to the 360's graphics, 
 the graphics in this game look like crap, but they are the best graphics on the Wii. Although the 
 game does not get it's good looks for pixels, as much as it does from environmental textures.
 
  
  The absolute best of the game comes from the innovative gameplay. The best part is, it does NOT 
 heavily rely on the Wii's motion censored controls. It actually feels like a Mario game. More so 
 like Mario 64. You will find yourself exploring territories to find stars. Collect 60 stars and 
 you will beat the game easily, but if you're hungry for more challenge, you can go ahead and "attempt" 
 to collect all 120 stars to get the ultimate unlockable feature. You probably already know you 
 will be able to play as Luigi. Back to controls, like I said, the game doesn't rely heavily on 
 Wii mechanics but for that purpose, you have to shake either to Nunchuck or the remote to preform 
 a spin attack. This move is very useful in most situations, even to the point of it being quite 
 tiring. With the Wii-mote you can move the cursor to collect star bits. These star bits will help 
 you along the way in order to unlock new Galaxies. There is a Co-op option that allows the P2 to 
 control a cursor so that you can play the game and the P2 can sit there in envy of you because 
 he/she is stuck with such a boring useless job, with no fundamental values whatsoever. 
  
  In terms of difficulty, it's pretty easy to beat, but if you're aiming for the grand prize. You're 
 going to have to be a little patient and really good. Collecting all 120 stars is quite the difficult 
 task. After I beat the game, I couldn't help to feel that adrenaline rush I got from playing slowly 
 fade away. The games replay value decreases after completing the game, but it's still fun to go 
 back and attempt the rest of the stars.
  
  Like most games, they're bound to be some flaws, first of all the camera is pretty accurate, but 
 there are times where you wish you could control it again. Another problem I faced was with the 
 stages that had you standing upside down on a moving platform while trying to avoid flying balls (for 
 lack of a better name) . I found myself constantly accidentally running off the platform, trying 
 to go one way and realizing I was going the other, while trying to turn around just to realize 
 that I've all ready fallen off and into the mysterious black hole. Black holes are everywhere. 
 I never knew there were so many in space. I wonder what its like to be sucked in one. Oh well. 
 
  
  Many people say the story is awful and boring, but I actually liked it. Aside from the fact that 
 you have to once again save the princess (get use to it, Bowser really likes her, I don't even 
 think she minds anymore) , you have this side story of a chick named Princess Rosetta who raises 
 these stars and does other stuff and whatever. Well, whatever it was, I liked it. The ending is 
 really good too, it's pretty long and somewhat epic.
  
  Mario has been around for over 20 years and he shows no sign of retiring anytime soon. I refuse 
 to believe that he's still a plumber. Last time I checked, Mario hasn't been seen doing any thing 
 plumbing related since Mario Bros, but even then he wasn't really. Actually in Mario and Luigi 
 he does hammer pipes, but you see my point. Anyway, so, if you've been waiting for a Mario game 
 that lives up to being a true sequel to Super Mario 64, then your wait is over. Don't overlook 
 this title and well worth the 50 bucks and free time. I like many others am pleasantly pleased 
 with the results. Keep up the good work Nintendo.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersonic49
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  Back when Nintendo unleashed the Wii during the Gamecube's doom of 2004-2005, instead of calling 
 it the frighteningly disatrous name its called now, they called it a revoulution. And it was. When 
 it was released. It was brilliant in the way that it attracted people otherwise uninterested in 
 video games became addicted to it. It got four times as many sales as the PS3 and was heading to 
 fight with the 360 later on. It was a huge success. But that was back then, and this is now.
  
  Hard-core gamers got tired of the Wii, and you would see many people blogging about "how they 
 have almost given up the Wii". You would click on their blog, and they would state the Wii games 
 they wanted for Christmas. They were very, very few. It really boiled down that the only Wii games 
 to get excited for were Super Smash Bros. Brawl, No More Heroes, Mario Kart Wii, and Super Mario 
 Galaxy.
  
  Well, let me just tell doubters of the Wii worldwide that even if those games don't make it and 
 for some reason disappoint us (though I highly doubt that will happen) , Super Mario Galaxy will 
 still be good enough to make the Wii worth the $250 price tag alone. It is diffucult to begin with 
 the quality of this game.
  
  I'll start with the Wii controls. What makes the controls perfectly balanced is that, like Metroid 
 Prime 3 and Twilight Princess, they capture the unique control scheme of the Wii while simultaneously 
 feeling nearly perfect to hard-core gamers. The only way they could mess up with you on the entire 
 game, is if they get low on battery while you're playing, like they did with me. Yet whats amazing 
 is that even when my Wii remote's battery was low, the controls were still incredibly responsive.
 
  
  And then there is the level designs. They are about as innovative as innovative will ever get. 
 The fact alone that came up with the idea of walking all over tiny planets each with there own 
 gravity rules is incredible on its own, but the way they're executed in the game feels like something 
 that is literally out of this world.
  
  The story sets up with Peach being kidnapped (with her entire castle!) and that koopa guy blasting 
 Mario into outer space. After a series of strange events, he meets Rosalina, a mysterious woman 
 with a large spaceship. 
  
  Apparently, that spaceship has "observatory rooms", or something like that, each with there own 
 galaxy. And there are at least about three to seven or so galaxies inside THOSE galaxies which 
 you must visit in order to find the power stars which eventually leads you to a galaxy with a Grand 
 Star to collect after you beat a massive boss.
  
  After getting each grand star, you will unlock a new observatory room, etc, etc, etc. Each of the 
 galaxies have their own unique setting and environments, which are even more brilliant than you 
 might expect.
  
  There are also special suits that Mario can receive at certain galaxies. Each of them control uniquely 
 and suit the galaxies cleverly. Most of them control almost perfectly, but one of them, the "Flying 
 Suit", is very frustrating to control when you are on a round planet such as the area where you 
 first discover it. Thankfully all of the other suits work almsot perfectly with the game.
  
  What helps make the gameplay of Super Mario Galaxy so brilliant is how all of these pieces 
 of gameplay I just mentioned in the past three or four paragraphs come together to form this one, 
 amazing game. It is nearly impossible to describe how well this game works with the beautiful setting 
 it has.
  
  Speaking of beautiful, that is another word that best describes Mario Galaxy. The graphics look 
 about as good as the Playstation3's Ratchet and Clank Future game. Think about that for a moment. 
 A great looking PS3 game looking about as good as a first-party Wii game. If that doesn't tell 
 you that the visuals in Super Mario Galaxy are tremendous, I doubt anything else could.
  
  And Super Mario Galaxy sounds as good as it plays. The sound effects are impressive as you'd expect, 
 but the real kicker is the background music that just feels right for the galaxy it is placed with. 
 For example, once you defeat a boss, just before you get the Power and/or Grand star, some cool 
 spacey music will play that fits absouletly perfectly with the setting of what you just went through. 
 Even if you only hear the music only for about five seconds before you grab that star, it sucks 
 you into the game in stunning detail. Aside from that, the first galaxies you go through in the 
 game such as "The Good Egg Galaxy" have background music that fits perfectly with the fact that 
 this is one of your first galaxies in the game, making the game technically stunning in all categories.
 
  
  Super Mario Galaxy also has a superbly balanced diffuculty. For kids, the diffuculty is set so 
 that you can beat the game somewhat easily. But once you do beat the game and have about 60 or 
 so stars, hard-core Mario fans will still have another 60 to find and collect through levels that 
 children don't have to get to still brag to their friends that they still beat the game.
  
  It still shouldn't take you too long to beat Super Mario Galaxy, as it took me slightly less than 
 a dozen hours, but if your goal is to achieve all 120 stars and unlock the special feature you 
 get once you do find all 120, it should take you at least twice as long.
  
  Overall, Super Mario Galaxy is a revoulutionary game in every aspect. Not only is it worth the 
 $50 dollar price tag it has, Super Mario Galaxy alone makes the Wii worth the $250 price tag it 
 has on store shelves and online shopping websites worldwide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerver1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  When Super Mario Bros. started a new generation of video games in 1985, it was revolutionary. Super 
 Mario 64 started another new generation in 1996 being the first influential 3D game. Even though 
 Super Mario Galaxy does not establish a new generation for gaming, it is still a special experience 
 from the beginning to the end with Nintendo at its best with level design, gameplay, and fun. Nintendo 
 takes advantage of gravity and spherical worlds on a level design perspective into a whole new 
 level that any game has never done or pushed this concept. Despite some camera issues and a minimal 
 story, which is typical of a Mario game, this is the best Wii game this year and arguably the best 
 game throughout its lifespan.
  
  Galaxy starts like any other Mario game when Princess Peach gets kidnapped again by Bowser during 
 an airship invasion on the Mushroom Kingdom during some comet festival. Bowser's intention is to 
 make his own galaxy and using Peach's castle as the primary base for it. Mario obviously comes 
 to the save, but comes short being blasted by a Magikoopa falling into some planet where a Luma 
 wakes him up. He meets Princess Rosalina, who is the leader for the Comet Observatory and the Lumas, 
 and she believes that Bowser also messed with them. It is up to Mario to get Power Stars to get 
 the observatory moving and save Peach again from Bowser. This is basically another take in the 
 minimal Mario storyline, but Mario games are not about the story and more about the amazing gameplay.
 
  
  Super Mario Galaxy's gameplay and level design is truly out of this world and blows your mind at 
 certain moments. Mario gets his traditional controls with moving and jumping, but Galaxy's new 
 controls take them a step further. The most significant attack that Mario has at his disposal is 
 a spin attack, where you shake the Wiimote to make Mario spin to take out enemies, stun them, or 
 make a jump a little more longer. The other Wii-focused control in this Mario game involves Star 
 Bits, which are the Luma's favorite food, and you can use them to stun enemies by firing them with 
 the B button. Another significant thing with Star Bits is u can just get Star Bits by pointing 
 the screen, which is very beneficial towards collecting them. There are certain moments in the 
 game where you use the Wiimote for different reasons. Some levels contain a rolling ball where 
 Mario stands on top of rolling around by holding the Wiimote vertically. Then there's the stingray 
 levels where you just use only the Wiimote for movement. Another unique control option only for 
 certain levels is when Mario is in a bubble and you have to blow on it using the Wiimote for movement. 
 These gimmick controls are not as executed well as the traditional controls, but luckily those 
 gimmick controls are used for only a handful of galaxies.
  
  The game maintains a similar structure to Super Mario 64 where you collect Power Stars to unlock 
 more galaxies in the six domes and Grand Stars from the Bowser galaxies. The core galaxies contain 
 at least six stars (three main and three hidden) and the other galaxies contain one or two stars. 
 Different types of comets appear randomly in these galaxies that offer a different twist with the 
 main star missions, such as speed running a certain level, beating bosses with only one health, 
 racing with Cosmic Mario (pretty similar to Shadow Mario from Sunshine) , and getting a star when 
 the enemies go faster than normal. Hungry Lumas pop up after getting a certain number of stars 
 in a certain dome requiring Star Bits to access them. Then there's different colored stars to unlock 
 other galaxies that are specifically a challenge. This might feel somewhat deja-vu for veterans 
 of the Mario games, but the galaxies themselves is enough differentiation from the levels in Mario 
 64 and Sunshine.
  
  The galaxies are probably the best part of the game gameplay-wise. Navigating planet by planet 
 using launch and sling stars are the best fun you would ever have in a Wii game. Most of the core 
 galaxies have different themes similar to Mario 64, so the variety is there. Of the 15 core galaxies, 
 expect to see at least two water galaxies, two lava galaxies (one of them is both a ice and lava 
 galaxy) , and three galaxies. Other galaxies are indeed different themes like the wind one, one 
 in the desert, a Boo-themed galaxy, and a personal favorite, Toy Time Galaxy. There are also lots 
 of bosses in this game despite repeats throughout the game, but they are still fun. Nintendo has 
 pushed the gravity concept in these galaxies into a whole new level when you have Mario running 
 upside down, leftward, and rightward. Galaxy is truly amazing when these gameplay concepts along 
 with the Mario-like fun veterans know and love are combined.
  
  The difficulty in Super Mario Galaxy is mostly on the easy side, but it does get hard progressively, 
 which is a good thing. It is mostly on the easy side regarding you get extra lives easily, so dying 
 is not a huge punishment if you have lots of lives unless you are that close towards getting the 
 star and you have to start over from the beginning of the level. There is also a checkpoint system 
 of sorts in most galaxies going for stars. In addition, Life Mushrooms, which doubles your health, 
 does make the game a little easier in certain moments. When Galaxy gets a little hard, part of 
 the blame is the camera even though it mostly works. The camera in this game is mostly automatic, 
 but you use the d-pad on the Wiimote to change camera angle and enter first-person camera to look 
 around. In some cases, however, when adjusting the camera angle feels like a necessity, it will 
 not let you do so which can lead into frustration and losing lives. Then again, the camera in most 
 games today are not that perfect, but if Galaxy had the perfect camera, then my score would have 
 been higher.
  
  Another highlight in Super Mario Galaxy is the power-ups. This is one of many reasons why Galaxy 
 feels like the Super Mario Bros. 3 for 3D Mario games. Most of these power-ups are temporary, but 
 located at the right time when navigating the next area in a level. The Bee Suit is the first power-up 
 you encounter in the game and probably the least exciting of all of them in the game. Like a bee, 
 you have temporary flying and you lose it when you touch water or get hit. Boo Mario is basically 
 a Boo with Mario's cap and it has similar abilities to the Vanish Cap in Mario 64, but the suit 
 gets lost when it goes on light. The power-ups that are temporary are the best power-ups with Ice 
 and Fire Mario. Ice Mario lets Mario run on water and wall jump on waterfalls, which is awesome. 
 Fire Mario is a nod to the old-school despite being limited and you shake the Wiimote to use fireballs. 
 Other offensive abilities are using shells as weapons and going faster underwater (the air meter 
 is there when underwater and you have to use bubbles or get back to the top to regain air) , and 
 there is the Rainbow Star which allows Mario to go invincible like the old-school days. The power-ups 
 are more used for navigation than offense, but that is a minor complaint.
  
  The graphics in Super Mario Galaxy are among the best the Wii has to offer. Sure, it is not 360 
 or PS3 graphics, but Galaxy can hold its own even to some launch 360 or PS3 games. The galaxies 
 having lots of variety also means lots of graphic variety. The diverse environments look great 
 far away, but look not as great when in close specifically going to first-person to look around. 
 Since I played this on a HDTV without Wii component cables, the game still looks good, but it does 
 look better with component cables from what I seen elsewhere.
  
  The music is the best part of Galaxy personally other than the gameplay and the galaxies. This 
 is the best soundtrack for a Wii game I heard and arguably the best soundtrack for a Mario game 
 to a point that Nintendo should of released the music in a CD because it is that good. The music 
 is a mix of orchestral tunes which are amazing to remixed tunes of past Mario games. The nostalgia 
 really kicks in music-wise for the Bowser levels and the airship levels where remixes of the Bowser 
 music for Mario 64 and the airship music for Mario 3 just makes it awesome. It also kicks in other 
 levels like the Sweet Sweet Galaxy and Toy Time Galaxy. The orchestral music especially in the 
 Good Egg, Battlerock, and Gusty Garden Galaxies are among the best musical pieces in any game this 
 year. The sound effects are also good when collecting Star Bits and coins. There is minimal voice 
 acting in this game as well, but along with the minimal story, it would not hamper the overall 
 experience.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is truly a special game especially with the overcrowding of first-person shooters 
 and the absence of true platformers till now. Even though you can breeze through the game in less 
 than 10 hours, it will take you at least 15 hours to get all 120 stars in the game or longer if 
 you are willing to play it with a different twist. Despite the core Nintendo design staying the 
 same in this Mario game, it is still very fun and refreshing especially with gravity and spherical 
 worlds. The execution of how Nintendo tackled this concept for Galaxy should make other Nintendo 
 franchises consider taking advantage of different ideas and executing them as well as it was done 
 in Galaxy. It caters to both the casual audience with the simple controls and the co-star mode, 
 when a extra player joins in with only the Wiimote as another pointer, and the hardcore audience 
 with all the references from previous Mario games along with maintaining the fun the series had 
 since 1985. This is the best Wii game to get this holiday season and a good contender for overall 
 game of the year or even game of this decade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLuFAlc0n
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2009 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is the game that Wii owners should get, while twilight princess and metroid 
 being the best games for the wii, this game fills the trilogy of the ultimate games for the Wii, 
 i've played A-LOT OF Mario games but not all of them, SM64 is okay, sunshine is decent, both of 
 those games are good but not legendary like Super Mario Galaxy. This game is nothing compared to 
 64 and sunshine cause this game is Miles better than both 64 and sunshine! Galaxy sets of as a 
 game that you start in a festival until bowser attack the casthe and torn it off from the ground 
 (not gonna spoil it)
  It has immense graphics, very decent gameplay and awesome sonds, it has a very high value, it's 
 worth playing and i can guarrandamn teed this is the best game for the wii (and twilight princess) , 
 this game is one of those must own, legendary game and this is better than any of the 360 and ps3 
 games, this is also one of those game that you can't judge until you experience it games. it's 
 awesome, flawless, a work of genius... THAT'S RIGHT, GENIUS!!! it has aawesome backgrounds and 
 sounds! when I say genius, it's how you play this game, it's a game that tottaly change a Normal 
 Mario game to a Legendary Super Mario game, everything just works right when you play the game 
 and overall, it's legendary!!!
  
  
  Goods/+
  
  Holds the best GRAPHICS for the Wii, it's just awesome, It has ps3 graphics
  Sound is still legendary
 
  Gameplay works really well and awesome
  Lots of genius at every corner
  Fun to play
  Better than halo 3
  Lots of gameplay fun w/ lots of collectives
  Very stylish game
  overally 
 perfect
  Lots of power - ups
  It has 2-player in it
  
  Bad/ -
  
  It's kind of hard sometimes
  
  Gameplay/ Innovation - 10/10
  Graphics - 10/10
  Sounds - 
 10/10
  Value - 9/10
  Presentation - 10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hagensby
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome. The graphic is far the best for any Wii game yet. The sound is excellent 
 and I love the old retro melodies that pop up now and again. The game play is new and exciting 
 and highly addictive. This new Mario universe really does turn everything upside down and it does 
 really well of mixing the old Mario universe with a new and exciting one. The wii controls works 
 really well and the design of the game makes the controls feel unbelievably natural in your hands. 
 This is a must.....! Both for old Mario lovers and newbies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whellock
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 29, 2008 4:36 am PT
Review:  At last we finally have a Perfect Mario game for the Wii, despite the other ones like Mario Strikers 
 Charged Football, Mario Party 8 and Super Paper Mario which some gamers like it, this one is a 
 masterpiece. I've been waiting for this game since it was first announced at E3 last year when 
 Nintendo revealed the Wii. In the first clips of gameplay, I was amazed with the graphics and the 
 very nice smooth framerate in it like they didn't do in Super Mario Sunshine for the Gamecube. 
 This game was shown off twice at E3 and Leipzig once and the more new levels I saw I really started 
 to think that this is going to be the best Wii game of 2007 and now it is.
  
  When I started to play it I was very thrilled with the gameplay and the control is so excellent 
 that you couldn't stop playing it. The moves that Mario does are definitly the same in Super Mario 
 64 but in this one there is a new move he can do and thats a spinning attack just by shaking the 
 Wii remote. To make him blast off on a jump star or launch star, just simply shake the remote when 
 Mario is in the centre of the star and when I did that, that was my favorite bit in the game.
 
  
  When you collect the Star bits, you can either run up to collect them or you can point at them 
 so they can come straight towards you. When you collect 50 Star bits you get an extra life, the 
 more 50 Star bits you collect the more lives you get. Also the Star bits are your currency so if 
 you see a hungry Luma around, he will ask you to feed him the amount of Star bits he wants so he 
 can unlock a hidden place for you. You can also fire Star bits at enemies so they will be stunned 
 so you can eliminate them in time.
  
  Another feature is the Mushrooms in the game and they come in a set of different colours:
  
 
  Green Mushroom- Extra Life
  
  Red/White Star Mushroom- Extra energy bar
  
  Black/Yellow Mushroom- Bee Mario
  
  Metal Mushroom- Spring Mario
  
  White Mushroom- Boo 
 Mario
  
  The invincibility star makes a return so when you get that, Mario will be invincible for a limited 
 time and he will be Rainbow Mario.
  
  There are 2 Flowers in the game that come in a set of colours:
  
  Yellow/ Orange Flower- Flower 
 Power Mario
  
  Blue/White Flower- Ice Mario
  
  Overall for anyone who has a Wii, this game is for you and if you want to play the game for 2 players 
 there is the 2 player Co. p mode. One person playing as Mario and the other with the second pointer 
 with the Remote if you want to make the game easier for you.
  
  I think Nintendo had done a brilliant job making this game, the music score is orchestrated brilliantly 
 and I think everybody should have a copy if it now.
  
  Buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilinla
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 1:35 am PT
Review:  However much I love this game, it is not perfect. The camera can be a pain at times. It is not 
 true that it is perfect as some have said. It isn't. It's good, but it does get in the way. Aside 
 from that, there's a whole lot to love about Galaxy.
  
  Gameplay (9) : Controling Mario is really intuitive, nearing perfection. It is just that the camera 
 sometimes gets in the way, as I mentioned above. The game plays brilliantly though, and is simply 
 too much fun.
  
  Graphics (10) : The game looks very, very nice. Mario has nothing to envy from other "next gen" 
 games. Really, he looks perfect on Wii and I wouldn't have it any other way. The outer space stages 
 look especially awesome.
  
  Sound (10) : This music is seriously awesome. My new favorite is the new song when battling bowser. 
 But still, every song is memorable, and they fit the game perfectly. Remixed songs are very well 
 done. 
  
  Overall (9.8) : This game is the best Mario game I've ever played, whether 2D, 3D, RPG, Paper, Party, 
 Kart, or whatever other spinoffs there are. Game of the year for me, and quite possible best game 
 I have ever played. Camera means nothing when it comes down to the fun you have playing this game. 
 It's the little things that count in this game, and you'll notice all the care that went into it. 
 But at the end of the day, this is the most fun there is to be had in a videogame, period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karmaxdust
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 18, 2007 12:36 am PT
Review:  I have not yet beaten this game yet, so this review is based on what I have played up to so far. 
 Yes it's true the game is a little bit on the easy side, but most of the Mario games are. I don't 
 believe Mario games are about level of difficulty, it is more about having fun while playing. I'm 
 not even halfway through the game yet, I have spent about 10 hours on the game and so far I am 
 having a blast. The planets and galaxies are very uniquely designed. Graphics are very nice and 
 sound is great as well. You will hear some of your old favorite Mario music. Overall I rate this 
 game a 9.6, IMO it is better than Twilight Princess and is currently the best game out on the Wii. 
 
  
  Super Paper Mario was fun, but SMG tops it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:45 pm PT
Review:  After all these years, Nintendo has managed to make a simple plumber into this huge thing. And 
 every so many years when a Mario game does release, it never seems to dissapoint. This one is no 
 different. In fact, I believe it is one of the best Mario games ever created. 
  
  So far, this is the most fun I've had with a Mario game since Mario 64. I haven't been addicted 
 like this for awile, but due to the tasty graphics, unbelieveably fun gameplay and completely innovative 
 controls I have became an addict. The game controls so damn good, that you tend to forget why you 
 ever liked to play Mario with a regular controller to begin with. Simply put; controlling Mario 
 in this game is simply amazing alone. The graphics themselves are gorgeous, the best i've seen 
 on the Wii thus far (yes, even better than Metroid Prime 3) . The colors are vibrant, and the world, 
 er, galaxy, is just beautiful. Now, the gameplay, is what reeks of genious. The way the game plays 
 out is amazing, and completely different; one that pits Mario in levels where he will be bouncing 
 from one small planet to another in order to reach the star. The way the gravity works into the 
 gameplay is what makes it. In others, you will fall off the edge or whatnot, but in here, that 
 is not fully possible in some instances. Due to the gravity you can run around a sphere without 
 ever falling off even though you are completely upside down. As with the old games, you will be 
 acquiring suits that transform you into things such as the classic Fire Mario, the new Bee Mario, 
 and the new Boo Mario. Each of which has there own unique abilities that help you within that certain 
 level. And the music is extremely well done. They mix new music alongside of the classics which 
 turns out to be the best soundtrack on any Mario game thus far. Its a whole new Mario, with a whole 
 new way to play. Nintendo finally justified my Wii purchase, and I will honestly tell you that 
 this is a Mario game like no other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcaleerpx01
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Graphics - 10/10. The graphics on this game are bright and colorful. They are also some of the 
 best that I've seen so far on the Wii.
  
  Music - 9/10. The sound is really catchy and fun, but it got really repetitive if you kept dying 
 and had to hear it again. Also the addition of some remixed music from earlier Mario games makes 
 it even better.
  
  Camera - 7/10. The camera is pretty good because it stays on top of Mario, but if you try to move 
 the camera around it will usually not let you which can get really annoying.
  
  Controls - 9/10. The controls work really well but it can take some getting used to. I found that 
 the jumping took a while to get used to because if you want to move while jumping you need to run 
 first. I thought that the sensor controls were perfect, and they worked really well.
  
  Gameplay - 10/10. The gameplay is perfect, it was easy to get into and the difficulty was not too 
 hard (until later in the game) . The levels look beautiful and they are really fun. The addition 
 of different gravity levels is really cool.
  
  Overall - If you own a Wii, like platformers, and like to have fun you should definitely buy this 
 game (or rent it if you don't have the money) because it's so much much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariofan22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Even if you aren't a Nintendo fan, there's one thing you have to admit: they bring out quality 
 titles, year after year. Galaxy lives up to the Mario name, and delivers yet another stunning adventure 
 in the series - and when I say stunning, it's pretty amazing.
  
  The thing about Mario games, is that when you play them, you can't understand why you love them. 
 Galaxy is no exception - a large part of me wanted Galaxy to be a total flop, an awful game, that 
 I could vent against here on Gamespot. But of course, Nintendo disappointed me. As you run up and 
 around planets and platforms in the middle of space, you stare in awe at the breathtaking graphics, 
 you laugh as you stomp and kill a Goomba - you even feel yourself saying, "Just one more star!" 
 when you know it's time to quit.
  
  This is how Mario should be.
  
  The level design is some of the best ever seen in Platformers. Whether it be a giant cake and ray 
 surfing, to a galaxy of debris and a "water in a bowl" level, Galaxy delivers some of the most 
 original designs ever seen in Mario games. And that says alot. Where Sunshine failed was the limitations 
 placed on the game by the setting - everything had to match a certain criteria. But Galaxy is able 
 to deliver because every level is a different "galaxy", a different setting - you can see how the 
 developers just went wild.
  
  But of all the greatness of Super Mario Galaxy, there's one thing that really stood out to me - 
 without question. The music was fantastic. It's fully orchestrated, and it mixes the old with the 
 new - and it sticks with you after playing through the game... part of me wishes that they'd release 
 it on a soundtrack... it's that good.
  
  Of course, no great game is without fault - hence, why I didn't give this game a perfect score. 
 I had three main problems: the camera, the story and the controls - the latter in very rare cases. 
 The camera is automatic - you have almost no control over it. And thanks to that, now and then 
 in more normal levels you find that the camera gets stuck behind a cliff, or it's facing the wrong 
 way. This is no where near the magnitude of Super Mario Sunshine's camera fiasco, so this shouldn't 
 stop you from getting the game at all.
  
  The story is pathetic. Peach is attacked again by Bowser (what's new?) . Mario is thrown into space 
 my Bowser's minions. Rosalina, the mysterious keeper of the "Lumas" (I won't spoil it) pretty much 
 owns the hub, and helps Mario with his quest. She has a boring back story - it's optional to listen 
 to it, and I'd recommend skipping it. At least you can. But, I will admit -- the opening scenes 
 look pretty awesome.
  
  Also, I felt the game did a pretty awful job of explaining to you how your controls get changed 
 around when you go, say, upside down on a platform in space. But once you get used to it... well, 
 to put it mildly, it's awesome. It opens up so many new directions, that it's mind-boggling. A 
 side note to those who get sick from video games: this one isn't for you.
  
  To sum it up: Galaxy is an amazing game, and if you own a Wii... there's no reason you shouldn't 
 have it. This is the one game you should buy, the one game you should pay for. Have fun with it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: link631
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:51 pm PT
Review:  more resembling to mario 64 than sunshine but those were great too
  mario galaxy is just awesome a new kind of platform game, a new mario
  the concept of walking 
 upside down and on the walls is fun but its weird when you start but you get used too it :D
  the bowser battles are challenging there like the n64 ones the ones that had t be in sunshine because 
 you only fight bowser once at the end thats was very disappointing 
  
  however i don't really like the music
  I only like the old school music in the special galaxies
 
  the camera is ok but bad sometimes 
  
  its a good game challenging and fun 
  
  greatest wii game of the year
  can wait for bawl 
  
  have fun :p 
  
  LINK631 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooladden
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  
  Lets get this straight , Super Mario Galaxy is the amazing sequal that sunshine should of been 
 to Super Mario 64.
  
  
  Visuals - The game visuals are astonishing in this game , easily hands down the best looking wii 
 game to date and proboly ever to come . All the textures are amazingly detailed and the lighting 
 is phenomenal. This game is so beautiful it should be compared to an first generation xbox 360 
 game and thats hard to say since i own a 360 and wii. The level design is also stargering to such 
 amount that i cant believe that a group of human beings created this game. All the levels have 
 that space-theme to it and each little planet/galaxy look so smooth, colourful, cute and absoluty 
 anstonshing. This game is a must to play on a big screen even if you dont have HD cables , it looks 
 that good! 10/10
  
  
  Sound design - Super Mario Galaxy's sound is also unbelievable that every sound is so crisp and 
 clear . All the sounds from Super Mario 64 are back and re-orchestrated and sound even better. 
 Now when you ground pound on the goomba you will actualy hear all the splatering of the goomba 
 pressed against the ground in such clear crisp quality . The sound design is absoulty amazing in 
 Super Mario Galaxy and shouldn't be played with the volume on mute! 10/10
  
  
  Gameplay - The same old loving gameplay from Super Mario 64 is back and is kicking butt better 
 that ever . The same old controls are back plus new wii controls such as picking up the in-game 
 currency called starbits . You use the wii mote and aim it at the screen to pick up the starbits 
 and you use these bits to purchase items and get to new galaxy's and such. They also added a new 
 move which involves you shaking the wii mote to perfome a spin attack. This works flawlessly and 
 its a great add-on.
  The story for this game is simmilar to other mario games . When I mean simmilar I mean preaty much 
 the same except for slight differences. Mario is invited to the castle to meat Peach then Bowser 
 lifts the caste from the ground with Peach inside it and you hanging on with his spaceship. Eventually 
 you fall off and land on a space station. Her you find this woman ( forget her name ) and she can 
 help you get to Peach but her station needs to be feuld by Grand Stars . Boswer has these stars 
 and you must go after him but you cant get to him so you can only go to galaxy's near by and get 
 more feul to get closer to Bowser. This gameplay is rely fun as you collect stars , coins , starbits 
 and explore 40 galaxy's in total . The only one problem I have with this game is that the controls 
 when the gravity go crazy are hard to understand. Luckly they fixed the camera in this game to 
 compared to Super Mario 64. 9.8/10
  
  
  In conclusion this game is a must have for any mario fan or if you just have a wii. This game is 
 so good its worth buying a wii just for it. This game is phenomenal on so many levels and easly 
 should be game of the year compared to halo 3 and crysis. Dont make a huge mistake and skip this 
 game its 50$ ( cheaper then most ) and go out and buy it ! Overall - 9.9/10 ( round it to 10/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeldaMaster32
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Every hundred years, a huge comet flies by in the skies above the Mushroom Kingdom. One year, that 
 comet filled the entire sky, and from it fell a stream of shooting stars. The Toads scooped up 
 the Star Bits and brought them to the castle, where they were reborn as a great Power Star. It 
 was a happy time in the Mushroom Kingdom. Then one night Mario received a letter... "Dear Mario, 
 I'll be waiting for you at the castle on the night of the Star Festival. There's something I'd 
 like to give you. From Peach." With invitation in hand, Mario headed off to the castle just as 
 the Star Festival was getting into full swing. Surrounded by Toads gleefully trying to catch falling 
 Star Bits, Mario was looking forward to the night's festivities. But then, something happened... 
 And Mario's latest adventure began.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy takes every idea or concept you have about a platformer, smashes them to pieces, 
 puts them back together, and presents to you an entirely new formula to not only a Mario game but 
 the genre as a whole. Coupled with the epic setting of outer space and numerous upon numerous galaxies 
 for you to explore and salivate over, Super Mario Galaxy does what few other games in the genre 
 have accomplished: perfection.
  
  To fully grasp the magnitude of Super Mario Galaxy's perfection, one must look at the core concept 
 of the premise presented in the game: gravity. You'll soon notice the difference in Mario's speed, 
 jumping, and overall maneuverability once you set foot on your first planetoid and begin to experiment 
 the boundaries of Mario's movements with the Wii controller. The game hits you with a brick and 
 at first you feel like you are controlling a tank and/or feeling nauseous from the inertia and 
 constantly changing angle of the automatic camera. After gathering yourself, you feel like a moron 
 and realize that Mario moves with finesse, elegance, and grace. It's truly amazing to find yourself 
 wasting time in particular galaxies by just playing around with gravity and seeing what you accomplish 
 and fulfill in the process. It's just one of those many moments in Super Mario Galaxy where you 
 realize you are playing a present day masterpiece.
  
  Also new to the title is the motion control abilities granted to the Wii remote. Your most basic 
 and pivotal motion gesture is a simple spin attack that completes just about everything the game 
 throws at you, the least of which includes sending Mario into orbit with Launch Stars, rebounding 
 projectiles at your foes, flipping switches, adding distance to your jump, etc. Only the tip of 
 the iceberg, motion gestures come into play when you are granted power ups. As a sort of homage 
 to Super Mario Bros. 3, Mario can don multiple suits that take advantage of the Wii remote's motion 
 sensing capability. In an attempt to not spoil all of the various suits to you, I will only name 
 one in particular for the sake of this review. The Fire Flower has returned to the Mario platformer 
 for the first time in 3D and once granted the abilities of Fire Mario, you can launch fireballs 
 at your foes with a simple flick of the Wii remote. It doesn't get in the way of actual gameplay, 
 feels totally satisfying, and serves as an extension of your hand to Mario's. 
  
  Having already mentioned the use of suits, I'll go into small detail about the other elements of 
 gameplay. Your primary objective is to collect Powers Stars in an effort to save Princess Peach 
 and thwart Bowser's evil plot once again, and in the vain of other Mario games, there are a grand 
 total of 120 stars to collect and call your own. New to the formula is the presence of an on screen 
 cursor in the same vain as that of the fairy cursor seen in the Wii version of The Legend of Zelda: 
 Twilight Princess. In Mario, the cursor is shaped as a blue star and grants you a genre breaking 
 skill: collecting important items from a distance. You'll use the cursor to pick up the many Star 
 Bits lying lazily around the galaxy, beckoning you to collect them all. And you should so rightfully 
 attempt to do so in order to feed the many hungry Lumas placed around the game. Feeding them the 
 correct amount of star bits makes them transform into Launch Stars and creating new, exciting galaxies 
 for you to explore. There are other uses of the cursor used for actual gameplay instead of collecting, 
 such as Sling Pods and Pull Stars, but I'll grant you the liberty of discovering those for yourself.
 
  
  Super Mario Galaxy also exudes high production values and a superb presentation. In an attempt 
 to cover all my bases, I'll begin with the visual elements of the game. To start off, I'll be blunt 
 and straightforward: This game is gorgeous. The art direction used in Super Mario Galaxy not only 
 makes it the best looking Wii game on the platform but it also stacks up high to the prowess of 
 the competing systems Xbox 360 and Playstation 3. I swear upon my personal honor that I am not 
 exaggerating this statement and you'll believe me when you see it. The small touches, most notably 
 the use of motion blur when the camera pans to a new angle, contribute to the beauty that has been 
 crafted in Super Mario Galaxy. Not only that, been a number of visual gags paying homage to previous 
 Mario games are present and deployed in full force, such as Goombas wearing Pumpkins over themselves 
 (a reference to the end of Super Mario World) . The final visual touch and definitely the coolest 
 aspect of Super Mario Galaxy's presentation is the animation of the Launch Stars. Throughout the 
 game, your jaw will constantly be hitting the floor as you watch these. The mastery of velocity, 
 cinematography, and art direction commanded by the developers show just how talented and experienced 
 Nintendo truly is, and further proves and exemplifies the magic and bliss they still withhold dear 
 in their design philosophy. 
  
  The final aspect of Super Mario Galaxy I want to touch upon is the music present in the tile. Simply 
 put, this is easily the grandest and pleasant sounding Mario track ever composed in the series 
 twenty five year history. The original score by Koji Kondo matches the epic scale and sheer diversity 
 of the galaxies present in the title. Your inner child will also grin with glee when you hear updated 
 and remixed music of Mario titles yore, creating the ever sweet indulgence of nostalgia and invigorating 
 the memories of the first time you manipulated Mario in his previous endeavors.
  
  In closing, what is there to say about Super Mario Galaxy I haven't said to death about in this 
 analysis? I won't simply repeat what I've already communicated to you. Rather, I'll end on the 
 following note. Super Mario Galaxy does for Mario what should have been done many years ago and 
 performed in the then second party tile, Banjo-Kazooie. Super Mario Galaxy takes the essence of 
 what makes a platformer great, innovates all of those concepts, and does the most important item 
 of all: sets Mario's adventure on an epic scale. Truly, this is the greatest Mario title crafted 
 to date.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaq1992
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Mario Galaxy looks so cool i haven't received the game yet but i am promise to get one for Christmas. 
 This game is going to be the first item on my wii list this holiday. I love every Mario games that 
 come out, Mario galaxy bring you extreme graphics and multitude of exciting adventures and a 2 
 player mode. Mario galaxy is one of the best wii comes out so far this year if you ask me, this 
 game has everything a wii owner wants in a game today. This is going to be a short review from 
 me because i haven't gotten the game yet but when i do i promise i will review a second time to 
 see how the game is actually played. But if i had to rate it now from videos and reviews from other 
 game spot viewers i would have to give it a perfect 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Havraha
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Mario's latest sprawling adventure isn't the ground breaker that was Super Mario 64, but when you 
 think about it that may not be possible. But what it is, however, is the amazing successor to it 
 ... at times harking back to previous games, and at other times taking Mario where he's never been 
 before. It's not exactly perfect, but it comes just close enough to tickle that giddy nerve.
  
  Super Mario 64 was the launch title and flagship game for the Nintendo 64 when it debuted, 
 and it truly was ground breaking. The game set the precedent on how to make a platformer in three 
 dimensions, by which it was followed by Rare efforts Banjo-Kazooi, Jet Force Gemini, and Donkey 
 Kong 64 ... with even Playstation titles like Tomb Raider following suit. The Gamecube mysteriously 
 lacked a Mario adventure at launch, and when Super Mario Sunshine finally hit the shelves, people 
 were turned off by the setting, character designs, and the game's new gimmick (a water-squirting 
 device called FLUDD) . When the "Revolution" was announced, rumors abound of Nintendo's Gamecube 
 tech demo "Mario 128" being the debut title for the console (happily, that didn't come to fruition) . 
 Curiously again, a Mario title was missing from the Wii's launch. Finally, however, Super Mario 
 Galaxy has arrived ... and this time, a Mario game finally feels worthy of following up Super Mario 
 64.
  
  Story wise ... Galaxy starts out much like any other Mario game (and more closely like Mario 64) . 
 Mario receives a letter from Peach, this time simply offering him "something" as opposed to cake. 
 But as Mario enters the town during the evening of the Star Festival, the town is bombarded by 
 Bowser's airships as he proceeds to abduct the entire castle with Peach inside. Mario just makes 
 it to the castle in time as it exits the atmosphere, only to big knocked off into space by a magikoopa. 
 He awakes on a small planetoid surrounded by space rabbits, who turn out to be star people called 
 Lumas. The Lumas bring him back to "mama", a woman named Rosalina, who explains that their home, 
 "The Observatory", had its source of power stolen by Bowser. If Mario can return the great stars 
 to the Observatory, then the star drive can be engaged and they can persue Bowser into the center 
 of the universe. Hence, Mario blasts off to different galaxies on his quest to return power to 
 Rosalina's Observatory.
  
  You'll probably hear various complaints about a kind of "side story" about Rosalina's past which 
 is a "downer", and hurts the game according to some reviewers. I disagree. One of the faults in 
 this game is how Galaxy seems to lack the story telling elements of Sunshine before it -- any little 
 bit of story helps, and without Rosalina's backstory the game feels rather contrived, with elements 
 added in just because they seem neat with no real purpose to them. The game's quality would have 
 been dragged down if you were simply floating on some platform in space with star people and a 
 Peach look-a-like for no particular reason. Happily, as you play through the game, these elements 
 begin to make more sense, and the Observatory really begins to feel like an equivalent to Peach's 
 Castle, as opposed to a face-less level hub.
  
  But that's not to say the story of Super Mario Galaxy is necessarily good. On the contrary, in 
 many ways Super Mario Galaxy back-peddles from various story telling devices we saw in Super Mario 
 Sunshine -- the barrage of cutscenes that pulled Sunshine's story ahead are curiously missing from 
 Galaxy. Beyond a stellar opening cinematic, some dialogue with Rosalina, show downs with Bowser, 
 and intros to bosses ... the game ultimately leaves you to your own devices to figure out what's 
 going on. That's not to say that doing so is necessarily difficult, but the game's presenation 
 would have surely been enhanced had Nintendo EAD Tokyo put in the effort to make more cutscenes 
 and more story.
  
  A finally bubble-buster to the game's story is the ending cinematic. It's indeed epic and beautiful, 
 but much like 2001: A Space Odyssey, it's extremely unclear as to what precisely is going on, and 
 although you get the gist of it in the end, exactly what happens ends up being open to interpretation. 
 Needlesss to say, its kind of annoying to watch something so epic and wonderful and not understand 
 what it was all about.
  
  There's a very vast number of "galaxies" in the game, which are what my friend would call "boards". 
 A strong downside to these galaxies, however, is that many of them simply aren't as big as even 
 past Mario games we've seen. Indeed, many of the worlds in Super Mario 64 dwarf the boards you 
 can explore in Super Mario Galaxy, and even worse than that is the fact that the galaxies, on average, 
 only contain three different levels on each board. To be fair, some galaxies get as many as 6 levels 
 to them ... but likewise, many galaxies you'll happen across will contain absolutely no more than 
 one level to play them on ... so how much content you'll find in Super Mario Galaxy is very much 
 in question. But on a positive note, each and every level is undoubtably fun enough for you to 
 go back and play them again and again, for no other reason than the simple enjoyment of them. And 
 that may be more than what you could say for Super Mario Sunshine.
  
  If you don't yet know, a major selling point of Super Mario Galaxy is the game's spherical worlds. 
 If you've played the game at Gamestop or EB Games, the liklihood is you've played some of the very 
 first levels of the Good Egg Galaxy, which is very much the poster child of this game. An upside 
 to this world layout is that each puzzle is presented to you in a new and mind bending way for 
 you to solve them, but the downside to it is that the levels do become extremely linear because 
 of them -- although exploration CAN be done in these levels (and are often required to find secret 
 stars) , doing so is certainly not easy and may not even be that much fun considering how confusing 
 the worlds become. To ease your weariness, however, many of the later Galaxies you'll come across 
 forgo these small, linear planetoid boards in exhanged for larger, free-roaming environments similar 
 to what we see in Super Mario 64, so you'll find a healthy dose of level design within the title.
 
  
  To add to that, Super Mario Galaxy also experiments with Wii Remote controls on some levels, which 
 include mainly 3 different types of play ... including Ball Rolling, when requires you to hold 
 the Wii Remote straight up like a stick and tilt it in various directions to control Mario as he 
 walks on top of a rolling ball ala Super Monkey Ball. There's also Bubble Blowing, in which Mario 
 becomes trapped in a bubble that is blown through obstacles using the Wii Remote's pointer which 
 becomes a hair-dryer-esque blowing tool. The good news is all of these controls are remarkably 
 well designed and respond extremely well.
  
  The standard gameplay controls work ALMOST as well, however. A stand out problem you'll come across 
 is how the game mysteriously seems to get confused on how to interpret your joystick movements 
 in relation to the camera. On plenty of occasions I've tried to circle back around a spherical 
 planetoid only to, upon getting close to the edge, have my joystick begin to try to move Mario 
 literally upwards on the planet as opposed to continuing forward in depth to the back side of the 
 world. I know that's hard to imagine, but the simple result of this is that Mario will start to 
 run in circles uncontrollably and uncorrectably, which can oftin result in your demise if a large 
 rolling obstacle is heading your way.
  
  Graphically, Super Mario Galaxy looks extremely similar to Super Mario Sunshine as far as polygonal 
 modeling is concerned. Where Galaxy excells, however, is exactly where the Wii excells over the 
 Gamecube -- the lighting, effects, photo-realistic textures, and increased processing power will 
 flesh out each polygon into running at a liquid-smooth 60 frames per second at near XBox 360 graphical 
 quality. The experienced gamer will be able to tell that Mario and other character models have 
 no where near the polygonal care that Master Chief might have ... and nor is the game pushing nearly 
 as many polygonals in nearly as large of environments, but the attached lighting, textures, and 
 effects certainly gives what Mario Galaxy's got XBox 360-esque polish. That being said, titles 
 like Metroid Prime 3 have wowed me a little more than the simple attractiveness of Super Mario 
 Galaxy. Why that is might have something to do with realism versus cartoonism, but there's no misstaking 
 that Mario Galaxy is really strutting its stuff.
  
  The game is a tad on the easy side, however ... and the lack of a true co-op mode (ala your friend 
 controlling Luigi and bouncing around along side you) is indeed a little dissappointing, but that 
 doesn't overshadow what Super Mario Galaxy does indeed have, which is amazing fun. I personally 
 don't believe this game will dethrone Super Mario 64 from the hearts of Mario fans, but it will 
 certainly come in at least a close second, and it truly is a must have Wii title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shivercraft
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  There is nothing bad I can say about this game, well other than the fact that the camera angles 
 will screw with your mind when you first start to play the game, but it, oddly enough, will not 
 affect your ability to smash some goombas.
  
  The graphics are sharp and clear, the level design is phenomenal, the controls are fluid and responsive, 
 the presentation is splendid, and the overall enjoyment level of this game is probably the highest 
 I have experienced in many years. Other than the aforementioned camera angles, the only other gripe 
 I got is the voice acting (or lack thereof) , but being as it is kind of in Nintendo's history to 
 have video game characters that don't really talk, (Link, Mario, Kirby, Samus, Donkey Kong, etc.) 
 I can forgive this aspect. It doesn't take away from me having absolute bliss while playing this 
 amazing game.
  
  The micro-planet idea seemed kind of, well, stupid to me when I first heard about it, but Nintendo 
 showed me just how wrong I was. The constantly changing perspective in relation to the gravitational 
 pull of the planet is sheer genius, it makes the game stay fresh, and your attention remains locked 
 onto the screen.
  
  I will not go into the suits, which are another great feature pulled off by Nintendo, simply because 
 I don't feel the need to explain into any more detail the awesome of this game.
  
  I usually save this kind of score for a stellar game, but what I got with Super Mario Galaxy was 
 a game that was beyond stellar.
  
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madroxcide
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  This has been said every since it was released by many people but you know what it needs to be 
 said again. Super Mario galaxy is so fantastic it is nearly unbelievable. This game is the true 
 successor to Mario 64 not just because it is the next Mario game no, much like Mario 64 was a complete 
 breakthrough for 3d gaming and platforming Mario Galaxy does the same especially on a console just 
 begging to have a real game rather than mini game compilation.
  
  Graphics in Super Mario Galaxy are gorgeous! Mario has never looked so good and although its not 
 the mushroom kingdom that we see in this adventure for Mario it doesn't matter. This game has a 
 lot of detail on the graphics to make this art style not only make these believable looking worlds 
 and effects but to give this game a look that is very very special. There are so many things that 
 these galaxies have that make them completely unique from each other but it sets it up for some 
 amazing moments. 
  
  Gameplay is what Mario games always have and this is no let down. In Mario 64 there were some camera 
 problems because that was the first game to do what it did, when you go back and play that now 
 its still a fantastic game but you can tell the camera was trouble at times. The way Mario Galaxy 
 was set up i believe from the original idea completely fixed any possible camera issues. The viewpoints 
 used on the smaller planets and even the bigger ones just work so well only occasionally you might 
 wish you could see something a bit different or change it a bit but thats not often.
  
  Controls work very well in Mario. Nintendo didn't make the motion or the pointing capabilities 
 of the wiimote just a cheap trick. You use the pointer on the screen at all times you use it to 
 gather star bits which is used as the game's currency for unlocking some extra galaxies and in 
 some levels for power ups. You can also use the pointer to shoot those star bits to stun enemies 
 if needed. Everything else is handled like a mario game, you can move, you can jump, while moving 
 doing 3 jumps in a sequence to jump higher, you can wall jump, hold down z to duck down and hold 
 z and hit jump while moving for the long jump. This time to attack you just shake the wiimote which 
 is very responsive you will never have the motion controls feel like they don't respond.
  
  Sound is really nice in this game. All of the sounds from the worlds you will visit sound like 
 they should. The music is fantastic there is a mix of music from older mario games. I noticed a 
 lot more music from Super Mario 3 that was remixed which is a good thing because its nice to be 
 playing a Mario game and hear that for nostalgic value.
  
  Overall this game is just utterly fantastic and if you own a Wii you owe yourself this game. There 
 for a while i was tempted to sell my Wii because i hadn't played it in months. I bought Mario Galaxy 
 and i now know why i bought a Wii in the first place. If Nintendo can keep this up, and 3rd party 
 developers can see this true gem of a game and take notes from it the Wii has an extremely bright 
 future ahead of it.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: popcorn77
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy
  
  Last August I bought my nintendo wii and was amazed by Resident Evil 4. Since then nothing much 
 has really shone... until now. Super Mario Galaxy once again tells the story of Bowser capturing 
 Princess Peach but this time there's a bit of a twist. Now Mario must find Stars to power a special 
 lighthouse beacon type thing to locate Peach. Sounds pretty cool eh. well Nintendo have really gone 
 all out on this one which is probably better than the acclaimed Mario 64!!! Here's the stats:
  
  
  Gameplay:9.5
  The controls play brilliantly except for a few minor camera problems the 
 game plays better than any on the Wii. The levels or Galaxys are sooooooo creative and different 
 you'll want to go back and explore them for hours on end. the costumes are really fun but can confuse 
 you a bit. Which is why I give it a 9.5.
  
  
  Graphics:10
  Of all the Wii games i've played I haven't seen anything look so amazing. There are so many colours 
 that you'll just look on in amazement. Mario himself looks the same as he did in Sunshine (minus 
 the spray thingy) but the world around him is what really catch your eyes. everything just goes 
 together perfectly which is why I give it a 10.0.
  
  
  Sound: 8
  Like all Mario games there's very little speech that isn't just text which I find rather annoying. The 
 music great though it fits really well with the Galaxy you're in. It makes the game more lively 
 and in some ways makes up for the lack of speech. I give it an 8.0.
  
  
  Overall:9
  My conclusion is that this is a must have game for anyone with a Nintendo Wii and probably one 
 of the better ones out there. I feel it may deserve better than 9.1 bar the dialogue.
  
  
  Jamie Keenan -_- Popcorn77 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinno441
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  When reserving Wii games over the summer, I would always brush off the store clerk's common question, 
 "Would you like to reserve Mario Galaxy?" I always refused because I did not think much of this 
 game. I was dead wrong. When I first played this game an immediate sense of awe came upon me and 
 I realized that this is the most amazing game I have ever had the honor of owning.
  
  The Good:
  -Everything, absolutely everything.
  
  The Bad:
  -Nothing.
  
  I started 
 out the game and caught on to the game's controls at once. Unlike other Wii games, the controls 
 did not seem forced into the game at the last second. The controls are amazingly simple. Press 
 A to jump, B to fire star bits, C to center your camera, Z to crouch, the D-Pad to move your camera 
 if you ever need to and all you have to do to collect star bits is wave your Wii-mote at them.
 
  
  The camera has always been the problem with platformer games and it never really has been resolved 
 before now. Nintendo's camera for Mario always moves with Mario, and unless they want it to get 
 in your way like on some of the circular planets, it will never get in your way.
  
  The story is the same as every main Mario game. Bowser hatches a scheme, kidnaps Peach, blah blah 
 blah. This may seem bland for it being the billionth time Peach has been kidnapped, but it has 
 happened so many times that it even seems kind of comical. This kidnapping is a little serious 
 too, with the musical score and the vast ammount of battle ships firing at you as you make your 
 way to the damsel in distress. You are then knocked into space by a magikoopa and re-awaken on 
 a planet called the Gate and your story thus begins.
  
  The graphics will constantly impress even as you go farther into the game. I was absolutely blown 
 away by the fire levels as the laval and rocks you stood on were so shiny. It was simplistic and 
 the graphics were always clean, but they always managed to invoke feelings of wonder and awe as 
 you progressed through the game.
  
  The soundtrack is also wonderful. It is fully orchestrated and adds to the game in everyway. I 
 remember griping about the repition of sound in Super Mario 64. While this may happen here, the 
 sound is too impressive to not be repeated.
  
  The gameplay is so varied that it gives you many thoughts of this game having an "identity crisis" 
 but it all fits in so together that you need not worry. Many of the games mechanics rely on you 
 using the Wii-mote in a few unique ways to grab on to blue stars, blow yourself accross the level 
 as a bubble, control your Manta-ray as you go through intimmidating water courses, and try to balance 
 on a ball as you go through an obstacle course to break it open for a star. The platforming is 
 still there with all the jumping, collecting, and boss bashing you can imagine. There are several 
 ways to deal with foes now as you can use star bits to deter your foes from you and weaken them. 
 
  
  There are 120 stars to be collected and one may think that having so many filler stars makes the 
 game pointless, but surprisingly, it doesn't and gives a major challenge to those who think they 
 are good at platformers. The last couple stars made me trying for hours to get all 120, and made 
 me almost break my Wii-mote. That may give you the sense that the game is hard but I can easily 
 describe it as "just right". The beginning of the game and the required 60 stars to get to Bowser 
 are easy to get and may challenge new gamers, but after that the kiddy gloves come off. The purple 
 coin missions replace the red coin missions on a huge scale. Having to jump from panel to panel, 
 having them either repeatedly flip or dissapear while being timed trying to get 100 coins is intensly 
 difficult, and just one example of the almost impossible challenges the game offers, but the reward 
 of unlocking a new game, and the reward of seeing a big 120, (or 121) is worth it.
  
  120 stars may seem a lot to anyone who has played a Mario game before, but the games stars have 
 become more managable to get. Red coins missions are gone, as well as collect 100 normal coins, 
 which, to me, made the game much more managable, and gave me more motivation to go through and 
 get them all.
  
  One may also think that this game loses it's shine after a while. It doesn't. Even after beating 
 Bowser, and even after my 90th star, I was still being amazed by the amazing Toy Time Galaxy and 
 the flight suit Mario, which, even though it isn't used much, is an awe inspiring feature that 
 is a must see for anyone who enjoyed the wing cap in Mario 64.
  
  Overall, this game does more than deliver. It delivers, plops itself on your dining room table, 
 and opens itself for you. I am proud to give this game a perfect 10 and proud to call it the best 
 game I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazygame2
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS BRILLIANT!!!!!!
  
  I bought this game today and as soon as finished the update and pressed the disc channel, i knew 
 this will be a great game, all because of that Japanese man saying SUPER MARIO GALAXY!. The game 
 sorry isn't the most original but they Nintendo do know how to make the same story be a different 
 story each time and still entertain people. 
  
  This game is one of the best game of the year and i would defiantlyplay it over again, i suggest 
 you buy it. You may think am strange for given it perfect because it is the same story each time, 
 but the fact is, it is perfect and all the wii bashes can go away because this a is a good game. 
 
  This game isn't childish and is great and i can wait for a new mario game on the wii.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_final_sora
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  the good:
  the graphics on this are the best on the wii to date
  simple controlls
  learning curve is basicly non existant
  
  the bad:
  camera gets bad on rare occasions
  
 
  the ugly:
  can be disorienting at times
  
  the review:
  mario galaxy is a game in a million with simple controlls and gameplay is easy enough for anyone 
 to pick up the controller and start playing but don't be fooled it gets really difficult at certain 
 places sspecially the 1st time you pick up the spring power up.
  
  this game in my opinion is the only mario game thats good enough to be a sequel for mario 64 thats 
 how good it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IMAHAPYHIPPO
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  The good: A brand new Mario adventure, which adds both new elements of gameplay and brings back 
 traditional Mario style. Easily the most innovative and frequent use of the Wii remote in a "traditional" 
 game. Plenty of stuff to do and collect. Outstanding graphics makes this the best looking Wii game 
 on store shelves.
  
  The bad: Mario feels a bit more sluggish than he did in his previous 3d endeavors. A lot of his 
 outstanding acrobatic moves from 64 and Sunshine have been removed. Too many boss fights.
  
  Mario Galaxy is a game that will have anyone who owns a Wii or has been a fan of Nintendo for 
 any significant amount of time icthing in their pants to get a hold of it. When you start the game 
 off, you get a familiar story with a new twist, hence the outer space theme. While the game is 
 an absolute masterpiece, some of it feels like its been stripped down and undercooked.
  
  The gameplay is solid. Mario moves around fluidly, and once you get used to running around round 
 objects instead of flat ones, it works rather well. But many people won't be able to help but feel 
 that Mario feels a lot more sluggish and slow than he has in his previous 3d adventures. He doesn't 
 move quite as fast, and a lot of his acrobatic moves have been cut out, such as the dive when running, 
 the spiral kick, and any basic form of attack besides the standard 'jump on the enemy' tactic. 
 It definately gives the whole game the old-school Mario feel, and once you get used to the somewhat 
 stripped down controls, you accept it, and will probably enjoy it. But it's still a little bit 
 of a let-down that he no longer moves like a Gold medal gymnast and more like a fat plumber.
  
  The game uses the Wii remote like no other 'traditional' game has yet. It implements it in 
 small mini-game type levels and includes a few obstacles in the regular levels that will have you 
 stretching and bending in interesting ways. While the game would still be great without them, it's 
 definatley a relief to finally see how the Wii remote was designed to work and a game that utilizes 
 both it's traditional and innovative gameplay styles. And while they are subtle, almost all of 
 them work extrememly well, and I'm excited to see what other kinds of things Miyamoto and other 
 developers are going to do in the future.
  
  As far as the content of the game goes, it's a little dissapointing that there are A LOT of boss 
 battles, which usually ends up being a larger version of the standard enemy you encountered in 
 the process of getting to it. They are huge, screen filling beasts that will jack you up, and they're 
 usually a lot of fun to beat. They're all rather unique, but it becomes a bit tiresome running 
 away from his attacks, then hitting him in his weak spot three times to kill him. A little bit 
 more variation could have helped the game.
  
  The screenplay is unparallelled on the Wii to this date. Everything is bright, vibrant, and sharp. 
 It's got a great artistic style that definately fits with the game and the direction it's trying 
 to go. The music is beautifully orchestrated, blending classic Mario tunes with some new spacy 
 themed songs, and they fit the game perfectly. It definatley adds a dramatic atmosphere to the 
 game, and this might just be Mario's most epic adventure yet.
  
  Mario Galaxy blends a lot of new and old, bringing back a lot of the classic Mario style and adding 
 the new gravity and outer space elements to the game. While it definately feels different from 
 the 3d Mario's of the past, it's quickly shrugged off because the game is so much fun. It's easily 
 the best platformer, and game for that matter on the Wii, and probably will be for quite some time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkullLeader00
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  I'm not going to go into a huge review because simply put this is as good as Mario 64. This is 
 the best game for the Wii hands down and one of the best games to come out for 2007!
  
  Playing without boundaries on spheres is fantastic and it deserves all the accolades its getting.
 
  
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 9
  Design: 10
  Fun: 10
  
  Wish they could create an engine that would allow true COOP mode where two people can play characters 
 through these levels! But instead they at least gave us the chance to have a semi COOP mode where 
 your friend can control the stars.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KHgamer24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  first lets start with the graphics a good improvement of other mario games
  
  second its time for sound for the sound its freakin awsome.
  
  third the gameplay its very 
 good but im a little disipointed about the 1 attack the spin its cool and all but come on we could 
 of got something better.
  The costumes are a good addition to the seris but some of them are hard to control 
  
  you 
 should be able to get the fire suit earlier in the game i havent beat the game yet. i will in about 
 3 weeks 
  
  it deserves its score 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonassoderstrom
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  I have been playing video games for at least 15 years and I must say I am amazed when I see what 
 they managed to achieve with Super Mario Galaxy.
  
  Graphics
  Without a doubt the best the Wii has to offer. But it's so much more than that. It is really fracking 
 beautiful.
  
  Sound
  It's the music you loved for all other Mario games mixed with superb new original music.
  
 
  Level Design
  Wow! More innovating and original than anything I have EVER played. Every new stage blows me away.
 
  
  Gameplay
  Running around in the 3D world is pure joy, the controller works perfectly.
  
  Story
  The story is very simple but it works.
  
  Feeling
  It reminds me of when I played 
 Super Mario World for the first time, but so much more.
  
  Summary
  Best game on Wii I have played.
  Best plattformer I have ever played.
  Best Mario game I have 
 ever played.
  One of the best games I have played, Ever.
  Perfect game.
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jkokas211
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  I got this game the day it came out excited to play. I played for four hours straight. And i am 
 already at the end. I found this game way to easy, you can get every star on your first try. The 
 only reason i really died is because i tried to make big jumps that i knew would be hard to make. 
 I played the game for 3 days and only need 10 more stars. If you are a true fan of the mario series 
 get it. But it just might disapoint you with the lack of levels and the repetitive game play. so 
 before you go out and buy a 50 dollar game and beat it in 2 days go rent it first and if this game 
 is a challenge to you, you are eather five years old, or an idiot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThisFire
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  I truely don't know where to start with this one...
  
  Graphics - Best on the Wii for sure. They use an excellent art style to express a big, colourful 
 world with hundreds of twists and turns, and it all comes together perfectly (so far. I've got 
 50 stars while writing this review. Only 70 to go!!) A+
  
  Sound - Modern versions of Mario classics. How can you go wrong? A+
  
  Gameplay - Absolutely, 
 inarguable one of the MOST FUN games I've ever played. The challenge seems just right all the way 
 through. Yeah, some levels I'll whip through in less than mins, but some levels I'll die 5 times 
 trying to get through the craziness. It blows my mind how well Nintendo dealt with all the gravity 
 changes. Jumping straight up, flipping around, and landing in the opposite direction should feel 
 disorienting, but it all works so well, it just doesn't. It's amazing.
  
  Controls -They get their own section here, because... WOW. They work perfectly. There hasn't been 
 one time when I could blame the game for not doing what I want it to. The controls respond perfectly 
 every time. Great motion controls, and the ball levels (where I feel the controls just could've 
 fallen apart) are very challenging, in a fun way. I'll die twently times just to finish the level, 
 and fun EVERY SINGLE TIME!!!
  
  Level Design - I can't even describe it. It's just that amazing. You really have to go out and 
 get (I'd buy, but rent if wish) just to go through some of these levels. One level might involve 
 a doxen different planetoids, that all fit into the context of the level, but manage to feel like 
 a different place each time. 
  
  Overall - Oh for the Love of GOD! If you have a Wii, BUY THIS GAME. If you don't BUY A WII AND 
 THIS GAME. I love it. Nintendo just the set the bar (again. God I love Nintendo) for every other 
 platformer in the near future.
  
  THIS is why Nintendo can release a system that's not technically proficient, and sell millions 
 of units. They understand GAMING and GAMERS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Never_Fear
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  SMG may be and probably is best game for the Wii. Period. I could stop right there, but let's get 
 into some details on why this game is the best game.
  
  First off, SMG makes it seem like Sunshine never happened. Mario doesn't have nor need any cool 
 accessory to help him. It's just what the premise was when they got the idea for it. Mario in space. 
 With that brilliant idea, they got right on the original Mario track that was messed up by Sunshine.
 
  
  Second, if you have all your lights off while playing this, Mario will literally shine right on 
 the planets. It's just a beautiful design of Mario and the planets. Not only the visuals and colors, 
 but the graphics! One word. Wow. By far the best graphics for the Wii that we have seen.
  
  Third, it's so cool seeing these old foes being transformed from October 18 1885 all the way to 
 November 12 2007! Squids, goombas, koopas, Bowser, toads, you want, you got it!
  
  This pretty much sums up my review on Super Mario Galaxy. Some extra little facts are that it's 
 surprisingly long, but not Zelda long, it IS worth the $50, and finally, Mario has finally returned 
 from his long rest, to defeat enemies such as Master Chief, Sonic, and others. Hopefully SSBB will 
 live up to expectations as it is most likely the next Mario game. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingotnw
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  First off, I want to say that I am no Mario fan-boi or what have you. I have been playing these 
 games since the original Mario Brothers in the arcade so I have played them all. My favorite in 
 the past has always been either SuperMario Bros., Or Super Mario World. I loved both of those games. 
 Super Mario 3 was also great, and 2 is worth mentioning. Mario's jump to 3D, however has never 
 impressed me. I was not a big fan of Mario 64 by any means. It was ok... But it was fairly lifeless 
 I thought. Mario Sunshine, despite owning 2 copies, I was never able to get into. As recent as 
 2 days ago I was trying to play it and I just didn't like it too much. I'm not sure what it was. 
 Maybe that silly water thing, maybe just the overall theme of water, i'm really not sure. Into 
 the now...
  
  I wan't really looking forward to this game. The only reason I knew it came out is because it was 
 on the Gamespot front page. I read the review and thought "typical, Gamespot kissing Nintendo/Mario's 
 a**. Then I read a couple of other reviews and decided I would rent the game to see what it was 
 all about. Honestly, words can't describe it. I can't remember the last time I had so much fun 
 playing a Mario themed game. I would probably have to go all the way back to when I was playing 
 SMB1 on the original NES to recall this level of enjoyment out of a Mario game. 
  
  I have a game pass to Blockbuster across the street so I play everything that comes out, and this 
 game is easily and without a doubt the best WII game that is available. One of the best current 
 games available would be a better way of putting it. Forget what you were expecting from this game 
 and try it. Its an absolutely amazing game. I refuse to put it down!
  
  A brief explanation of my graphics score though. While the visuals are amazing, this and every 
 other WII game will be docked a half point from me because it is not in HD. Other than that, this 
 game is perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Captain_Ronixis
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 3:07 am PT
Review:  The new controller, graphics and the cosmic world makes Super mario galaxy the best mario game ever 
 since mario 64...
  A new idea was developed in super mario galaxy, which is the use of the gravity as a new instrument 
 to explore the maps that are built in space.
  In addition, the wii controller gives more fun to the game.
  What makes the game better is that 
 super mario galaxy is all played in space. in different galaxies. also, what Iike in the game is that 
 you can go from a planet to another in the same level. fun isn't it?
  as for the hero (mario) he's given some new creative moves.
  Finally, the game is not very difficult. however 
 you can find find some challenges (for the mario fans) ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MakUub
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 1:34 am PT
Review:  this has been one of the best Mario games ever ive seen in all of my years this is gonna be sweet 
 you gotta get it this is a game to be realised i know that some people have already got it in Britain 
 i love this game so much its is the bomb of wii games so far that ive seen except super paper Mario 
 but still this is a great game on the wii and only for the wii any one would be lucky to get this 
 game it is sick beyond believe the power up costumes do it better its every day you see Mario in 
 a bee suit flying do you hm do you now i've write because this is a cool game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A3trix
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Overall Super Mario Galaxy was an fantastic experience!!! This game is just as good as Nintendos 
 breakthrough platform game Super Mario 64... Sunshine uhhhh.... flat out bad! But u have to give 
 sunshine some credit if Galaxy was the sequel to Super Mario 64 we might be having poorly made 
 Sunshine on the Wii instead of Galaxy! I don't really play an adventure game profusly just to beat 
 it (like Halo3 or Guitar Hero3) , i usually like to take my time, but this game took me a good few 
 days 2 beat! Stunning Graphics for the Wii, zany puzzles that will keep the fun going and u can't 
 leave out, DA BUMBLEBEE SUIT! Luved it! lol The OVERALL BEST MARIO EXPERIENCE I HAVE EVER HAD!!! 
 BUY IT!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingX
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  I don't think any text that I put here can describe this game enough or make up for how truly good 
 it is.
  I have waited for years for a game like this, after Mario 64 I have NOT been that amused by for 
 example Mario sunshine that for me felt kinda rushed and was just reapeating mario games all over.
 
  
  With Galaxy Ninetdo has made ALOT of cool new features that of course much is due to the wii remote 
 controller combined with some classic mario stuff aswell.
  
  In Mario Galaxy so much new stuff is implemented to bring the mario games to the number one platform 
 game, and my bet is that this game will hold that postion for a very long time.
  
  To expereince the best graphical mario game to date (and the most beautiful Wii game to date) ge 
 this one.
  If you wanna have a platformer that will have you glued to your seat, get this one.
  If you wanna 
 find yourself kinda of nodding along with the awsome music, get this one.
  
  Thank you Nintendo! You showed the world why YOU are the number one company in making quality games 
 when it matters!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LEPPY
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Without going into great detail, Mario Galaxy starts you in slowly just like I remember the first 
 3D incarnation of the series did. It baby steps you into the feel for the game through the intro 
 cinimatics and then step by step introduces you to new mechanics of the game. Each of the tutorial 
 like steps is optional though, so that if you are a faster learner or are familliar with the moves 
 already you're not slowed down in any way.
  
  The progression of the game keeps you involved and adapting to new environments from the very begining. 
 Having only spent a short amount of time playing so far and having watched my 4 year old jump right 
 in, I have to say that my first impression is of an attention grabbing, fun filled and challenging 
 game. Although mostly intuitive, anything that seems initially difficult becomes managable in a 
 quick time frame reducing frustration.
  
  Gotta say it's a keeper for now, and get back to playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stayinalive84
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Why are you interested in the Wii? Come on, be honest. It isn't the graphics. It can't be just 
 the price. Don't tell me it's just because of the newfangled control scheme. It's about the games, 
 and you know it. There hasn't been much of a reason to get a Wii in the last few months. Sure, 
 there has been a handful of quality titles added to its library (Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn and 
 Metroid Prime 3: Corruption head up that list) , but there haven't been any truly amazing, awe-inspiring 
 games to be seen. If you have a Wii, you've probably been hoarding Virtual Console games as a justification 
 for your purchase. Not that there's anything wrong with that, but chances are, you're in need of 
 a something better right now. Something good.
  
  Something like Super Mario Galaxy.
  
  It doesn't seem very interesting at first. In fact, the plot is so stale and nonsensical that it 
 almost feels tacked on. You don't really need to know who Rosalina is; aside from giving off a 
 shiny aura and a few sagely words of wisdom, she has little importance overall. Nor do you really 
 need to know the Lumas, which are nothing more than tiny, talking stars that float around Rosalina's 
 Comet Observatory. Why would Mario ever go to an observatory, you ask? Turns out Bowser has kidnapped 
 Peach - again - and has whisked her off into outer space. Conveniently enough, the observatory 
 is capable of interstellar travel. It just needs several Power Stars to get the engines turned 
 on again
  
  See where this is going? If you've played Super Mario 64 or Super Mario Sunshine, this plot should 
 sound pretty familiar. This game borrows much from those titles; despite its beautiful design, 
 the Comet Observatory is little more than an intergalactic Peach's Castle or Isle Delfino. The 
 complex is made up of smaller sections, each of which contains its own dome-shaped observatory. 
 It's from these points that you can see the various galaxies  the apparently new term for 'levels' 
  and choose whichever one you want to play. Like in previous games, completing a certain objective 
 or challenge in a galaxy nets you a Power Star, which is used to power up the other domes. Since 
 everything is run on Power Stars, you won't be able to access the majority of the domes or their 
 corresponding galaxies at the beginning of the game. Each galaxy has a number corresponding to 
 the number of Stars needed to see it, which means that you'll be beating dozens of levels just 
 to unlock new areas and challenges.
  
  That's where the similarities end, however. Super Mario Galaxy may be a three-dimensional platforming 
 game, but it crafts it in a style all its own. No longer are you limited to mere wall kicks and 
 hard-to-reach platforms; several levels manipulate gravity and allow for much freer reign over 
 the surfaces you walk on. This isn't just about jumping onto a higher platform. This is about walking 
 on walls, ceilings, and sides of anything that might present itself. It's not surprising that many 
 of the initial stages of the game are comprised of small, spherical objects; they're just used 
 to get you acquainted with the unconventional perspective. Mario could be dashing around a giant 
 chunk of space rock, but the camera never allows you to think that he's on a completely flat surface. 
 He can run up or down the screen, leap upside down into craters, and bound off the rocky surface 
 towards anything else that might have a gravitational pull. 
  
  Contrary to what the promotional videos might have shown you, however, the levels or Super Mario 
 Galaxy are not entirely made up of little round planets for Mario to jump over. You'll get to wander 
 over rockets, hedge mazes, winding paths, space colonies, and random junk. There are several levels 
 comprised of such things, but many of the later areas are more focused on the blend of basic platforming 
 concepts, the warped camera perspective, and the constantly shifting gravity. Take the Dreadnought 
 spaceship level, for example. You start off by walking up the hull of the ship (dodging roving 
 bands of laser guns in the process) and finding a way in. But once you're inside, the game behaves 
 more like a two-dimensional platformer; you have dodge motorized engine parts, kick your way up 
 to another level, etc. But once the alternate gravity comes into play, you'll find yourself running 
 up walls and using those same parts as makeshift platforms while you dodge spikes, cannonballs, 
 and anything else you might find. Other levels force you to contend with a scrolling camera and 
 ledges that vanish or appear inconsistently. Though most of the first few galaxies are fairly easy 
 to complete, the game's difficulty level gradually rises.
  
  Regardless of their designs  some of which are extremely well crafted  each level has a fair 
 degree of linearity. That can be a real downer, especially for those of you that loved the previous 
 Mario games for their massive, exploration-based areas. In some of the stages, you'll simply have 
 to follow the beaten path and contend with what obstacles, objectives, or enemies that hinder you. 
 You'll usually have to track down five shiny objects (note to Sunshine veterans: this is far less 
 tedious than the coin collecting) and convert them into a star-shaped transporter. Doing so will 
 launch you to the next section of the stage, which might require some platforming, hitting a switch, 
 killing enemies, etc. Such design makes the levels seem more of a throwback to older Mario games 
 than to the three-dimensional ones. The game balances this out by featuring several large, open 
 levels for you to explore. You'll end up diving into the watery depths of a fish-shaped asteroid, 
 sneaking through a haunted mansion, or running through an autumn-colored forest. While it's usually 
 obvious as to where your objectives lie, the wide variety of levels makes for a unique experience 
 every time.
  
  While the levels are already fun to replay, the game actually gives you even more reasons to give 
 them additional playthroughs. Special comets occasionally show up near certain galaxies, making 
 small changes to the levels' designs. You can do speed runs of a given level, or even race a doppelganger 
 Mario across courses laden with obstacles. Other comets strengthen enemies or dilute your strength 
 as well. That's on top of all the hidden stars; you'll need to look carefully through each level 
 to find hidden sections or objectives to complete. Getting a total completion rating is quite a 
 task in itself; since it takes a minimum of 60 Power Stars (that's half of the total amount, by 
 the way) to beat the story, you'll spend well over ten hours collecting them all. After that, you 
 can collect the rest as you please.
  
  With so much insane platforming and awesome levels to contend with, you'd assume that Mario would 
 come pack his usual brand of jump tricks, right? Mario may look like his usual three-dimensional 
 self, but he's missing a few of the moves he had in previous games. He can't dive forward or slide 
 on his belly, which makes the gameplay seem a bit slower. He can't do any of those fancy breakdance 
 attacks anymore; instead, he does a Spin Attack (thanks to a timely shake of the WiiMote) to stun 
 his foes, then follows up with an automatic punt if he gets close enough to them. However, the 
 rest of the moves are back and easier to execute than ever. Since the majority of the jumps require 
 only the A and Z Buttons, you'll never have to worry about getting bogged down by complicated controls. 
 Between all the triple jumps, wall kicks, side somersaults, ground-pounds, and backflips, Mario 
 will be as agile as ever.
  
  The smooth platforming controls can be attributed to the minimal use of the WiiMote's motion sensors. 
 Instead, all of the motion-based controls (aside from the Spin Attack) come as secondary gameplay 
 elements, like throwing shells or clinging on to certain objects. If you point the WiiMote at the 
 screen, you can use it as a way to collect Star Bits, which are the used as currency, a means to 
 unlock additional levels, or even as projectiles to stun enemies. It's especially fun if you have 
 a friend over for some co-op gameplay (armed with another WiiMote, of course) , sniping enemies 
 with the Star Bits while you focus on progressing through a level. Other aspects, however, are 
 a bit more gimmicky; you'll have keep the controller steady as Mario balances on top of a ball, 
 turn it to control his manta ray surfboard, shake it to make him skate, or determine the wind flow 
 with a miniature fan. While the motion-based aspects are fairly useful, the simplicity of the regular 
 controls ensures that anyone can easily learn how to play.
  
  The game stumbles, however, when it comes to the items. Remember games like Super Mario Bros. 3 
 or Super Mario World, where you could use a wide variety of power-ups and items? Mario can pick 
 up a Fire Flower and sling fireballs again, but the effect wears off quickly. Also, the fireballs 
 are tricky to wield; since you have to flick the WiiMote to launch one, you have to make sure you're 
 facing the correct direction. By the time you've gotten the aim down, you'll likely have lost the 
 power-up. The Ice Flower turns Mario into an Iceman knockoff and grants him the ability to freeze 
 water and create platforms, but suffers from the brief time limit as well. Spring Mario is arguably 
 the best new suit; it turns Mario into a makeshift slinky and lets you perform some insanely high 
 jumps. His other suits aren't nearly as interesting; his Boo and Bee outfits allow him to phase 
 through some walls or fly for a few seconds respectively, but they're not fun to use. The only 
 awesome item comes with Red Star; you can take to the starry skies a la the Winged Cap from Mario 
 64. It's short, sweet, and oh-so fun.
  
  Don't be disheartened by the lacking power-ups, though. The majority of the levels require little, 
 if any use of the items. The galaxies are crafted to challenge your skills with the controls. Unlike 
 the first few beginner levels, many of the later galaxies feature tons of intricate platforming 
 challenges and fast-paced gameplay. Imagine climbing up a floating fortress. Not one that's just 
 filled with automated cannons and falling blocks, but one where all the outer walls separated into 
 smaller bands of platforms rotating at different speeds. Imagine climbing up an island of hardened 
 magma, frantically dodging falling fireballs and rivers of glowing lava as the ground slowly gets 
 eaten up from underneath. You can practically see the heat shimmering off that lava, or how the 
 level is cast in a red-orange hue to fit the ambience. Or how about being forced to stand on a 
 platform while having to dodge a constant barrage of missiles and some cleverly-placed electric 
 fences? The smooth animations and unrelenting chaos make for a lively, intense experience. 
  
  Such a presentation, however, would be nothing without the music to back it up. Super Mario 
 Galaxy's soundtrack is an impressive assortment of orchestrated themes. There's nothing quite as 
 exhilarating as climbing the back of a spaceship as it's being sucked into a black hole, only to 
 hear the dramatic music steadily rising as you make it to higher ground. Levels with faster pacing 
 are wonderful as well; as you feverishly leap from surface to surface, the music practically cheers 
 you on. Veterans of previous Mario games will easily recognize the remixes of classic themes. With 
 music sampled from the majority of the retro games (not to mention the countless other subtle references 
 strewn throughout the cosmos) older fans will definitely appreciate the little details that make 
 the game even more awesome.
  
  Listen, folks. If you have a Wii and have any interest in platforming games at all, get this game. 
 Yes, the basic collect-the-star formula has been retained from the last few titles. Yes, some of 
 the areas are linear and the items could have been done a little better. But the sheer amount and 
 variety of well-crafted levels cannot be ignored. The multi-surfaced design is a refreshing take 
 on an otherwise stale gaming genre. The simple, responsive controls and steady learning curve ensure 
 that any gamer, be they the child who gets this for his or her birthday or the weathered gaming 
 vet, can sit down and give this game a spin. Even if there is a fair amount of fan-service present, 
 you don't have to be some kind of Nintendo guru to appreciate what's being offered here. If you 
 ever need a reason for getting a Wii, Super Mario Galaxy is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFoxA
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  To be blunt, Super Mario Galaxy is a great game. Obviously the best the Wii has seen in this year 
 it has been out. This is basically the game that nearly every Wii owner bought their Wii for. This 
 is the game that hardcore gamers have been begging for. Although it is a fantastic game for longtime 
 Nintendo fans, new and non-gamers will love it as well. For example, my six year old sister saw 
 me playing this and asked if she could start a file. Nintendo has nailed it.
  
  Pros:
  
  +Amazing graphics
  +Stunning sound
  +Revolutionary gameplay
  +Controls implemented well
 
  +Difficulty is well balanced
  +Wiimote activities don't demand you to constantly shake it
  +A ton of extra stars to gather
  +Luigi is playable after gathering 120 stars
  
  Cons:
 
  
  -Story sucks
  -Sometimes the camera angles are slightly frustrating
  -A few jaggies
  -Co-op play is limited
  -No meter to show your play time (that I could find)
  -Star bits seemed 
 a bit overabundant
  
  The story, as in every other Mario game, is nigh nonexistent. Princess Peach tells Mario to come 
 down to her castle for the annual Star Festival as she has a present for him. Mario shows up, but 
 an old friend shows up as well. Yep, you guessed it. Bowser flies in and kidnaps Peach yet again. 
 Kamek shoots Mario off into the cosmos. Conveniently, Mario wakes up on a "planet" (more of a planetoid-like 
 ball) where he meets Rosalina, who owns a spaceship in which he chases after Bowser and Peach. 
 As you can see, this Mario title has a better story than Sunshine, but not a story worthy of a 
 title so great.
  
  If you've come looking for a great story; you're likely to be disappointed. However, there is an 
 interesting little thing on Rosalina's spaceship; in her library you can unlock chapters in a storybook 
 which uncover "things" (I won't reveal what) . While this is of small interest, it's not something 
 to really get excited about. I thought that it freshened things up a bit, as in Super Mario Sunshine 
 there wasn't anything of the sort.
  
  The graphics -- due mainly to the fact that Nintendo knows their own hardware -- are phenomenal. They 
 are easily the best on the entire system. I was only playing in SD, so it would look even better 
 on HD with component cables. Although, there are a few jagged edges, so I suggest sitting at least 
 five feet away from the TV; where they are unnoticeable. The textures are quite good as well. Especially 
 the water, which is some of the best water I've ever seen. The shading is very well done, especially 
 on Mario (you can get a good look at him as you collect a star) . I think Nintendo has outdone themselves 
 in the graphics; excelling on the minimal hardware that the Wii has.
  
  The sound is a variety of mixes; from classic Super Mario Bros. tunes (some from Super Mario Bros. 
 3 that I was ecstatic to hear) to new orchestrated themes. I even found myself humming the fantastic 
 theme from time to time. Don't worry, longtime fans; the sound effects are just as great. From 
 the warp pipe sound effect to Mario's voice, Nintendo knows what to do here. They even threw in 
 a little bit of voice acting (I would've loved to see the entire game in voice acting, but noooo, 
 we have to stay with text) . On the subject matter of voice actors, the actors are great. I especially 
 liked Rosalina's voice, which sounded like the perfect blend of kindness and sternness. That being 
 said, the music will even make you turn up your Wiimote speakers. Don't worry -- the sounds coming 
 from the speaker won't be full of static like other games (coughexcitetruckcough) , but clear and 
 blended perfectly with the action. Super Mario Galaxy's music has made me want to buy the soundtrack 
 of the game.
  
  Now, onto the most important subject of a game: the gameplay. As Super Mario Galaxy excels in many 
 other aspects, it pushes the gameplay beyond anything you've ever imagined a platformer to be. 
 Nintendo has always been known for bringing something innovative and revolutionary into a genre. 
 Take Super Mario 64, for example. It was the first Mario game to be in 3D, and after it came out, 
 many clones came. Now, Nintendo is revolutionizing again. If you thought that you would be getting 
 another dose of Super Mario 64 with upped graphics, then you're wrong. This is a completely new 
 game that is so fantastic that you might reconsider your favorite Mario title. Instead of the generic 
 platformer in which you stay mainly on a platform, this time Mario goes all the way around the 
 object you're on. Also, this time it introduces gravity into the mix. At one time near the beginning 
 of the game, there is a star shaped planetoid. You can jump all around it and it will keep you 
 on it. It's quite fun playing around with the gravity and I spent a long time doing so.
  
  In every Mario game to date, the currency has been coins. Galaxy switches up this formula a bit. 
 All coins do now is restore your health. Star bits are now the currency of the game. You can collect 
 them using the cursor that appears onscreen. Even though it was a nice little activity, I found 
 the star bits to be a bit overabundant. Within a few hours of playing I had nigh 3000 star bits. 
 But what would money be without something to spend it on? From time to time a hungry Luma will 
 appear and it will be up to you to feed it star bits. After feeding it, the Luma will transform 
 into a galaxy for you to explore. I found that this freshened things up, albeit not a lot.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy also has a few 2D side scrolling platforming levels in which gravity is 
 also implemented. In these levels arrows tell you which way the gravity will be going and you have 
 to solve the level accordingly. Although this has been done in a couple of other games (Metal Storm) 
 it is done very differently here. These levels also blend into the 3D levels really well, so you'll 
 barely feel the switch. Also included is a (limited) cooperative mode. A second player can stun 
 enemies (slightly) , make Mario jump, and collect star bits. Even though this was limited, it definitely 
 kept my smaller siblings occupated while I played.
  
  Of course, without good controls, this game wouldn't be anything, right? But, no need to worry. 
 The controls are great. In many recent Wii games, you have to do annoying tasks with the Wiimote 
 like "shake it constantly to swim." But, there's nothing like this in Super Mario Galaxy. The only 
 tasks you'll find yourself doing with the Wiimote are collecting star bits and shaking to activate 
 star warps (I have no clue what they're called) or attack. I think that the controls were done 
 quite well and other platformers made on Wii should learn from Galaxy.
  
  Other aspects of this game include replayability and camera control. The replayability of this 
 game is pretty good. After collecting 120 stars you can unlock Luigi as a playable character and 
 then replay the game as "Super Luigi Galaxy." While this is kind of limited, I am motivated to 
 unlock Luigi. The camera control, during a few times, can be frustrating. I know I died a couple 
 times. But, flaws aside, these other aspects are actually better than most other Mario games (Sunshine's 
 camera was sooooo frustating for me) .
  
  Overall, this game is a must buy for any Wii owner. If you're going to buy a Wii; this is the game 
 to buy it for. Honestly, this game has taken place as my favorite Mario game, beating my previous 
 favorite: Super Mario Bros. 3. If you're looking for a fantastic, innovative, and revolutionary 
 title that will completely redesign what "fantastic" means to you, then Super Mario Galaxy is for 
 you.
  
  Story: 8.5
  Graphics: 9.6
  Sound: 10
  Gameplay: 10
  Controls: 10
  Other: 9.8
  Total (is an average) : 9.65 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m1lkshakes
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo has thrown the overall clad slightly obese plumber back into the fray. This game is up 
 in the top 5 of 2007, along with Call of Duty 4, Bioshock, Halo 3, and maybe Mass effect? The use 
 of Wii motion sensing is outstanding, easily making it the best Nintendo game ever released to 
 date. The graphics are nothing you'll be complaining about, either. A step up from Metroid, and 
 possibly even on par with some of the weaker PS3 games. 
  The gameplay is just awesome. It's the same old mario you've come to love, and is a lot like SM 
 64. As you travel between the galaxies, you will collect power stars, and as you collect more, 
 new galaxies open up. But, it's so much more than that. Sure the story is getting is getting old, 
 but that doesn't even hurt the game. The concept of the round planets you travel on makes for a 
 very different gameplay style. You can even use a second playewr to stun enemies, help Mario by 
 allowing to double jump, and more.
  I simply love this game. Game of the year? possibly, but I bet CoD4 has got a better chance. If 
 you haven't already, buy a Wii and this game. NOW!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavidRswii
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Well Marios back and now he has learned some new tricks and found some new power ups now lets begin 
 with the story. Well a festival is going on right now around the Mushroom kingdom that is held 
 every 100 years known as the star festival and well Princess Toadstool (Peach) sends a letter to 
 Mario inviting him to join in on the party and like in most Mario games Bowser gets involved with 
 the story and crashes the party with these flying pirate ships, thuse leading to the kidnapping 
 of Peach Mario trys to save her and well Mario is blown into space.
  Mario wakes up on a planet with these stars and they turn into rabbits and u have catch them then 
 u meet a women who takes care of the stars then it goes from there
  
  Presentation:
  A unneeded side-tale but with a normal story for the Mario games. Good idea for the menu using 
 ur Miis as a planet/file, also include Wiiconnect24 and co-op mode 
  
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics on this game were made for the Wii and look next gen to me. But the graphics on this 
 game look like it pushes the Wii over the limit but amazingly it doesn't
  
  
  Sound:
  Sound reminds me of the old days and the last Mario game for the Cube most of the game is orchestrated 
 music and is really impressive with no shortcomings to the tunes
  
  
  
  Gameplay:
  To me this is Super Mario64 in space but with immprovements, amazing platforming make this game 
 perfect. It does not get any better then that
  
  
  
  Other:
  Well this game has above 40-galaxys with 120 stars and well this game will keep you busy for a 
 while... so what I'm saying is this is the best game for the Wii and is worth buying so go get it. 
 But I should mention this the game is a little more easier then the other Mario games out there
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: allied129
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is by far the best game I have played on the Wii by far and one of the best 
 games I have ever played. Everything about it is fun and great. The graphics are a tad under the 
 360s in my opinion which helps bring the whole universe to life in the game. The game play is quite 
 similar to that of the 64 game which you go around collecting stars (big or little) to help you 
 get to Bowser. The camera also works great since you always see Mario and whatever is around him. 
 the controls are right on too with using the remote and nun chuck addon, you use the remote to 
 do everything other then moving which is what the nun chuck is used for. The game can be difficult 
 in some parts but easy in others since there are times when you do have to solve puzzles.
  
  Overall, This game is the best game for the Wii to date and will be fun to play whenever you 
 need a great single player game to play on your Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarshyMan50
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Super Mario Galaxy
  
  9.0 Superb
  
  The Good: The controls are spot on, the gameplay is constantly changing, and the graphics are the 
 best on the wii.
  
  The Bad: Camera issues can cause you to die a lot. Co-op feels more like an add-on for parents 
 & little brothers and sisters.
  
  Nintendo has to be on something. Think about it. If I told you that a small Italian plumber flies 
 through space to save the universe and his (pseudo) girlfriend, you would probably start foaming 
 at the mouth and fall to the ground convulsing or run away screaming and failing your arms wildly. 
 Nevertheless, Super Mario Galaxy provides an amazingly challenging platformer dressed up in a super 
 cute polish with a new mind-bending look at something we have never seen before in the Mario universe: 
 The Galaxy.
  
  Mario is having another bad day when Princess Peach invites him to the castle yet again. Upon arrival, 
 Bowser shows up with a grip of airships (ala Super Mario Bros. 3) and a UFO (?) which abducts the 
 entire castle with Mario on it. As Mario hangs on to the castle, a magic koopa by the name of Kamek 
 blasts him with the playstation symbols (also from Super Mario World) he shoots from his wand. 
 When Mario regains consciousness, he is greeted by the first of the star people named Luma, and 
 a new (and hotter) Princess named Rosalina. She is a watcher of the stars who helps Mario on his 
 quest to save his "special one". The only way to do this is to gather the seven Grand Stars to 
 restore the observatory. Whew, that is a lot of text coming from a Mario game's story and in the 
 game there are a lot more cut scenes that previous Mario's, but the scenes do sport some of the 
 best graphics on the system to date.
  
  Mario has been jumping, running, and kicking for 20+ years and it's no different here, except for 
 the Wii related controls. Pointing at the screen with the Wii remote collects star bits, and every 
 fifty star bits you collect nets you an extra life. You can also use your star bits to stun enemies 
 by pointing and shooting. Also, there are other points where you have to use just the Wii remote 
 to complete a more precise task, but as scary as that sounds it never messes up what makes Mario 
 so great: jumping from one platform to another.
  
  The difficulty is very confusing at first. At the beginning, the game holds your hand, introducing 
 new gameplay like with the gravity changing based on what planetoid you're on and adjusting your 
 brain to being able to walk all the way around a world without falling into bottomless dark holes. 
 Later on, the game gets frustratingly difficult at points, but fans of Mario 64 will love (repeating) 
 LOVE these levels, but loath the majority of stars that are easy.
  
  One of the cool things about the game is that you never know what's going to be in the next galaxy. 
 While it still has ice planets, fire and lava, desert planets, and all the other kind of platforming 
 levels, it keeps it interesting by showing them in a new light with space being all around and 
 changing the gravity over and over multiple times. Also, the audio is worth noting being totally 
 orchestral, which sounds incredible and interactive with what your doing at times.
  
  Problems arise with the camera. The camera tries to quickly pan around to give you the best look 
 at Mario jumping on platforms, but sometimes the camera gets trapped behind houses or enemies causing 
 you to see a shadow of Mario potentially fall into a dark hole because you couldn't see where he 
 was walking. Also it's worth noting that the d-pad controls the camera but must of the time it 
 will not allow you to alter the camera in any way other than going to a first-person perspective, 
 which is strange being that in other 3D Mario games you had more control over the camera.
  
  There is also a co-op mode that will allow a second person to grab another Wii remote and point 
 at the screen to help you collect more star bits, which is nice for a mom to help her 8 year old 
 play, but more often than not you're going to want to be controlling Mario instead of a cursor 
 on-screen. There is, in cl@ssic Mario fashion, 120 stars in the game... make sure you grab all of 
 them. You won't be disappointed.
  
  To sum it up, Super Mario Galaxy deserves to be in your collection. It's a fun, challenging, inventive, 
 super cute, family friendly, polished, and a fresh take on a old franchise. When was the last time 
 you said that about one game?
  
  By Joshua Montgomery
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shengongwu3000
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  This new Mario game is the world's greatest Wii game I've ever played. As Mario was about to meet 
 Princess Peach, Bowser returns with a whole new evil plot to take over the galaxy. A new character 
 who looks just like Peach is named Rosalina. I love Rosalina better than Peach because her appearance 
 is much more appealing. Her hair covers half of her face and she wears a platinum crown and light 
 blue dress. The power stars are totally more beautiful than the ones from Super Mario 64. I like 
 the colorful and tasty star bits, which you feed to the Lumas.
  
  There are so many galaxies to conquer. Some are quite unusual. I found the purple, cosmic, and 
 speedy comets. I love the rare purple coins because purple is my most favorite color. The battles 
 against Bowser and his son are much more intense. I also enjoy Mario's new attack, the Star Spin. 
 Once the whole game is complete, it is Luigi's turn to save the galaxy from Bowser.
  
  I think this game kicks ass more than any other Mario games. It's like a whole new version of Super 
 Mario 64 and/or Super Mario Sunshine. It was kind of hard to get the hang of the Wii Remote and 
 Nunchuck, but I managed to master both Wii controllers. Even though I played this game at GameStop, 
 I was hoping to get it for my birthday as well as getting the Wii console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VooCad
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  The first thing we have to be thanks for is to god:
  
  -He invented water;
  -Then rivers;
  -Then pipes;
  -Then plummer;
  -Then games;
  and eventually MARIO.
  
 
  Just to say, if you were sure to know the meaning of fun then it is because you had never played 
 this game.
  
  Not graphics, not bla and more bla ... Just damn FUN.
  
  A really good buy, and a proof that the more important, and i say maybe, is not just to see the 
 drop of sweat in Mario's face, but to play a game that you have sure you are going to like, not 
 noticing time.
  
  WII is not just a new way to play, is also the machine that provide us the power not to play but 
 to live this great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lancealot325
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  God, its been 22 years since the first Mario game was released. Each Mario game has had some level 
 of success, with 1996's Super Mario 64 being even better than SMB 1. its been 11 years since SM64, 
 and 5 years since the lackluster Super Mario Sunshine. We've been waiting a while now for another 
 great Mario game. Well, if I had to choose, this game betters SM64 in every way possible.
  
  The game has the classic Mario plot: the Mushroom Kingdom is celebrating the "once-in-a-hundred" 
 years Star festival. Mario has once again been invitied to Princess Peach's castle cuz she wants 
 to give him something.... wonder what that could be? Anyways, as Mario is making his way to the 
 castle, Bowser appears and literaily lifts Peach -- nay, the ENTIRE castle into space. Mario gives 
 chase, but gets knocked off by some magic koopa. Your adventure will span across many galaxies 
 and areas as you search for missing power stars for your new friends, the lumas. The gameplay and 
 levels are superbly designed, and the controls are probably the best for the Wii. If you've been 
 looking for a game that has nearly perfect control, get this game. Also, the challenge is also 
 just right. Not too hard, not too easy. Top that.
  
  After playing the game for only 5 days and beat the game, I can say this game has every right to 
 be game of the year. Its better than any Mario game released to this day. I literaily cried because 
 I'd never played a Mario game as good as this one in years. Don't pass this awesome game up, please. 
 You'll be missing out on the greatest Mario game ever. I cried tears of joy after I beat this game, 
 and its not hard to see why.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smeghead83
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Well here it is, the wait is over and what can i say about this game... well in one word "Breathtaking"... in 
 two words "Very Breathtaking"... and in three words..."Game of the year"... well thats four words 
 but i would be shocked if anything managed to beat this.
  
  You play as Mario... i know shocking isn't it, well you start off heading to Princesses Peach's 
 castle for the star festival, and who shows up to kidnap the princes... thats right Bowser (you 
 would think after 20 years of failed attempts he would of given up, but no... see kids if first 
 you don't succeed, keep trying and trying and trying....) :roll: .Well after a promising beginning 
 the game just delivers on every level you can think of, with an easy and fun control system that 
 is hands down the most responsive seen so far on the Wii, Mario Galaxy is a game that feels to 
 good to be true, pointing the Wii-remote to collect/fire star bits and shaking it to cause a spin 
 attack dont feel tacked on at all but as if this is what the console was made for. And considering 
 this is the best game on the Wii so far it looks like thats what its for.
  
  But what sets it apart from most platform games it that the platforms in this game are in fact 
 small planets in each galaxy (stage) each planet has its own gravity which lets players run around 
 them any which way they please, confusing and mind boggling at times its still fun non the less... and 
 blasting yourself across the areas to new planets just ever gets old.
  
  Theres just to much to say about this brilliant game... but if you have a Wii and want what could 
 be the best Mario game since the SNES ear then pick this up NOW.
  10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: naruto_myc
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  I have only given Zelda Ocarina of Time, Mario 64, Final Fantasy VII and God of War II perfect 
 10's in my view, but heres another one! The controls are great fun to use and the planets and the 
 way you go through the levels are amazing! The graphics hands down are the best on the wii so far, 
 the story is good but same as always Bowser comes, captures Peach and you have to save the da... 
 universe. Although it has that its still great i mean come on, who doesn't love Bowser capturing 
 Peach and Mario saving the day! The learning curve is quick, the difficulty differs with different 
 challenges in the game. The bosses are good old fashion 3 time hit and over which is classical 
 of course. Overall its all it's cracked up to be and more! Also this is my first review hope you 
 like it and if you have any questions then please send them and get this game and enjoy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankeyser
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  Sound: orchestraltastic.
  Graphics: Eye candylicious.
  Gameplay: Outstanding.
  Story: Who cares! It is a platformer.
  
  This game is so close to perfect it is hard to say 
 what is bad about it. There are some complants to be sure.
  One the camera is amazing 95 percent of the time. but the other5 percent of the time it just goes 
 the total wrong way. This can be corrected a lot of the time by pressing left or right on the d 
 pad to turn the camera or the c button and centering the camera behind your character but sometimes 
 the c button centers the camera infront of your character. I am not sure why this is done but even 
 if it is not a design flaw it is annoying at best. The problem comes when you can not center the 
 camera or turn the camera at all. Being that this problem only comes up a few times in the game 
 it is not a major flaw but it is still there.
  The only other problem with this game is the story. Because they need to just throw it out for 
 the most part. I really don't need it explained why mario is in space. It is a super mario game? 
 The guy eats mushrooms and gains lives, shoots fire out of his hand and can jump higher than an 
 olympian... And for a plumber i have only seen him do plumbing in 2 games? So why do I even need 
 any explination of him all the sudden being in space and able to breathe ect?
  The cinimatics are a vast improvent over sunshines but are still totally uneven just get me into 
 the game because that is where this title really shines!
  It took me about 35 hours to collect all the stars, unlock luigi and get the final ending. That 
 is pretty good for a platformer! The best part about it is I am still playing the game is I still 
 want to go back and play some of my favorite levels. 
  Many of the levels it is just fun to goof around with the gravity. On one of the early levels you 
 will enconter a planet that is shaped like a hallow five point star. I suggest jumping off this 
 star from all different directions and watching as the gravity pulles Mario around in all kinds 
 of ways until he finally lands back on the star.
  Just playing with the gravity was fun. I wasted a lot of time with "hmmm I wonder what would happen 
 if I long jump off the planet right there" moments.
  This is a platform lovers dream come true and good for casuals to. The first 50 or so stars are 
 really easy to attain. After that some of the challanges and jumps that have to be made require 
 perfect and precise timing that hardcore gamers from old will die for. You have to constantly plan 
 ahead calculating your next jump before you have even landed your last one.
  YOU WILL DIE!
  There is no gamer out there that will don't die in this game. Some of the challenges are so hard 
 that you are going to die during this game. it has been one of my complaints of the wii's cataloge, 
 i never died during metriod prime 3 or zelda twillight princes. And while dying as a gamer is the 
 worst thing it gives you that "oh yeah! i am a gaming god" feeling when you do beat the obstical. 
 So for ever time I died missing a jump saying, "what is myimoto on drugs again, this is level is 
 just annoyingly hard" the next moment when I conquered the level I would be saying, "man I can't 
 wait to try that level again."
  So platform lovers crank up your wii's! this is the best platformer since banjoe kazooie! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burter16
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, Mario Galaxy is a fantastic game. As a stand alone title, it would surely be 
 one of the most fun games in several months, and up there with Twilight Princess as the best of 
 the best available for the Wii. 
  
  Right away, Super Mario Galaxy feels just like Mario 64. You collect stars, unlock new worlds, 
 and go on special missions to collect more stars, all the while travelling through space to rescue 
 the princess and defeat Bowser. There are some new characters, like the lumas, and some interesting 
 new worlds, but I couldn't help feeling like there should be more. The music is almost all remixed 
 classic tracks, the bosses and enemies have mostly all been seen before. The basic gameplay is 
 a mirror image of Mario 64. It feels more like a Mario 64 expansion than a brand new original title. 
 Perhaps I'm being too hard on it, so let me explain what I thought made this game great.
  
  The gravity and physics are the first thing that really set this game apart from other platform 
 games. It's incredibly inventive and fun, but never tedious or frustrating. I never found myself 
 wondering where to go next or had any trouble figuring out the puzzles. Super Mario Galaxy is by 
 no means a difficult game. I suppose the target audience has to be wide enough to appeal to everyone, 
 and it succeeds well at that. As a veteran gamer, I was rarely challenged, but this didn't really 
 deter me from wanting to keep going. 
  
  I really enjoyed the new costumes that give mario special powers, such as the bee, and boo costume. 
 There are plenty of galaxies to explore as well, each with a unique theme. From a ghost castle 
 to a swampy galaxy, the scenery is constantly changing. 
  
  As far as controls go, vast improvements have been made over the 64 Mario adventure. Moves like 
 the wall jump are much much easier to perform now. The camera angles also work well with the action 
 most of the time, which was really a massive flaw in Mario 64 (you can't really blame them, Mario 
 64 was one of the first true 3d platformers) . The game makes good use of the Wii's motion controls, 
 but never becomes overly complex or confusing. 
  
  In the graphics department, Super Mario Galaxy breaks no new boundaries. The style and animations 
 are fitting, but not breathtaking by any means. The Wii has never claimed to be a revolutionary 
 graphics powerhouse though. 
  
  Overall, Nintendo has produced yet another guaranteed classic, which appeals to gamers as a truly 
 enjoyable experience. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pianistkaida
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  If you liked the previous Mario games like Mario Sunshine and Mario 64, then you'll love this one. 
 With numerous stages and levels to play, this will keep you occupied for a long time. I think it's 
 the best WII game out so far, and it's really fun to play. The story might be a little bland, but 
 the gameplay is awesome. Only thing that bothers me, is that the graphics look like Super Mario 
 Sunshines, and haven't progressed well enough for a "next gen system". I have a PS3, and going 
 from that to this, the graphics are SO previous gen. : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koeramco
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 11:09 pm PT
Review:  super mario galaxy one can't describe in few words its greatness
  how it brings back the good old days of super mario 64
  how well it intergrates the wii control
 
  the gameplay is amazing
  the nostalgia and the variety of each galaxy design
  the graphics are very detailed
  if you felt a let down from super mario sunshine like i did then 
 go buy this game and it will renew your interest and confidence in the mario series
  if you have a wii go buy this game 
  you won't regret buying this game unless you absolutely 
 hate mario
  if your new to the mario series its never to late to try it out
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is epic and the Wii earned it for being a good system! I missed the old Mario 64. It 
 was an instant classic and now they made this work of art and made galaxy! The graphics are good 
 and look wonderful, the sound is just cool it makes you wanna sit back and listen to it over and 
 over again, the music is fantastic! The gameplay is addicting I love playing it so much. Mario 
 is is just a heroic as his first N64 Super Mario 64 release! Mario you haven't failed us yet have 
 you. The game deserve a lot of credit it turned out to be a epic game for the Wii and this will 
 boost the sales for the Wii 100%! More good grades for Mario and his Wii. Super Mario Galaxy is 
 worth the wait and money you spent to get the game it gets a 10/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kansasdude2009
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy represents Nintendo's leap into the next generation. Excellent production values, 
 revolutionary level design, and solid gameplay make for an experience not seen anywhere else. Super 
 Mario Galaxy can be compared to neither Super Mario 64 nor Super Mario Bros. 3; it is its own beast. 
 Play it, love it, beat it, remember it. Super Mario Galaxy is the next step in platforming. 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The Good:
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
    Fantastic sound design and even better music creates Nintendo's greatest achievement in the 
 sound department ever. 
    Outstanding level design that begs you to continue playing. 
    Sticks to the fundamental rules of platforming to create the most solid gameplay experience in 
 recent memory.
    Simplistic graphical design allows for advanced effects that instills a sense of awe upon the 
 player. 
    Good difficulty - mostly in later levels.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The Bad:
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
    Swimming controls do not reflect the controls of above-water gameplay and is all-around frustrating. 
 
    Very little camera control sometimes makes for a frustrating experience.
    Worst "hub" area of any 3D Mario title. 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Gameplay: 9.5
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Mario games are always about the gameplay and Galaxy is no different. This is where Mario sticks 
 to his roots and makes for a system with so few flaws, it's daunting. So much is possible with 
 so few buttons thanks to an amazing linked-button system used in both Mario 64 and Sunshine. The 
 "A" button is the only button that is really needed, but combine it with several increments of 
 the analog stick and add the "Z" button in the mix and Mario has quite a few jumps to make! It's 
 just as stunning today as it has always been. 
  
  What's new to the mix is a spin attack and the shooting of star-bits. Both add a level of strategic 
 value to the decisions you make in your platforming and both are well implemented. The best addition 
 to the gameplay department is the small boost Mario gets when he doesn't quite make a jump. The 
 game steps in and gives you a slight step-boost when you land on an edge so that gameplay is not 
 interrupted. This decision makes of a much less frustrating experience as the flow of the game 
 continues flawlessly. Motion sensing controls are equally impressive. Each one works rather well 
 with a few slips depending on how crazy you get with the controller. My only complaint is the "spin 
 to shoot fire" gameplay that comes with the fire flower. It becomes tpp repetitive. 
  
  What doesn't work out so well is the swimming based gameplay. Normally, good games try to keep 
 a solid experience in different environments by mimicking the foundation of its gameplay in all 
 areas. Galaxy fails to do this with swimming. Mario is quick to move but slow to turn. You will 
 find yourself constantly overshooting your destination and running into a wall and then not being 
 able to correct the mistake. Things fair much better when you have a shell to ride on as your maneuverability 
 drastically increases, but even then there are some problems. 
  
  Camera is another small annoyance. While the space environments are near perfection, enclosed areas 
 will see the camera go off in a random direction and not fit where you are trying to go at all. 
 This happens so rarely that it is a minuscule problem, but it is still present.
  
  Level design is what separates Galaxy from its predecessors. Gravity plays a large roll in the 
 completion of levels and separates this Mario game from all of the others. The open space environments 
 let the game designers go absolutely wild with what they want to see. While each level will fit 
 to a theme, what you will see is never definite. This is the best part of Galaxy, but it is also 
 one of the parts I can not speak of as I would ruin what makes Mario Galaxy so good. Just know 
 that the last 2-3 "domes" create some of the best gameplay experiences gaming has ever seen. 
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Difficulty: Just Right
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The game starts out mind-numbingly easy. The first 20 stars are creative in design but purposefully 
 linear, short, and easy. Remember that a 3 year old has to be able to play it, and you shouldn't 
 have a problem. Once you reach your 30th star you will see a decent jump in difficulty. After your 
 40th - 50th star, things will really start to ramp up until you are continuously dieing on certain 
 challenges. Just know that the race to 60 stars isn't as hard as some would like. The marathon 
 to 120 stars, however, is a different story. You will be challenged by Super Mario Galaxy. 
  
  Bosses are continuously epic but overly predictable and easier than they seem. You will enjoy 
 them nonetheless, but the final battle will disappoint several. Having only 3 health bars creates 
 more urgency, but coins are quite frequent and "double my health" mushrooms are easily attainable 
 before most bosses (even the final one) . If you want to make the game harder, refuse to get the 
 mushrooms that double your health and go for the hardcore route to success: beating the level with 
 only 3 health. 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Graphics: 9.5
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Super Mario Galaxy boasts the best used graphical effects of any Wii game. Huge environments, 
 all with eye-popping texture and color make Super Mario Galaxy leaps and bounds ahead of any other 
 Wii game. The catch? Not everything is polished to its maximum. Nintendo of Japan did a fantastic 
 job on deciding what mattered when you looked at something. Super Mario Galaxy always looks fantastic 
 and best of all, there is hardly any, if any at all, slowdown. Super Mario Galaxy will constantly 
 impress you with visual style. 
  
  The animations of Mario, Rosolina, and, most of all, Bowser are downright jaw-dropping. You will 
 be blown away by how good Bowser looks in this game! I just wanted to see him more often! 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Sound: 10
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Super Mario Galaxy has one of the best soundtracks in the gaming industry. Music switches up all 
 over the place and never becomes stagnant. Never before has there been such variety of moods created 
 in one level. Music will switch from epic to silly to creepy in the matter of minutes. Koji Kondo 
 and his team has outdone themselves!
  
  The overall sound design is also absurdly flawless. Everything you see will make a sound: The fish 
 in the ocean, the crackling of fire, the squeak of Mario's shoes on glass, the clinking of bouncing 
 star-bits, the wind through the grass, the rain falling down, and everything in between. 
  
  Voice overs are my only complaint, not because they don't have them, but because what they 
 do have isn't always a perfect fit with the mood. 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Overall: 9.5
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Super Mario Galaxy holds up the tradition of fantastic Mario titles. While the production values 
 have been ramped up and the level design is literally out of this world, the classic gameplay has 
 returned. Super Mario Galaxy may take you back to your childhood of playing Mario titles, but this 
 is a whole new Mario. Nintendo has created yet another masterpiece to add to its collection, and 
 this title will forever be in ours. Super Mario Galaxy will be cemented in the minds of those who 
 play it, so, sit back and enjoy the best gaming has to offer with Super Mario Galaxy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiseWarrior101
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  One of the first games I got was Super Mario 64. It remains today as my favorite game ever. The 
 huge worlds were immersing and expertly designed, and made you want to come back for more. Super 
 Mario Sunshine was fun, but didn't properly keep what Super Mario 64 started. So years later when 
 the next generation Mario game is released, you could only hope it got better instead of continuing 
 going down. Super Mario Galaxy shoots Mario sky high.
  
  The game is centered around the classic story of Peach getting kidnapped by Bowser. However, SMG 
 introduces a new character, Rosalina, who will help you through your journey. The central hub of 
 the game is Rosalina's observatory. There are several domes, each of which house a few galaxys. 
 By completing 1 dome, you unlock another. There are also other way of accessing galaxys, but this 
 is the main way.
  
  Since this game has so many great things, I'll start with the only 2 complaints I have. The first 
 is the lack of big planets. None of the galaxys are bigger than a regular world in either of the 
 previous installments in the series. While SMG makes up in quantity, I would have liked some of 
 the huge worlds that made my Mario experience so enjoyable. My last, and less major issue is with 
 the camera. Each Mario game so far has suffered from poor camera control, and this one is no exception. 
 Since you'll be walking upsidown and sideways on many planets, it would have been nice to have 
 the camera follow you. It does sometimes, but doesn't always keep up with the action.
  
  Now on to the wonderful things, and this list is a long one. First of all this game is incredibly 
 addicting. You won't want to put it down. Each of the 40+ galaxys is a superb addition, and unique. 
 Lots of detailed, vibrant environments help to make this game a blast to play. The 14 bosses require 
 you to think about how to defeat them, you can't just mash a button.
  
  Each normal galaxy has 3 regular stars, with 1 hidden and 2 Prankster Comet stars. I'll explain 
 about those. There are 4 different kinds-Fast Foes, which speeds up your enemies, Daredevil Comet, 
 which gives you only 1 health to perform an objective, usually defeating a boss, Cosmic Comet, 
 which pits you against a shadow version of your self in a race through that world, and Purple Comet, 
 which appear after you've beaten Bowser. 
  
  A Mario game wouldn't be complete without lots of awesome power-ups, and Super Mario Galaxy has 
 a lot of them. Bee Mushrooms give you the ability to fly, Boo Mushrooms the ability to go through 
 objects. Other, more traditional items, include the Fire Flower, and the Ice Flower, which allows 
 you to walk on water. Overall all the little things Nintendo has popped in make a huge difference.
 
  
  Score: (Not an average)
  Gameplay: 10
  Fun: 10
  Sound: 10
  Graphics: 9.5
  Replay Value: 9.5
  Total: 10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Messer_Partei
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  First off, I'd like to say that IGN said the most profound analogy I've ever heard regarding a 
 videogame: Super Mario 64=3d Super Mario Bros 1 because of their revolution and simplicity, Super 
 Mario Sunshine=3d Super Mario Bros 2 because both were okay but didn't live up as a sequal, Super 
 Mario Galaxy=3d Super Mario Bros 3 because they are both the best platformers of the mario franchise 
 of both 2d and 3d respectively.
  
  Now onto the review:
  
  Graphics 10/10:
  Now, Mario games are normally quite simple graphically, but somehow this game just makes a giant 
 leap graphically over the last games and every other game on the wii to date. The textures of metal, 
 grass, and giant apples (...) look prerendered, and yet they aren't. The water is so much better 
 than sunshine, and sunshine was ALL ABOUT the water. But what stands out the most is not the technicalities 
 of graphics but the art. You really don't know what you will see or how it will look until you 
 see it... and you will see everything. This game has so many random things in it that it puts the 
 last level of Banjo Tooie to shame (yes, the one with the floating garbage can) .
  
  Sound 10/10
  The other technical score of sound and music is not on par with the graphics, but 
 that's only because the graphics are exceptional and the music is only 'perfect'. The music in 
 this game is very varied, and seems to orchestrate the very best of the classic mario songs into 
 literal epic symphonies. It fits perfectly since you are flying through deep space.
  
  Gameplay 11/10
  This is the reason I am giving this game a 10. I wouldn't give Ocarina of Time, 
 Super Mario World (my favourite 2d mario) , or even super mario 64 a 10. The reason the gameplay 
 is so good is that EVERY single star in this game (except the unlockable missions of collecting 
 coins after the game) is different. The original 3 of every major galaxy is just 3 giant logical 
 obstacle courses incorporating a completely individual style of play for each and every one. The 
 miniature galaxies that have mostly 1 star are no exception; these galaxies are so much fun and 
 varied to beat. It saves your highscore in coins as well, so you have something to shoot for in 
 everything. This is one of those games where you will be so involved with that you will begin to 
 have things like 'you're favorite level'. I have mine, It's 'Battlerock'... for now. Just imagine 
 swimming in a sphere of water. There is no real ocean floor, if you swim to the bottom you'll just 
 be on the other side of the planet. Or imagine going into first person view and seeing all other 
 planets at complete random angles with situations happening on all sides. This game is literally 
 a gaming revolution. You will not find a game like this anywhere else.
  
  Value 10/10
  It's that kind of game that is easy to play but very hard to master, and almost cut out perfectly 
 for those of us (me included) that like to play through the game on speed runs. Some of the levels 
 are so much fun that you will want to go back and play them just to beat your old score, or some 
 random person on the internet's score. I can already see this game wasting a good chunk of my time 
 even after I seem to 'master' it.
  
  Tilt 10/10
  This is the best game on the wii and warrants one to buy one. I haven't seen a game like this come 
 out in too long. It may be because I'm not interested in games as much as I use to when I was younger 
 in the days when I would find all 201 gold bananas in Dk64 or play the star world in super mario 
 world a dozen times, but a lot of games have improved so well in graphics and stuff that sounds 
 cool on paper that it completely masks what makes a good game godly. Mario Galaxy does everything 
 right and almost nothing wrong. My only issue is that overall, the game is easier than sunshine, 
 and I'm the type that likes to get frustrated over a game. I mastered FZero GX, to give you the 
 idea. But this can be forgiven since beating a game like this doesn't mean it's mastered, it just 
 means you fit the benchmark.
  
  The idiots you may see that say this game is below a 9 want attention. This game is literally capable 
 of a 10. That sums it up; go obtain this game in any way you possibly can and screw up you life 
 by getting addicted to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savetherocks
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Let's take a look at Mario, the 20-year gaming empire that has conquered all others. This series 
 started with the classic Mario Bros. on the NES, which was a classic to please all gamers. Today, 
 Nintendo has taken a step further with Super Mario Galaxy, the best Wii game in the GALAXY (haha) . 
 The game starts off with an invitation to Peach's castle, as most Mario games do, and is signed 
 at the bottom by Princess Peach. When Mario gets to the castle, as with most Mario games, Bowser 
 arrives to mess things up. With his minions and his fleet of flying ships, he uproots the castle 
 from the ground with Princess Peach and Mario in it. They float off into space, where Mario is 
 ejected by none other than everyone's favorite Koopa Witch, Kammy Koopa. Mario is sent flying through 
 space, where he lands on a space observatory that was built to orbit the universe using the power 
 of "Power Stars." However, the Power Stars have been stolen and the observatory can no longer progress 
 throughout the universe. The inhabitants of the observatory, star shaped little munchkins called 
 Lumas, and their leader, Rosalina, (who looks just like Peach with different clothes) want you 
 to help retrieve to Power Stars and restore power to the observatory. You then use the domes located 
 throughout the observatory to launch off to planets and perform missions to obtain the Power Stars, 
 Super Mario Sunshine-style. This game, without a doubt, posses the best graphics ever packed into 
 a Wii game. Not only that, the controls, soundtracks, gameplay, and replay value are astounding 
 as well. If you ever find yourself with a Wii, 50 bucks, and nothing to do, this game is definitely 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbturner1438
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is a thing of beauty. It is the third 3D Mario game and I think the best one 
 yet. The game boasts Nintendo's most impressive graphics to date. The game-play combines a linear 
 aspect from the side scrolling Mario games where you're constantly moving towards your goal and 
 changing scenery ,but has the freedom of the 3D games. The use of gravity is out of this world 
 (no pun intended) . Costumes and some enemies are in 3D for the first time and it's great. The galaxies 
 and the planets are fresh and at the same time have what you expect from a Mario game. It's the 
 same case when it comes to enemies and bosses. You would be a fool not to give this game a chance. 
 So play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fon1988
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario has been around since the mid 1980's and ever since then, the franchise has thrown 
 AAA hits at us every 5 or 6 years. With Mario in the year 2007, the face of gaming has changed, 
 but has the world stepped away from the plumber that revoloutionized the gaming world? The answer, 
 fortunatly, is HELL NO! 
  
  Super Mario Galaxy is the seventh core Mario title and with games such as Super Mario 3 and Super 
 Mario 64 under it's belt, the standard was set pretty high for this one and with all honesty, it 
 lives up to the Mario name and even goes beyond our expectations. 
  
  If you've played any Mario game for the past 20 years, you'll know just how things work now. Bowser 
 comes up with a crazy idea, captures Peach and hides her until Mario can epically battle him at 
 the end. This time, things are are a little different, but not by much. Every 100 years, a comet 
 passes over the Mushroom Kingdom and the people celebrate with a giant festival. During this festival, 
 Mario shows up at her castle after recieving a letter from Peach. Before he can make his way inside 
 though, Bowser and a fleet of airships attack and destroy alot of the courtyard and surrounding 
 area, all while freezing some of the Toads. Mario can't just sit back and let this happen so he 
 goes after Peach, but he's too late. Bowser sucks up the entire castle and blasts off into space. 
 Mario would have been right on his trail but a Magikoopa manages to hit him with his classic blast 
 and sends him into the depths of the space.
  
  From there, the gameplay begins and shines in every single aspect imaginable. After a quick prologue 
 galaxy and the introduction of Princess Rosalina, you will end up in the games HUB world, the Space 
 Observatory. Now this place isn't as big as Isle Delfino, but it does the game justice and gives 
 a decent break from the gameplay every so often. Inside this Observatory there are multiple domes 
 that all feature multiple galaxies. The domes normally consist of a few full sized galaxies, a 
 couple small ones, and a boss battle. The galaxies are absouloutly amazing. From the level design, 
 to the graphics, I have nothing negative to say about any of them. Early on you will discover the 
 unique gravity features that will stick with you throughout a large portion of the game and once 
 you get used to them, you will feel right at home. The levels all feel fresh and entertaining but 
 they never stray too far from the formula that has worked for Nintendo for over two decades. The 
 game controls almost exactly like Mario 64, but they have been tweaked and feature some of the 
 new moves from Mario Sunshine. The long jump has returned and when done on a small planetoid, you 
 will fly all the way around it and the experience of that small, simple move gives you one of the 
 most amazing experiences in all of gaming history. It's truley a sight to be hold. 
  The galaxies play out in a number of ways, none of them faltering, all of them equally fun and 
 engaging. Sometimes you will be on small planets, defying all logic, walking upside down, left 
 side up, etc. These are the main attractions and Nintendo pulled them off beautifully by coming 
 up with the most creative level design I have ever seen, and I have been playing games since the 
 80's. If there was a "variety meter", than this game is turned up all the way because almost everywhere 
 you visit will have a new and engaging level design, atmosphere, and a new way to play. Nothing 
 feels rehashed or thrown in, everything from the blue pull stars, the launch stars, the power ups 
 or the Wii-Controlls specific levels feels amazing. You have your basic Mario levels that you are 
 used to from Mario 64 and Sunshine all with the new feeling of Galaxy which pretty much perfects 
 any faults that the first two 3-D games had. The new, planetoid type gameplay feels fresh and orignal 
 and offeres some of the best gaming you will ever get to play. Sometimes levels will be played 
 out half-and-half, where you will have some big areas mixed with tiny areas. Bosses are a nice 
 treat to any Mario game and this one isn't lacking in the slightest. Sometimes the bosses aren't 
 as strong as they could have been but the game makes up for it with the Daredevil missions that 
 really heat up the battle. 
  What's funny about the camera is that it basically controls itself for most of the game. I remember 
 when 3-D games were first invented, having a camera that could be fully controlled seemed to be 
 what everyone just had to have. Now, some 10 years later, we are back to auto-camera and it works 
 almost flawlessly. If there is a time where you want to move the camera, you sometimes can with 
 the use of the D-Pad. On very rare occasions you may want to move the veiw but you cant, but the 
 auto camera usually quickly makes up for it. Also, you can sometimes center the camera by pressing 
 the C button, so overall, the camera is as close to perfection as ever before. 
  Overall, the mix of old and new platforming merges into a perfect blend that creates the most amazing 
 experience that is available on any console ever made. What was once feared to be a step too far 
 from the core Mario experience has become a fear that was completley unfounded and Nintendo has 
 proved that gameplay will always prevail over any other aspect of a game.
  
  Since the launch of the Wii, pretty much every game that has come out on the system has looked 
 like it could have easily been played on the Gamecube, and people have every right to be skeptical 
 about this games graphics. I can say without a doubt that these are truley next-gen graphics and 
 could never be reproduced on any of the past consoles. They are so smooth and perfect that one 
 could argue that it looks as great as a 360 game. Maybe not in textures, polygon count or what 
 not, but the art design really does the game justice and is absoloutly incredible. Everything that 
 you encounter has a certain atmospheric touch to it that just hasn't been done before and that 
 alone makes the graphics stand out more than any other Wii game before it. This game has set the 
 bar for all future Wii games. 
  
  The Soundtrack is spectacular. There is no comapring this to any other Mario game before it. So 
 many of the songs are orchestrated and give every stage the feeling that an epic movie delivers. 
 The song when you fight Bowser is incredible as well as the re-made music from past Mario games. 
 Mario fans are sure to be humming along to old and new tunes the whole way through. Nintendo's 
 last big adventure game, Twilight Princess, was criticized for not having orchestrated music and 
 Nintendo must have realized this because the music is stunning and oustanding.
  
  For the first time in Mario's 3-D history, Galaxy has an added Co-op mode that, while simple, makes 
 the experience of the game so much better. We all have people that come in and watch us play games, 
 it's something that has been going on for years. Now, if you have a second Wii-remote, you can 
 turn it on and your friend can help you by poiting at the screen and performing a number of actions. 
 If they decide to click on an enemy it will stun it and make the kill much easier for Mario. If 
 they click on the fat plumber, it will make him jump and if timed right can be the most useful 
 trick in the game. Also, if you target star bits with the other remote, you will collect them which 
 takes that off the players shoulders. 
  
  Overall, Mario Galaxy is Mario, Platforming and Nintendo at their best and it's a real treat considering 
 the Wii is plagued with mini-game collections that attempt to show off the Wii-remote. If you want 
 a game to show off your awesome new Wii, buy this one. If you want a fun, engaging game that will 
 leave you breathless and amazed, buy this one. If you... etc... JUST BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Egotte
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  The last Mario game that made me go out and get a new Nintendo system was Super Mario World. In 
 the days of the Nintendo 64, I was more into PC games and felt that the cartridge-based system 
 at the time was way behind the times. I got a chance to play Mario Galaxy several weeks ago and 
 realized that there's only one reason to not buy this game, and that's only if you do not own a 
 Wii. If you don't and you're one of the thousands or millions of people who still want one but 
 can't find it, this is the FIRST game you should buy.
  
  Super Mario Galaxy's presentation and gameplay reinvent the standard platform game. I feel like 
 I'm in an M. C. Esher drawing, and that's a lot of the fun! The game is HUGE, expansive, and the 
 smaller levels keep you interested longer. You're always going to be curious what type of crazy 
 3D world you'll catapult to next. It's fun to take risks in this game, whether it's jumping off 
 a ledge and landing upside-down on another island/planet or just to goof around to see what types 
 of stunts Mario can pull off. 
  
  I feel like Nintendo found the perfect balance and usage for the Wiimote and Nunchuk with this 
 game, too. Just about anyone can pick it up and get comfortable with the game in about 30 min. 
 or so. I guess what I like best is the fact that because you're often learning to run upside down 
 or sideways jump, etc., the game presents some great ways to get you attuned to this at the beginning. 
 
  
  I don't have a single complaint about the game. There are minor camera angle flaws here and there, 
 but overall, the presentation, music, graphics, and gameplay are among the best I've ever seen 
 in a video game, period.
  
  On the day Assassin's Creed launched, I saw a man that appeared to be about 30ish having a hard 
 time deciding on which game to buy between "Creed" and "Galaxy". He cracked a tiny smile and picked 
 Super Mario Galaxy to be his choice of the day, week, etc., asking them to put his Assassin's Creed 
 pre-order back on the shelves. I asked him why he chose "Galaxy" over the other and his response 
 then too made me smile. He told me that photo-realistic games come and go, that we'll play through 
 them and forget about them within a month or so, but Mario games are the ones we'll still play 
 20 years later, just as we're still playing the original titles now. 
  
  Nearly 30 years after his creation, Super Mario is stronger than ever. And he doesn't need assault 
 rifles, chainsaws, or a historical premise to make his games fun to play. Super Mario Galaxy is 
 a title that you'll likely have in your collection for good. Welcome to the reinvention of the 
 Nintendo platform game (or any platform game for that matter) , Super Mario Galaxy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stonetowerghost
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  In 1996, the world had a taste of what Nintendo could accomplish. Through a burst of creativity, 
 Miyamoto lead the production on Super Mario 64. It became one of the greatest games of all time 
 and is what gamers associate with the term 3D Platformer. 
  
  However, despite the potential of the past, dark days were approaching. Isle Delfino was shrouded 
 in darkness, as was the game it was in. Sunshine wound up as a huge disappointment for those who 
 expected Mario 64 all over again. 
  
  The skeptics over Galaxy can get over it and take my advice  There is no better decision right 
 now than to purchase this game. It is without a doubt, the most accessible, creative game I have 
 ever played.
  
  The story begins with a cool cutscene involving more of Bowser's insane plans and total devastation 
 in The Mushroom Kingdom. Sound familiar? Mario games have never made the story their base, but 
 if it were, there would be a problem. The conflict just isn't compelling. Does that make it a bad 
 game? No. Mario has never been about the story, but it would have been nice for a cutscene skip 
 option. 
  
  The pure parts of the gem is in the gameplay, and trust me, it's not all about jumping on a bunch 
 of spheres. Gravity plays a huge role in the game, and it works perfectly. It makes for great puzzles, 
 ceiling action, and a bit of nausea. Some of the puzzles (I won't spoil) were the greatest and 
 most creative I have ever played. 
  
  The motion controls are present, but they are far from overdone. You shake he remote to do Mario's 
 spin attack, and twisting the remote is used to steer in some racing sequences. The pointer is 
 used to collect the tiny star shards that are scattered all over the universe, and it's nice to 
 be able to gather them without touching them. The controls fit perfectly into the game, and raise 
 the bar for the Wii's capability to be fresh and fun beyond the other consoles. 
  
  The boss battles are barely repeated into redundancy (unlike Sunshine) , and stand as some of the 
 coolest parts of the game. Naturally, the big excitement revolves around the 3 fights with Bowser, 
 but Nintendo has managed to bring some new ideas to the table. Everything fits into the game without 
 a problem.
  
  The levels are not just space spheres, but also include classic levels that are more like worlds 
 with a few planets in the air. Nintendo was careful to mix things up, but I have to be honest  
 I like the blasting Sphere-based levels far better. Once you blast into space, your path is pre-set. 
 You never have to remember where to go in the vast galaxies, the game does it for you and it just 
 relieves so much potential frustration. Also, you never get the feeling that you're rushing back 
 into the same levels for extra stars. The game makes sure that you enter new areas for each mission 
 to keep the feeling fresh. The level of surprise toward your next mission is also more suspenseful 
  Unlike Mario 64 where you're likely to run into a star or two before the end of the mission. 
 
  
  The water levels can be frustrating  mainly because swimming combined with a spherical planet 
 can feel awkward. Fortunately, the game ensures that the swimming areas are easy to understand, 
 and the fact that you have more air underwater helps. 
  
  Extra features are the addition of Luigi and the prankster comets. You must rescue Luigi in a certain 
 level, and then he will volunteer to find some stars for you. The problem is, he will find a star, 
 but wind up getting stuck in the level somewhere. You'll have to rescue his cowardly ass (who get's 
 stuck on a 6 foot high house and cries?) and he'll give you a star. The prankster comets involve 
 challenges associated with previously collected stars. You will have to beat certain levels in 
 a set amount of time, beat a boss with only 1 HP (Ouch) , and deal with extra fast enemies. These 
 lead to creative ideas that compel gamers to repeat a few missions for extra stars. 
  
  The graphics are amazing. I have never seen a better looking game on a Nintendo console. They are 
 colorful, smooth, and highly detailed in ways that make me wonder why the Wii doesn't already have 
 games that look this good. The galaxy backgrounds could be compared to the beautiful space of Metroid 
 Prime 3, but the actual game is like a flowing cartoon. Mario also has a distinct bluish glow around 
 his body. It's weird, because the game never explains the glow, but it honestly adds to the space 
 theme in ways that don't need explanation. I can't describe the graphics in ways that do it justice, 
 and screen shots won't help either. You need to play the game, go through the levels, and marvel 
 at the baddies to truly realize what I mean. 
  
  The soundtrack is a good mix of classics and some new tunes. Unlike the music in Sunshine (That 
 hotel/casino tune pissed me off) , everything in galaxy feels fresh and new. You will hear tracks 
 in that game that bring back nostalgia in great ways. It never feels overwhelming, in fact, it's 
 one of the coolest aspects of the game. Trust me, Mario 64 fans will shout with glee when they 
 enter the first of Bowser's 3 levels and hear its tune. 
  The soundtrack's new tunes are incredibly engrossing, and I found myself actually waiting to go 
 into a new area just so I could hear my favorite part of certain tracks. I was particularly fond 
 of Good Egg Galaxy's tune. However, I found a couple of tracks a little annoying. The main lobby 
 (ala Peach's castle and Ilse Delfino) has music that would be okay, if it weren't for the suspicion 
 that the baby stars were dancing (swaying back and forth, actually) in sync with the overly cutesy 
 tune. Also, the music that played during fights with Bowser dredged back memories of FF7's Sephiroth 
  he just doesn't belong in a Mario game.
  
  The game is flawless, there's simply no way around it. You must play it (and get everything) to 
 understand its potential and the lengths that Miyamoto must have gone through to make this good, 
 and to release it for the holidays. But in another 5 years, I hope he'll give us 240 stars to collect 
 instead. 
  
  Actual Score - Perfect 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfIsLoose
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about Super Mario Galaxy my expectations where high, but once I started playing 
 it, my expectations were exceeded! The gameplay is amazing, combining the old-school platforming 
 we've come to know and love with the innovative controls of the Wii. The graphics are amazing, 
 being the best in the entire series. The music is great; there are new tracks along with new versions 
 of old favorites. There are many types of levels, ranging from straight-up platforming to Super 
 Monkey Ball-esque courses.
  There are many different powerups in this game, classics such as Fire and Star Mario, and new ones 
 like the Ice and Bumblebee Mario. If you enjoyed the slide minigame in Super Mario 64, you'll be 
 glad to hear that it's back in the form of a manta ray-surfing game. Many of the classic Mario 
 enemies are back in this game, mainstays such as Goombas and Piranha Plants, and returning ones 
 like the Monty Moles and Magikoopas. The only problem with the game is that the save the princess 
 from Bowser storyline is getting old, but at least Nintendo's adding in other storyline's to go 
 along with it.
  To sum it all up, SMG is a great game that won't just please hardcore Mario fans, but everyone 
 who owns a Wii.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow_Hokage
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Who doesn't like Mario? Every knows and loves the plumber of games. Mario made a huge impact with 
 his first releases, selling millions, and then revolutionized the gaming world by leading it into 
 3D with Super Mario 64. He came back in a good, solid fun platformer, Super Mario Sunshine. The 
 problem was... It wasn't new, or fresh, and people were disappointed in the groundbreaking plumber. 
 The same complaint does NOT fit Galaxy. While gravity mechanics, excellent platforming, and sheer 
 fun are not new, amrio combines them all and gives them his own element. 
  Puzzles are not the toughest you've found, but they are occasionally challenging, and they give 
 you a sense of accomplishment. Finding fragments of of hidden star in a sand pyramid that flows 
 back and forth, all while shifting gravity as well makes you just smile when you finish. Sunshines 
 puzzles, easy, hard, or otherwise left you going "-BLAM!-, Glad I dont have to do that again!", 
 while Galaxy's, even if they are hard, make you want to come back.
  The actual Gameplay resembles 64 with new moves, a variety of new objectives, and costumes. These 
 cosumes belong to a few select galaxies each, and have several effects. A boo suit lets you float 
 and go through walls, a bee suit lets you fly and climb honey walls, a black and red mario suit 
 lets you fly, and Ice and Fire power come back from other games. The ONLY frustating element in 
 the ENTIRE game is the spring suit in the toy galaxy, just because it's controls are so clunky.
 
  You need 60 power stars to finish the game, and there are 120 possible. If you get all 120, you 
 can play through the game, with a special treat! If you want to know, read the end of my review, 
 and while I dont have currently (I only have 51 stars, including the hidden ones) , my friend and 
 the Gamespot employees do.
  The game does'nt use many of the Wii motion controls, but when it does it comes in the form of 
 mini-games. These include star-bowl riding, ray-surfing, and scooting a bubble around a level using 
 the wii-mote while mario rides inside. These are INCREDIBLY fun.
  The graphics are the best on the Wii yet, and it all comes together in what can only be described 
 as an updated mario style. Sound includes several of your old Mario favorites, and some new ones, 
 but dont worry, they follow the Mario spirit much better than some of the ones in Sunshine did, 
 and they all are on at the exact right moment.
  
  You will love Mario's latest adventure, do not rent this, BUY IT.
  
  (If you obtain all 120 
 stars, you can play through the game again as luigi, with slightly better jump, and different sound 
 effects) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Golum7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  First of all, I wasn't thinking that it would be a great game, just a normal 3D Mario game, not 
 better than the Mario 64 or Sunshine. Well, my surprise was a great one. For the first time in 
 Mario 3D history, controls are really easy. Maybe it's the Wii twist, or is it just that it is 
 responding well. Graphics are just what I expected, a nice looking game. The most better part of 
 it, it's the quality of the stages. They are really fun and not too hard (like those in Mario Sunshine...) . 
 3D controls are not as easy as a 2D scrolling action. That's what maked the 3D Mario less fun than 
 the classic 2D Mario. But in that Mario Galaxy, the difficulty level is really ajusted to the controls, 
 making it real fun to play, not too frustrating. I am really surprised about the overall quality 
 of the game. Nonetheless, I still hope that Nintendo will try to make a New Super Mario Bros on 
 the Wii, like they did on the DS. I miss the 2 players alternative action like on Mario 3, with 
 8 worlds and some innovative items. Still, Super Mario Galaxy is surprisingly good, and the multiplayer 
 co-op is a real nice idea! I recommend every Wii owner to buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadmeat59
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  This is one of the most amazing game's , i ever got. This game is great in every way . The graphics 
 are stunning . the music is breath taking . the game play is like something i never played before 
 . just when i thought everything has been done before this game shows me i am wrong.
  
  I cant think of one thing that makes this game bad. that is why i give it a 10 . it does everything 
 it set out to do . the game runs at great frame rates and never dips . it looks by far better then 
 any other wii game to date .
  
  no matter your age this game is just plane fun . if your looking for a great game this one is for 
 you. its one of the best games this gen for sure . great job nintendo .
  
  the game is climatic ! people have voices like never befor . you still have to hear but hearing 
 browser yelling in his deep voice is so cool . 
  
  
  the world are so cool . i never seen a game make levels like this one does . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _KwispY
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  Everyone set their expectations high for Super Mario Galaxy. In a year of few memoralble wii releases, 
 wii owners needed something epic to regain hope and faith in nintendo. This title delivers in that 
 aspect. SMG is the spiritual successor SM64. That in and of itself is a big title that SMG must 
 live up to. Does it do so? Qutie frankly yes. It captures the same charm of the mario universe 
 from the N64 days and reinvigorates it, while at the same time redefining it. This is the new standard 
 for platforming games. What makes this game so revolutionary? Is it the plethora of beautiful varied 
 galaxies sprawling across space? Perhaps it is the attention to detail given to each and every 
 character and object in the game? Maybe the orchestrated soundtrack and hypnotizes a player and 
 captures them in the nostalgia of Mario's best outings? You could be right with agrees to any and 
 all of these questions. However, the thing that truly makes this game revolutionary is the implementation 
 of gravity mechanics. With every landmass having its own relative strength of gravity, one will 
 never be bored finding new ways to experiment with gravity to see its effects on mario. Gravity 
 aspects are beautifully implemented into the game which leads to some of the most intuitive, some 
 times over the top level design one will have ever experienced. As aforementioned, the galaxies 
 are truly a great site to look at. While not totally a graphical explosion, the game uses enough 
 techniques to truly make it standout. It by no means is an ugly game. It is by far the best looking 
 game on the wii, and gives some ps3/pc/360 games a run for their money. However, nintendo proves 
 that you dont need ps3/pc/360 caliber graphics in order to make a perfect game. The gameplay is 
 what SMG is all about, and it delivers with little to no flaws. As for those little flaws... the 
 game is a bit on the easy side. At the same time, some of the stars though intuitive in design, 
 seem much easier to obtain than others. However, on the quest to 120 stars, one will not complain, 
 the SMG is the new standard in platforming, and will have the same impact on the gaming world as 
 SM64. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowfan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 4:28 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is a great game, it looks great the controls are fun thay trie to use the motion 
 controls as much as possible and in the whole game there is no staying on one planet for very long 
 because you can get in cannons and fire to another world. There are a lot of boss fight some are 
 way to easy but some are a bit hard. The story is the same as in the last couple of games but the 
 gameplay, looks, the diffrent worlds to see makes this game one of the best games of all time. the 
 best mario game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Broc_Samson
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  This game was amazing in every way. I've had it since launch day and I've gotten 87 stars I think... 
 anyway I haven't been this addicted to a Mario game... ever. I really have no complaints about 
 the game accept for the usual but minor platformer camera glitches but there isn't much you can 
 do about that. This game gets a 10 all across the board... okay the story made absolutely no sense 
 whatsoever but Super Mario isn't about plot... it's about jumping around and dressing up in Bee 
 outfits (I wish it was the raccoon instead : ( ) . 
  
  I didn't quite understand why they had so many "Super Mario Bros. 3" bits in the game though... 
 I didn't see any influence from "Super Mario Bros. 2" which was a bit disappointing but oh well 
 the nostalgia factor is definitely prominent throughout the whole game and that lifted this game's 
 score from a 9 to a 10 for me.
  
  Mario=Wii. 
  
  
  
  Update: I got 120 stars! Easier than Mario 64 I must say... doable is better than impossible (I 
 only have 117 stars in Mario 64! : ( ) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FullMetalWWant
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 10:21 pm PT
Review:  One it comes to Wii games, many have come. But Mario is no exception. He is back in a whole new 
 adventure in Super Mario Galaxy. SMG beings a whole new level of adventure this time around.
  
  Like in all Mario adventure games, you play as Mario as he jumps, spins, attacks, shoots, and 
 transforms himself to save Peach. The catch is that you are now in space, which adds a whole new 
 gameplay to the Mario series.
  
  The graphics is the best I've seen on a Wii game. The level design for each of the galaxys you 
 explore are, without a doubt, amazing. 
  
  Everything else makes this game shine like the stars in the sky. Anybody who has a Wii should pick 
 up Super Mario Galaxy today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordLanz
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Mario is back big time in a huge 3D Adventure for the Wii. And what an adventure it is so far. 
 Am only 20 stars into the game, but the gameplay has been out of this world. Just to Highlight 
 a few things so far. Great Story so Far, and great levels, not to hard and not to easy either. 
 Level Design is wonderful to say the least, great levels to explore and fun little mini games make 
 you feel like you are back in time playing Super Mario Brothers again. And can you say music, hearing 
 some of that music brings back memories. I have battled Bowser Once already and what a Battle it 
 was. So to Bring this to a Wrap, great game, gameplay and music. Wonderfull game, Best 50 bucks 
 I have spent in a while. What would we do if Bowser isnt there to kiddnap Peach lol. Check it out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  The game we've all been waiting for since we first bought our system. This was the game I was waiting 
 for when the Wii launch even thou Zelda did come out day one but this was actually the game I wanted 
 with the system. 
  
  This has to be one of the best looking Mario game ever made with the level design and tight controls. 
 You will never get tired of the beautiful universe of Mario Galaxy. If you played the Mario game 
 before there's nothing different to this story like the previous ones. Princess Peach is taken 
 away from the land and is your duty to save her once again from Browser. Just like all the previous 
 Mario games you will be collecting coins to increase your life and you'll be collecting stars to 
 unlock different planets in this world. Without collecting them you won't be able to progress in 
 the game there are about 120 stars in the game. You'll only need half of these stars to beat the 
 game. While doing this you'll be having a lot of fun. The boss fights aren't that bad and the levels 
 are just so fun to go through that you'll love to go back to some of the planets just to go through 
 them one more time. 
  
  This is easily one of the best games on the Nintendo Wii and if you own this system than I will 
 highly recommend for you to get this game because this has to be the best mario game since Mario 
 64. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario-Luige
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY:
  The gameplay in galaxy is extremely easy to learn and use while and the difficulty is always the 
 right medium except for a few bonus galaxies. A to jump and Shake to attack is what you'll use 
 mostly through-out the entire game. Strangely designed planets and puzzles however make it a bit 
 more challenging though. The gravity concept is an amazing feat that no game has ever pulled off 
 as greatly as galaxy. You could long jump off a tower and end up going around the entire platform. 
 The suits are also easy to use with the exception of Spring Mario whoms wild bounces and timing 
 of jumps tends to complicate things while not making it too difficult. Gameplay for this gets a 
 10 / 10.
  
  GRAPHICS / SOUND:
  The first thing you'll notice about galaxy is its strange ways of lighting its figures. The environments 
 are gorgous and you will never tire of the strange looks each new galaxy brings. What is more noticable 
 then the graphics reflection, refractions, lighting, and colors is the remix of old music and newly 
 added music that brings the game to life. Sometimes you can't help but hum along to the orchestrated 
 songs the most popular being Sweet Sweet Galaxy (SMB3) , Toy-Time Galaxy (SMB) , and Gusty Gardens 
 (newly orchestrated) . Overall this section gets a 10 / 10.
  
  STORY: 
  The only thing that Sunshine probably did better then Galaxy was a story. Unlike Sunshine you get 
 a brief opening video of Bowser attacking mushroom town and kidnapping Peach to see his galaxy 
 then you somehow manage to wake up on a moon with star bunnies that take you to Rosalina. You can 
 however go to the Library room in the hub world and read up on Rosalina it is pretty irrelevant 
 however to the actual journey you are on. However the game gives you just enough information to 
 get the idea. Bowser took Peach to the center of the universe and Rosalina's ship / comet / observatory 
 needs stars to power it. Though I think the game would make little sense with a more detailed story 
 seeing as it would be hard to really tie the different galaxies together in any way. So I'll have 
 to say 8 / 10.
  
  OVERALL:
  I give Super Mario Galaxy a (real score) of 9.8 / 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeisaniceguy
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Ok so I was getting home from school and I new I had to wait about two hours until my mom gets 
 home from work so she can drive me to target to get the game. So I was freaking out. Then as time 
 flew by I was already on my way to target. Then before I new it I had the game in my hands. As 
 soon as i got home I threw my sister off the TV and started playing for like 2 hours. In that two 
 hours I thought to myself that this will be the only game I will ever play besides Smash Brothers 
 Brawl and Halo 3. I just wanted to write my opinion and I hope you agree. Amen 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lawl4brawl
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Mario Galaxy is just pure fun. I dont really know how else to put it. I haven't played a game this 
 fun since... ever. And on top of that, the graphics are a amazing (for wii anyway) and really make 
 it just that much better.
  
  My only true complaint is that the game is a bit too easy, and I only really reached challenging 
 points by playing everything the game offers, rather than the main quest.
  
  Wii has had a few great games like Metroid Prime 3 and Twilight Princess, but both pale in comparison 
 to the masterpiece that is Galaxy. If you could only get one game on Wii, you'd have to be out-of-your-mind-crazy 
 to not pick Galaxy. Galaxy is my nomination for GOTY so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samasora
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is the game to get, its got combinations of things from the previous games. 
 It has the rabbits from Super Mario 64 for the DS and a lot of stuff from Sunshine. The graphics 
 are hot and the bosses are cool. Its worth the money and brings a new spin on things for Mario. 
 Also they bring back the fun puzzles there are two in each set of galaxies. Definitely the best 
 game on the Wii right now and worth a rating of 9.5- 10,
  cause it depends what your looking for but no matter what your looking for your going to give this 
 game a 9.5 cause that's how good it is.
  The only downside to it is that at first to get you into the hang of things they make the bosses 
 and levels easy, but the bad part is that it lasts a bit too long. The levels are fun and all but 
 there isn't much freedom cause well your in frigging space!!! In Sunshine you could go about anywhere 
 and if you wanted to you could even relax on a tree or go swimming. Also the levels are kind of 
 straight forward unlike Sunshine. In both games it would show where you had to go but the way to 
 get there and what to do on your way is your choice. But in Galaxy there is barely any other place 
 to go. There are some levels where you can walk around and go other places like the Honey level 
 which is on land. Going into space seems like a good idea but based in what makes Mario, Mario 
 space isn't the best place for a plumber. 
  Even though it seems that I wrote more things against Galaxy than for it you should get it because 
 you all know the great things about it but im just telling you the bad things so you also get the 
 other side to make a good decision but if I were to write all the good things i can about Galaxy 
 it would out weigh the bad. So get SUPER MARIO GALAXY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supafly43218
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  After starting the game up, i became ecstatic because it reminded me of how fun Mario 64 was. The 
 same moves, controls, everything - it all works perfectly. The wii's motion sensing is spot on, 
 and never feels forced. Unlike ports, which try to add wii motion, Mario Galaxy was made for the 
 Wii, and the use of the wiimote is perfect. All your favorite jumps are there and are as fun as 
 ever, while a new way of bashing enemies in the form of a knuckle spin has been added. Firing off 
 star bits to topple enemies is also hell of a lot of fun.
  
  The next thing? GRAPHICS GRAPHICS GRAPHICS. The creation of Super Mario Galaxy has proven that 
 the Wii can make beautiful worlds come to life, with bloom effects, light reflection, and smooth 
 gameplay that never slows. The ability to play on spherical worlds is insanely different, and I 
 love it. This is easily the best looking game for the wii to date.
  
  The only "bad thing" about the game is the story line. Of course, as with all mario games, there 
 has never BEEN a story line, and that is fine. I would have liked to play the game and know that 
 I was playing for a reason. Of course, the reason to play is because this game is ridiculously 
 fun. I just wish that the story could have supplemented the gameplay in a way to make you WANT 
 to finish a level to be able to continue the story line. 
  
  In the end, if you loved mario 64 and want the best looking game for the wii to date, you can NOT 
 pass this by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmconstable
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  Galaxy is better than sunshine for many subtle reasons. Sure you have a central hub world like 
 the island in Sunshine or the castle in 64 and Bowser took the castle away with chains a la Paper 
 Mario and Princess Peach is again in need of rescue. The difference is in the gameplay. The game 
 does look better as well. Take a look at the fuzz on the queen bee for starters. I played for a 
 couple hours on my first sit and could have kept playing, but had other things I had to do. I really 
 like the use of the Wiimote as it makes the game simple to control and you actually use less buttons 
 than in previous titles which makes the game easier to play yet just as precise. The point is that 
 Galaxy refines everything from previous games so it is familiar, but also a completely new game 
 and very fun to play. I am giving it a 9.5 as I have not completed the game yet, but I expect the 
 score could only go up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noct
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 6:59 am PT
Review:  This is one of those rare times when a game actually lives up to its fan's expectations. Super 
 Mario Galaxy may not be everyone's cup of tea, but fans of the series will definitely not be disappointed. 
 Put simply, this is Mario 64 - 2. Not to say that Mario Sunshine wasn't a good game (because it 
 surely was) , but this brings me back to what I loved about the series to begin with. Platforming 
 at its absolute finest with the trademark charm and style that the series is known for.
  
  SMG is one of those games that you just can't put down. Every time I finish a level I say to myself, 
 "ok, I'll go back and save, and then turn it off", but then it opens up a new galaxy and my curiosity 
 gets the better of me... Before I know it, it's an hour later and I'm holding that level's star 
 in my hands.
  
  While on the subject, this series is still at its roots largely a big fetch quest. Squish this, 
 pick up the coin it drops; figure out how to get on this platform to get the coin it holds, etc... 
 In the first few minutes of playing, this was readily apparent to me, and I got a little disappointed. 
 I wondered for a few moments if I hadn't finally outgrown the whole concept and needed something 
 more from my games now. The thing is, after playing for a few more minutes, I completely forgot 
 all about it. Once again the big N has managed to camouflage coin collecting with excellent level 
 design and outstanding game play that makes you forget that you're basically playing the same Mario 
 game all over again with better graphics.
  
  Speaking of, this game looks simply beautiful. Graphics are obviously not the Wii's strong suit, 
 but you wouldn't know it playing SMG. I'm usually pretty hung-up about graphics, and typically 
 I would rather play a lower quality title in HD on my 360 then a last-gen looking game on my Wii 
 just for tighter game play. The only thing disappointing about the visuals here is that I pretty 
 much think this is the best I'll ever see on this system. Nowhere to go but down... It's not that 
 this game pushes the hardware in any magical way; it is just that it has outstanding design and 
 production qualities that transfer well to this system's capabilities. Call of Duty 4 it is not, 
 but it doesn't have to be; it looks better then I expected and I couldn't be happier about its 
 visuals.
  
  The game play in most Mario games is typically fantastic, and this installment is right on track 
 there too. Most levels have a very intuitive flow to them, and only once in multiple hours of play 
 did I not know exactly where I had to go and what I had to do. Most levels present a decent challenge 
 without getting at all frustrating, and beyond that, they are just fun to play. Every moment of 
 the game is a treat to experience and you'll constantly want to run around the next bend just to 
 see what lies ahead. The new game play mechanics such as running around the outside of the circular 
 worlds work very well and while taking a little time to get accustomed to, they eventually feel 
 just right. It makes brilliant use of the Wii motion sensing controls without forcing you to abandon 
 the tried and true control scheme of M titles. Put simply, this game would be just as good without 
 the motion sensing, but what use it does make of them are enjoyable and well implemented. 
  
  Now, the game isn't absolutely perfect on all levels mind you... For one thing, it is still 
 the same game as always, and while they do a lot of stuff to invigorate the experience, there was 
 a time here and there where the game felt a little too familiar. I don't necessarily consider this 
 a bad thing though, because what I'm remembering while playing it are other outstanding Mario games. 
 I liken the experience to Halo 3 a bit... Yeah, it was largely a rehash of old ideas, but the ideas 
 it was based on were so fantastic that they could stand a rehash. SMG feels like SM3 in Mario 64's 
 universe, and that's ok. It's not doing a whole lot of new stuff, but it doesn't have to. You'll 
 still want to find every star, you'll still want to see every inch of each world, and you'll still 
 pine for those elusive suits just as much as you did in SMB3. I knew the suit system was a winner 
 when I fell in some water, lost my Bee suit, and got ticked off. Point being, I was having so much 
 fun being "the bee" that I didn't want it to end and immediate set off in search of another bee 
 mushroom. That to me says mission accomplished by the developers.
  
  The only major complaint I have about SMG is the difficulty level. I know this game has to have 
 a wide appeal and be accessible to young players, but after my first hour of play I had amassed 
 like 28 extra lives, and I wasn't even collecting as many "star-bits" as I could have. On a few 
 levels you can just stand in one area and continue to collect endless amounts of stars as they 
 just keep falling from the sky. The game still has its challenging moments, but they are mostly 
 constrained to reaching extra coins and such, beating each level in itself is fairly simple. Again, 
 I realize Mario games have a wide appeal, but I don't ever recall any of them being quite as easy 
 as this one is. The most difficult bit about this game is wrapping your head around the game play/control 
 concepts that have you orbiting planets and running towards the screen.
  
  Apart from that, the only other issue that comes to mind is the glaring lack of a two player game 
 here. I know this series has moved away from that in the past, but I was hoping it would come back 
 on a bigger level then it has. The co-op mode is interesting, but more of an annoyance to me then 
 I expected in practice. Yeah, it's kind of fun on some levels, but I was constantly annoyed at 
 the notion that player 2 had the ability to shoot my precious star-bits as they saw fit. Dang it! 
 Stop wasting my star-bits!
  Again, the very fact that it annoyed me is just a testament to how great the game itself is, I 
 don't want to collect the stars, but I just can't seem to stop...
  
  The long and short of it is, this is a must buy, and a definite contender for GOTY, which is saying 
 a lot when it's up against this years titles. Welcome back Mario!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darnydb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 8:58 pm PT
Review:  It's important to establish perspective and context:
  
  Old gamer here, I've played through SMB 1, lost levels, 2, 3, super mario land, super mario world, 
 ummm... super paper mario for the wii. I've played some 64 (but was quickly bored/frustrated) .
 
  
  As the gamespot reviewer said, SMG takes Mario 64 and blows it the hell up.
  
  Let's start with graphics. This game is beautiful, even if you're just watching it. The colors 
 are hypervivid, the textures suck you in, the scaling is fast and impressive. The planets (levels, 
 boards, platforms, stages, whateer) are designed beautifully. Not only are they just constructed 
 well, but some of the 'deathstar-type' spheres mario has to play through are... inspired. It's hard 
 to understand or say what I mean, but once you experience them you'll know what I mean.
  
  Playing the actual game is a delight. Once you get the hang of the 3D controls and the fact that 
 there really is no down, moving mario around and from sphere to sphere is a breeze. There are a 
 few 'special moves' too that mario picks up as the game progresses. Pull stars (slingshot yourself 
 through space) , sticky rubber band-like launchers, platforms that appear and disappear, bee suits, 
 swimming... it's all here and it's all very fun to experience.
  
  The game itself is easy, as far as I can tell. I've collected about 20 of 120 stars and I haven't 
 really met any seriously challenges (other gamers who are further in the game swear that it gets 
 much harder) . I think this game is less about mashing buttons and avoiding shells as it is about 
 exploring and searching, and acheiving to nab those extra stars.....
  
  ... which is why this game works on the wii. The wii is made for all gamers of all skill levels, 
 and this game works for everyone. I have to say, I've tried about 40 wii titles already most of 
 them have been kids' games. A kid will love working through the levels, as an adult I'm getting 
 a real kick out of trying to reach each and every last corner of the game.
  
  So many wii titles have been marred by poor controls. Not SMG. You move mario around with the nunchuck 
 and make him jump etc. with the buttons. No fancy waving of the remote required. The wii mote doesn't 
 completely take a back seat though.. there are a few levels where you have to roll and surf your 
 way to the end, sans nunchuck. Also, you do get to point at the screen to collect and shoot 'star-bits' 
 (for various purposes) . 
  
  The only strikes against this title are the following:
  
  1. sometimes it's hard to negotiate the 3D aspects... particularly when there's a coin above you 
 that you're trying to reach and the camera isn't giving you the greatest angle
  
  2. experienced gamers may be looking for more speed, more realism, more seriousness, less baby 
 stars and princesses reading storybooks. SMG won't replace or compete with Halo 3 and the likes.
 
  
  BUY BUY BUY!!! Instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madskillz101
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  After playing this game for a few hours, I didn't like it much, but I've edited this review after 
 playing it about another 15 hours. But once you really get into it, it is amazing and innovative 
 in nearly every way. The "get more portals open" thing doesn't even feel like a grind, even though 
 it really should. The levels are short and fun, like they should be, and there are even mini game 
 levels that are awesome. Almost every time I enter a new level of a galaxy, I see something new 
 and say "sweet!" This game is everything I expected it to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dajon94
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  This is currently the best nintendo wii game as of right now. I like the 2nd player controls. Also 
 all the levels. Don't forget the Bee, Boo, & Spring mushrooms. Also the Fire, Rainbow, & Ice Mushrooms. 
 I love this game. There is so many different levels and things to do. I definatly reccomend this 
 game to any one. So what are u waiting for go out & buy it you won't be sorry. Trust me. Go. Well 
 I hope you do buy it it is really worth the time and monry. Trust me. Buy This Game. You wont regreat 
 it at all. Plezz. I'm Running out of things to say about this game. Stop reading this & go buy 
 this game now. What are you waiting for. GO Go Go Go go !!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rundas
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is astoundingly perfect! I have had no problem adjusting to controls and it makes a great 
 game anytime. Perfect Replay Value, Perfect Interactivity, Perfect graphics (for the wii) , and 
 Gameplay that will blow your mind! If you own a wii you MUST buy this game. 
  
  New suits add for more fun. Tack on Fire Ball Mario in the 3d adventure weve come to know and love. 
 Ever wanted to be a boo? Enjoy your italian ghost. Oh and dont sniff the flowers, mario may sting 
 you. These suits put a twist onto the game as done the dizzying flights from planet to planet. 
 AGAIN this is a must play game. 
  
  Finale - 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squal132
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is just amazing!!!!! The controls I thought would be hard to control but they are so 
 smooth they work very well! The graphics are amazing the little movies are just wow!!!! I really 
 like how you can pick up the star things with your wii romote. The difficulty on this game is just 
 right. I really like all of the 3-D worlds you get to travel to and you go on these spring things 
 to get to another part of the world its just really cool I like the little star people and the 
 mother of the star people they just seem really cool. The first boss is really cool I enjoyed that 
 boss fight. I havent beat it yet and I have only played it for an hour so far. But I really wanted 
 to type this review really bad. So I hope you like my review so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arb92
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  The good parts of this game is the graphics, the graphics are amazing, the scenery is amazing, 
 the design is awesome, the graphics are just amazing. The controls, the controls are really easy 
 and they are smooth and the wii mote controls never have any flaws. There are many galaxies to 
 explore, and they have many planets to explore and a lot of puzzles to complete. There are many 
 boss fights in the game and they look like some of mario's old enemies, like the dinosaur, it looks 
 just like Petey Phirana. The new costumes, they work out fantastically, and they are really cool, 
 where i am at in this game, i have only gotten to the bee suit and it is really cool, and the bee 
 suit's controls are really easy to handle. If you have played Super Mario 64 and Super Mario Sunshine 
 and liked them, then you will like this game, it plays just like those 2 games and the concept 
 is just the same. The story is the usual, princess Peach is kidnapped (again) during this festival 
 and of course, the plumber with the mustache has to "go at it again". The fact that after you get 
 120 stars, you can play as Luigi, and then get the 121st star at the end. By now, i would have 
 said the bad parts of this game, but to me, this game has no bad things. Overall, this game is 
 just amazing, to me, it is the best wii game yet, with best graphics, and NO wii owner should pass 
 this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MechaGoomba
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  There are very few games released thats surrounded with so much hype pressuring but still turns 
 out good. Well mario galaxy was one of them but it surpassed that. Its the best game ever made 
 even with all the hype pressuring it.
  
  Mario was going to have some peace time with peach but bad mr bowser had to ruin the fun. This 
 time he captures peach in a space ship and takes her to different galaxies. Then kamek comes and 
 teleports mario to a strange place with talking star dudes. You find out that you need to restore 
 the power stars that are held captive by bowser and his minions and its up to you to stop them 
 by hopping from galaxy to galaxy in this epic journey.
  
  
  Let me first start of with the pros of the game. This game has the most epic soundtrack ever. everything 
 is orcherastrated and brilliantly played. Its just amazing all they way. The graphics are regular 
 wii graphics but with the unique art style it looks like it go in the caliber of 360 graphics which 
 is very impressive. Now we are up to the best part the game play. Jumping from planet to planet 
 is great. its so awesome to watch. you collect many mini stars which you do to feed to the hungry 
 stars which turn to galaxies and planets. The fighting is fun. Level mechanics are the best. every 
 level is differnt and unique in its own way. Now there are alot of bosses too. They are great and 
 well detailed like the fire octopus dude. You wilkl find non stop enjoyment with this
  
  The con is sometimes frusterating camera but that dosent make the score lower. This is still the 
 best game ever created and everyone deserves to own it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: borvis2
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  best game on wii better than super mario bros. 1 and 3 put together and that's saying more than 
 being better than mario 64 the best graphics on wii no one should give it under 9.0 go see the 
 rating on gametrailers. com 9.8 right well there you go the game is better than paper mario on n64 
 and that's GOOD! who dosen't agree with me i just bought it about 2 hours ago and playing as 2nd 
 player and first player was the most enjoyment i've had for a LONG!!!!! time who dosen't like that 
 game go pick it up  you will love it that game 
 is priceless i love it i just wish you could punch normaliy and if you could do vs. mode that would 
 be awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best Mario game to date, the best game on the Wii, and frankly one of the best 
 games in history. Mario Galaxy has everything you could hope for and more. 
  
  Super Mario Galaxy comes to us after a great Zelda game and a excellent final chapter in the Prime 
 saga. But Galaxy set's itself apart as one of those wonderful Nintendo first party masterpeices 
 that is difficult to find any one thing that you could gripe about. 
  
  The usual has happend again, Mario on his way to Princess Peaches party is interupted by Bowser 
 as he kidnaps the Princess once again (you'd think they'd have tighter security by this point) . 
 After the Castle is taken into the Cosmos, Mario is awaked by bunnies who turn out to be stars. 
 These stars are the "children" of Roslina, whose ship is floating with out power through space 
 because Bowser and son stole their power stars. It's up to Mario and his little star friend to 
 get the stars back and save Peach. The story isn't anything new as any Mario vetran will notice. 
 But it's what makes up the rest of the game that makes it great. 
  
  The graphics on Galaxy are hands down the best ever on the Wii, and seeing that most of the publisher 
 think it's ok to make junk graphics for the Wii, it's a refreshing change. It's what you would 
 expect Mario to look like on the 360 or PS3. They are better then the GCN's graphics, but it's 
 the little details that make the difference. The color pallet in this game is deep. Food looks 
 good enough to eat, water looks cool and refreshing, space looks wonderous and deep. The animation 
 is no slouch either. Many of the cute characters you meet along the way are well adapt at moving 
 around. 
  
  While Mario doesn't actually have much in the way of dialog, his usual grunts and acknowledments 
 are there. Toads sound like Toads. Peace sounds like Peach, and Bowser sounds bad to the bone. 
 The usual Mario themes make their appearance here with some new songs added. All in all the audio 
 expierence is vintage Mario and doesn't disappoint. 
  
  Controls are fantastic. They are easy to pick up and play, but are deep at the hands of a Mario 
 Galaxy vetran. It's the perfect balance of Wii motion and Wii buttons that make playing Mario Galxay 
 a pleasure to play for hours on end. 
  
  The from begining to end is fairly short if you are going for the minimum of the stars to get to 
 Bowser. If you are going for all of them, it get's very difficult, but the unlockables are worth 
 the time and aggrivation that some of the levels will create. 
  
  The only gripe is that Nintendo didn't change the formula of this Mario game very much from the 
 ground breaking Mario 64 and the lukewarm Mario Sunshine. But Nintendo seems to think if it ain't 
 broke, don't fix it. Besides, there is nothing to fix. Mario Galaxy is the perfect Wii expierence, 
 and the game that Wii owners of casual and hardcore have been looking for. It will rejuvinate dusty 
 Wiis to their owners up until the next good game comes out (and wii don't know when that is) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: padouke
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  There is something about Super Mario Galaxy that just makes me love my Wii even more. There are 
 already a lot of great games on Nintendo's newest system, and dozens of great games under Mario's 
 belt, but Super Mario Galaxy is the best in both aspects.
  
  Hardcore gamers may ask, "How could a kiddy Mario game be better than Twilight Princess?". Well, 
 that I cannot express. They are two very different genres, and its hard to compare them. But both 
 are very deep games, and I feel that, in the end. SMG is a better game simply because it has beautiful, 
 lively graphics, it is paced wonderfully, it has a large replay value, and it is very accessible 
 to any type of gamer, newbies or veterans.
  
  The story is basic enough for those who have encountered a Mario game before. But once the princess 
 is captured, you are blasted to a different planet. This is when the really cool aspects of the 
 game begin to occur. It is very satisfying, for some reson, when you blast Mario to a different 
 planet. The controls are very solid and work wonderfully and the difficulties between stages progress 
 at a perfect speed. 
  
  Overall, the game is quite along, when you try and find every possible star. The star system itself 
 is still as intriguing as ever. Adopted from Mario 64, the star system really sets out what you 
 need to do and where you need to do it. It is good to have the stars back. 
  
  Easily one of my favorite games, Super Mario Galaxy is great for anyone, and there are very few 
 negative things to say about the game, besides that it eventually ends. Go buy it, it is definately 
 the best game for the Wii thus far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hyrule-master
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 3:31 pm PT
Review:  WOW! All I can say is wow. This is probably the first mario game that I could say outdid mario 
 64. Although not bringing back all of the best costumes (like tanooki mario or shoe mario) that 
 I was hoping they would bring back, they kept the the casual suits and brought back a whole new 
 crop of costumes. The bee costume, although you could say it's a little kiddy, was quite fun to 
 use. The boo suit was amazing. That idea, to give mario ghost powers, was seriously ingenious. 
 Also, there are many others in which I loved like the spring suit.
  
  Ok, so if the costumes didn't amaze you, then lets talk about the level design. It truly brought 
 the wii controls to use. Each level was unique and made me want to either play it again, or be 
 really anxious to play the next one.
  
  I could rate this game higher because of this perfect, Ideal gameplay. The fact that this mario 
 game was combined with such stellar game play and graphics makes this a truly AWESOME game. It 
 did not need such good graphics, but the fact that it was in there anyways makes this a faultless 
 game. 
  
  Finally, quoting Gamespot, I will conclude by saying "The stellar presentation and fantastic level 
 designs combine to make Super Mario Galaxy the Wii's game to beat and one of Mario's greatest adventures 
 yet." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sants412
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  It's time for the next game in the 3d Mario platforming series.. Super Mario Galaxy! Here is my 
 review piece by piece:
  
  Graphics/Visuals: Outstanding, they really push the wii's limits to what it can do. It runs very 
 smoothly in 60 FPS. It is very bright and colorful and the artwork in some of the Galaxies and 
 the hub world are absolutely amazing. I would have to say some of the best art (if not, the best) 
 in a video game to date.
  
  Gameplay: Very fun and just right, it's not too hard and not too easy. It's what you'd expect from 
 a 3d Mario platformer, but with a little kick. Mario controls nice and smoothly and using the pointer 
 is cool and somewhat intuitive. Multi player is fun with someone else if they're willing to use 
 the pointer by itself. There's many bosses and that just adds to the game's fun.
  
  Sound: To me, this was the biggest treat. All the music is beautifully orchestrated. You walk into 
 a galaxy and do not know what kind of music to expect, but every time I was surprised and I was 
 very happy with what I had to hear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamemaster004
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  No matter what I think about the Mario franchise and how there are to many of them. He is the spokesman 
 for the Nintendo console and he hits hard with another fun ass game. I played the demo for about 
 three hours and got pretty far in the game. It is a very original game and I suggest if yuo dont 
 want to buy it is a must play on the wii.. Overall the game was pretty addictive and gave a new 
 spin to a overly used character. Im not downing Mario, but come on Marion party, Golf, mansion, 
 Blah Blah Blah. get over it if u dont like what im saying, but its fun so play it and have fun 
 with it.. Gamer in the house.. LMAO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioknight
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Mario has been an icon for the ages throughout video game history. His games have set the bar time 
 and time again for revolutions and setting new standards. From reviving a once-dead industry in 
 the 80s, to bringing it to a new dimension just over a decade later, Mario's adventure games are 
 timeless and give other games something to strive for in every area imaginable. However in this 
 day and age, with the break into the third dimension taking place just over a decade ago, is there 
 really anything more a platformer can do that hasn't been done before? Better yet, with all the 
 mixed views on the latest Mario platformer before now, has even the hero of the industry run out 
 of tricks in his bag to captivate audiences as he had done in generations past?
  
  Enter the Nintendo Wii, with it's motion sensing technology allowing for interaction never before 
 possible. But with a few notable exceptions, most games for the Wii have been gimmicky and have 
 had the feel of tech demo mini-games rather than trying to use this new technology to set a new 
 standard. Whether it be developers either not trying hard or still getting a feel for it (I tend 
 to believe the latter) , there hasn't been a serious attempt at an actual Wii title (re, a game 
 that didn't start as a GameCube game) to make use of the new interaction in an adventure-type game. 
 Super Mario Galaxy is the first game to attempt this, and like the Mario games of generations past, 
 shines brightly and will easily become a timeless classic for the ages.
  
  Like its predecessors, the story is the basic princess gets kidnapped and must be saved. The twist 
 this time around is that Bowser has learned how to use Power Stars to travel all across the universe. 
 Mario is aided by star creatures called lumas, who are cared for by a woman named Rosalina. You 
 spend time on her comet observatory to use the power of the stars you collect to power the observatory 
 back up to fully operational status. The more stars you collect, the increased power of the ship 
 can allow you to travel to more distant galaxies until the ship allows you to travel to the center 
 of the universe for the final showdown with Bowser. 60 stars are required to accomplish this, with 
 a maximum of 120 to collect.
  
  It may seem like a rehash of Super Mario 64, especially when you can find yourself pulling off 
 many of Mario's moves the same way as you would in his 64-but adventure. However unlike SM64, the 
 levels, called galaxies, take a whole new meaning of the term level design. These galaxies have 
 multiple small planets that you travel between using launch stars. Sometimes planets are so close 
 together that a high jump will gravitate Mario to the other planet. The traveling around the more 
 circular can take some getting used to, however it doesn't take that long and is quite enjoyable. 
 You won't always be on such planets as you will find yourself on platforms floating through space 
 debris, or even gigantic toys. Parts of stages even revert to the classic 2D type sections, adding 
 twists of the direction of gravity being changed, making things real interesting.
  
  Like other games, Mario has multiple suits that give him different abilities. He can now turn into 
 a bee to fly short distances, into a boo to scare his enemies, classic fire Mario to shoot fireballs, 
 and even a spring to jump to unbelievable heights. Some if these suits can be tricky to use, but 
 they all provide a lot of fun and entertainment. Coins restore Mario's life as in previous games, 
 however there isn't much focus in collecting them as in the past. In SMG, the focus is more on 
 Star-bits, which are used for various things. From currency to food for the luma, to even as weapons. 
 They can be collected by touching them, or the more fun way of highlighting them by pointing the 
 cursor with the Wii-mote over them. The same method can be used to shoot them by the point and 
 click.
  
  The soundtrack is also quite impressive. It reuses some scores from previous games with touch-ups, 
 and includes a lot of new tracks that sound wonderful. It's hard to get a good listen to the music 
 while playing, but from what I can hear as I play and listen for when others play, I love it. However 
 until I get a hold of and fully listen to the soundtrack, I really can't comment much on it. I 
 also cannot really comment on the two-player cooperative play since I haven't been able to play 
 it yet. However I've read that it can be as simple as just having the second player collect and 
 shoot star-bits, to fully helping out with control of Mario and his surroundings. I am really looking 
 forward to playing this full-force with my friends when the opportunity presents itself.
  
  I really have no quibbles with the game. The story is simple though adds a new degree with aiding 
 Rosalina and the lumas with their problems. However while I haven't finished this myself yet, it 
 would appear that everyone who has completed the game has said that the ending doesn't really tie 
 up any loose ends, which is disappointing if that is the case. Also disappointing to me is the 
 exclusion of the Koopalings from a Mario game once again. They haven't been used in a decade and 
 a half or so, and would easily add many degrees to the game in both story and gameplay. Honestly, 
 I could go on for a while about my displeasure of cutting them from the Mario universe, so I will 
 tackle the subject elsewhere. However, what was great to see that hasn't really been used since 
 Super Mario Bros. 3 is the usage of the Doomship. It's a nice thing to see, and hopefully foreshadows 
 other things coming down the line.
  
  Overall, Super Mario Galaxy is an amazing game. The 3D platformer genre has been in need of something 
 new and fresh while remaining elements of the old, and SMG does an excellent job of doing that. 
 It introduces new elements of play and executes them almost flawlessly. This is the game that will 
 set the bar for the genre for this generation of systems and the groundwork for future generations. 
 History has repeated once again with Mario setting the standard, allowing for the evolution of 
 the genre and industry to keep moving forward. If you own a Wii, you must get this game, and if 
 you don't own a Wii yet, this is the game that should convince you to get one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ped101
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Hoow to describe Super Mario Galaxy? It is the first amazingly fun adventure since the old N64 
 version, with crazy graphics and even crazier gameplay. The first moments of twisting and twirling 
 can be nauseating but it is so worth it i cannot even begin to describe. The controls are simple, 
 nothing vital is purely based on the motion sensor (depends if shooting stars qualifies as vital 
 to you) , and the constant going up and down makes one feel submerged in the gameplay. The graphs 
 are colourful, beautiful and the sound impresses. 
  This is one of the best Mario games i have ever played and I recommend it to all of those out there 
 who are trying to figure out wether it is worth it or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cspark809
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Very smooth control!!!!! You might have little problems now and then ,but those are really small.
 
  
  graphics best graphic for wii and least top ten of all other consoles combine.
  
  gameplay are very revolutionary, jus like what gamespot describe as, unlike mario 64 this game 
 don't feel tedious to go back to same level again and again to collect the star power. its very 
 refreshing everytime going back
  
  Sounds are great too!!!!! It adds lots tower gameplay, I hardly notice any sound while I play other 
 games ,but wow!!!! this game actually I notice it, and taught me importance of sounds tower gameplay.
 
  
  overall. must have title!!!!!!!!!
  Nintendo number 1 game company ever created....
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: infectbda
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Galaxy is by far the best game in the series. It's everything you would expect from 
 a Mario game, but with the addition of the amazing space theme which isn't a gimmick at all. "Galaxy" 
 is everything "Sunshine" should have been, plus much, much more. The visuals are wonderful - they 
 look better than anything on the Gamecube (for anyone that says the Wii is just a re-packaged GC, 
 think again) , and the art design is stunning. Each galaxy is unique, inventive, and it's just one 
 surprise after another.
  
  
  If you have a Wii, buy this game. If you don't have a Wii, get one. It's that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: max253
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Everyone remembers the first time they picked up a controller and played Mario. If you a fan of 
 the series once you pick up the wii mote and start playing you will get that same burst of excitement 
 from the first time you picked up a control to play a Mario game. The graphics are not anything 
 like the ps3 or xbox360 but for the Wii it looks sensational. After all Nintendo has proven that 
 it isn't about the graphics it is about the game play. Mario Galaxy offers that by the use of the 
 Wii remote. By shooting the crystals you get by picking them up from exploding Goombas to running 
 around in flowers. Also the shaking of the Wii remote to allow a spin attack or shooting to other 
 small "planets". Since my brother and I just bought the game we decide to check out the 2 player 
 feature. It is pretty helpful in collecting thing and stunning enemies and boulders. However the 
 second player can make Mario jump allowing the second player to piss off who ever is playing. Which 
 really is the only decide side to the game. Although they don't have voice acting in the game it 
 really isn't a big deal because you don't have to read huge chunks like you might have experienced 
 in Final Fantasy 7. All this game is worth it and is one if not the best game out for the Wii up 
 to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spixter534
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  that is a big thing to say when you say that it is the best mario game ever made but it is. everything 
 about this game is perfect. they nail the gravity effects are the coolest thing in video games 
 in a long time. this is absolutely the goty. the graphics are by far the best on the wii. there 
 is no game that touches this. im not going to write a long review, read igns. this is the wiis 
 best game and every wii owner should buy this game. halo 3 is to the 360 as super mario galaxy 
 is to wii. except smg is better than H3. peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -PresidentEvil-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly amazing. Everyone that owns a Wii, the millions of people, should give Nintendo 
 credit and buy this game. This game will blow your mind, combining everything needed for a perfect 
 game. Yes, I said perfect. Super Mario Galaxy is everything that you would want in a game, and 
 calling it anything but perfect is a crime. The best gameplay, the best graphics [for the Wii] , 
 the best sound, the best.. everything.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  It is Mario, is there really anything else to say. Plays perfectly, and if there is anything to 
 brag about in this game, it is the gameplay. Everything goes perfectly, the Wii controls work great, 
 and not implanted too much, which is perfect for this type of game. You press A to jump, you wiggle 
 the Wii remote to spin/attack, and you point at the screen to throw stars and collect them. There 
 are a few camera issues, but like every 3D Mario, it doesn't bring the game down much, and in Super 
 Mario Galaxy, it rarely happens. Overall, this is Mario at his best.
  
  [] 10/10 []
  
  Graphics:
  
  This game is beautiful. You can really tell Nintendo has pushed the Wii to the 
 max, and if not than I am very surprised. Lush colors, vibrant worlds, and everything you would 
 want in a Mario game. Everything falls into place just perfectly, and is this truly an HD system 
 graphics on the Wii. This game will win the graphical awards, for the reasons that it's HD on Wii, 
 it's Nintendo's best graphics ever, and it's Wii's best graphics in a game, and will be for years 
 to come. 
  
  [] 10/10 []
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound is fantastic. I have never heard this good of music in a game, and anything that remotely 
 compares to it is the Katamari music. Each world has different music, and there are many tunes 
 that will remind you of the older games, but the new music is there the game shines. Amazing, and 
 this part of the review does not do the game justice, when you pick it up, you will know how amazing 
 the sound is. Although I cannot give this a 10, because there is no voice acting, but in a Mario 
 game, is it really needed? Well, no, but Mario didn't have to speak, and the 9.5 is from everyone 
 not speaking. Although this game doesn't need the dialog as much as The Legend of Zelda: Twilight 
 Princess did, it would have been a nice feature non-the-less.
  
  [] 9.5 []
  
  Replay Value:
  
  This game is extremely replayable. You will want to pick this up again and 
 again, and if for some reasons you don't, you are in for a heck of a ride. The main game is 12-15 
 hours to plow through, which it took me 12. You need at least 60 stars to get to the final boss, 
 which is not hard, but the 120 stars is where the game gets difficult. There are so many paths, 
 and secrets in this game, that it makes it the most difficult to beat 100% out of all the other 
 Mario titles. You also get a very fun co-op mode, where if you have a buddy to play with, can get 
 extremely fun. Basically, in the co-op mode, one person controls Mario and does the basics, and 
 the other person helps, and he/she can collect the stars, shoot them, and basically all the Wii 
 remote controls without the Nunchuck. Coming into co-op, something first in a 3D Mario, I was a 
 little skeptical, but at the end I was very happy. Oh, and did I mention you can play as another 
 character, other than Mario? I wonder who? Trust me, you will want to play as him.
  
  [] 9.5/10 []
  
  Overall:
  
  This is a masterpiece. It is a crime to call it anything lower. 
 It is not only Nintendo's best game of all time, with the best sound and graphics, but also their 
 funnest game of all time, and one of their best games of all time. The experience to be had with 
 this game is truly as great as The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time was back when it came out. 
 This game is fantastic on all of it's parts, and I sure hope Nintendo makes some more masterpieces 
 like Super Mario Galaxy is. Buy it, and than buy it again for your friends. Nope, do not let them 
 borrow it, save them the trouble because they will own it anyways.
  
  [] Overall score: 9.8 []
  
  Pros:
  - Extremely replayable
  - More than one playable character
 
  - Co-op is surprisingly fun.
  - 12-15 hour to plow though it
  - 120 stars to collect
  - Fun as heck [the funnest video game I have ever played]
  - Best graphics/sound ever on a Nintendo 
 console
  - Send scores over WiiConnect24
  - Uses Wii's controls just right, and the gameplay is perfect
  
  Cons:
  - Rare camera issues
 
  - Only needs 60 stars to meet the final boss
  - Story mode ended? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abmco
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  Highly addictive, enjoyable, awesome looking, every level is different - making you want to explore 
 each and every one to gather every star! I've played a lot of great games this year, and nothing 
 comes close to the fun this packs in. It's the reason video games exist! I only wish I could spend 
 more time playing this week! This is the game that the Wii was made for, and not the reverse! Didn't 
 check all of Gamespot's reviews for the year, but if another game received a 10 this year and this 
 one didn't, THEY ARE LYING! Come on, an 8.5 on Zelda Twilight Princess?!? Zelda deserved higher, 
 and this is even better than that! MUST OWN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _T_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  The shear mass of the Galaxy's and level design alone make this game wonderful. The story sadly 
 is not what I expected it to be but the fun factor, the gravity game play and graphics make this 
 the best game on Wii to date. 
  
  Normally the opening screen is a rendered one like that of super Mario sunshine, But the opening 
 to Galaxy is that of pure enjoyment . The controls are flawless and the use of the Wii remote is 
 not forced on you but plays a important part in the game play like moving a ball or spinning to 
 knock out bad guys. I give this game a 9.5 and its a must have to this years video game holiday 
 lineup. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic_rusher
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 12:18 am PT
Review:  The game is brilliant and makes us look at platformers in a new way. They introduce an almost completely 
 independant camera, I cant think of a game that has done that right under the circumstances. Motion 
 controls make actions faster. Simply shake as you run. The IR pointer makes it so you dont have 
 to pick up all those stars and again speeds up the flow of gameplay. Bosses are a little easy but 
 I found some people playing it at my age who were not that well versed in Mario games that found 
 it just right. What ever level of play you find your skills at the bosses are brilliantly presented 
 and fun to beat. 
  
  The visuals and audio rival with anything the other next gen consoles have to offer. SMG even on 
 a less powerful next gen console looks and runs as detailed, grand, and smooth as the finest any 
 other developer has to offer. Its obvious that more games need to use programmable shaders, it 
 really makes a difference. The game runs smooth. The textures are ddetailed. The music is fully 
 orchestrated and also uses nostalgic Mario tunes from accross all Mario games.
  
  As GS review states the game is good regardless of its epic character, Mario, but having Mario 
 in it just makes it better. Super mario Galaxy is one of those games like Super Mario Bros., Super 
 Mario World, and Mario 64 that will go down in history as a role model for the rest of the industry. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
