-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/supermonkeyballbananablitz/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Single-player game makes intuitive use of Wii Remote.
 incredible variety of multiplayer minigames.
 gameplay initially more approachable, but can still present a potent challenge.
 gives series much-needed visual makeover.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lack of camera control can be frustrating in some boss battles.
 quality of multiplayer minigames wildly inconsistent.
 single-player game a little short.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 16, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 7.4, 60 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 1,683 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Genre: Party
Date: Nov 14, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Banana Blitz stands as one of the first, best proofs of what the Wii is capable of. 

  The original Super Monkey Ball was easily one of the best, most surprising games to appear on the 
 Nintendo GameCube when it launched back in 2001. It made the deceptively simple task of rolling 
 a ball from one end of an obstacle course to the other a tense, diabolical challenge that could 
 fray the steeliest of nerves yet still be immensely satisfying and addictive. A more robust sequel 
 followed, but the series has been withering since, a malady that seemed to culminate in the bastardized 
 Super Monkey Ball Adventure earlier this year. It seemed the series had run its course, but along 
 comes Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz, which reinvigorates the franchise with a warm new look, 
 an intuitive control scheme, and a selection of multiplayer minigames, the volume of which verges 
 on overwhelming. Diehard fans may feel a little let down by a perceived decrease in difficulty, 
 and there's a wide range in quality within the 50 multiplayer minigames. However, Banana Blitz 
 is still about as good as Super Monkey Ball has ever been, and it serves as a great example of 
 how the Wii's uniqueness can be put to good use.  

          Banana Blitz makes smart use of the Wii remote.     

  Since it first appeared, the 
 main game in Super Monkey Ball has always been a one-handed affair. With only the ability to roll 
 around inside your translucent bicolor hamster ball, control has classically been limited to a 
 single analog stick. This standing simplicity makes the transition to the Wii Remote a natural 
 one. The game makes use of the remote's gyroscopic features for movement control, so tilting the 
 controller forward, back, and side to side produces the expected effect onscreen. There's a simple 
 elegance to these controls, which are responsive enough to give you as much subtle movement control 
 as the game demands. This sensitivity means that it takes a light touch and a steady hand to play 
 well. The game seems to take its increased learning curve into account, as it does a good amount 
 of hand-holding over the first few levels. After that, though, the difficulty ramps up steadily, 
 and about halfway through you'll experience the kinds of tense challenges that you can feel in 
 your stomach. An unexpected side effect of the control scheme in Banana Blitz for right-handers 
 is that movement control in past Super Monkey Ball games (and, generally speaking, most modern 
 3D action games) has been assigned to your left hand, so the instinctive response of putting the 
 remote in your right hand can feel strange at first. It wears off, but it's something you'll need 
 to get comfortable with.  

  The challenge of Super Monkey Ball has always stemmed from managing your monkey's momentum as you 
 navigate narrow ledges, moving platforms, and loads of nasty obstacles designed to knock you right 
 off the course and into oblivion. A time limit on each obstacle course makes the inherently tricky 
 tasks at hand that much more urgent. These basic, defining characteristics still play prominent 
 roles in Banana Blitz, but the game makes a few significant alternations to the formula that definitely 
 give the game its own feel. Perhaps most profound is the ability to jump, which is done with the 
 A button on the remote. As simple as it may sound, it's a real game-changing ability, and it's 
 something that is taken into account in the level designs. Beyond this fundamental change, the 
 level design in Banana Blitz has undergone a slight alteration. It's still plenty intense, though 
 not nearly as draconian as the first two Super Monkey Ball games. Instead, you'll find longer levels 
 with a greater number of slightly lesser challenges, the net effect of which is that the gameplay's 
 inherent tension is given more time to build.  

  As you progress through the eight worlds that compose the single-player game in Banana Blitz, you'll 
 encounter regular boss fights. These usually involve taking on a larger-sized enemy with a single 
 weak spot that you have to figure out how to exploit. Some of them, such as one where you have 
 to roll your way across the back of a giant mechanical dinosaur, are quite memorable, though others 
 can feel a little generic compared to the otherwise singular Super Monkey Ball gameplay style. 
 The inability to control the game's camera can be frustrating in certain boss fights, as well, 
 due to the way it locks onto the boss during these sequences. Still, the boss fights break up the 
 action nicely. Overall, there hasn't been a Super Monkey Ball single-player experience that's felt 
 this good in years, which makes the game's relative brevity a little disappointing. The latter 
 half of the game features plenty of levels with 90-second time limits that can easily take you 
 a good half-hour to get past, and it'll take expert players at least four or five hours to get 
 through it. The action is consistently intense enough to make real marathon sessions hard on the 
 senses, but the number of levels simply isn't up to series standards.  

  Instead, Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz puts a much greater emphasis on the multiplayer component, 
 something which has slowly taken on a life of its own since first appearing as an aside in the 
 first Super Monkey Ball. There are 50 different minigames to choose from -- an intimidating number, 
 though in reality many of them share similar control schemes. Most games feature full four-player 
 support, though there are a few one-on-one minigames as well. Splitscreen is prevalent, but you'll 
 also find plenty of games where players share the screen or play sequentially. There's still a 
 great variety in the minigames, and all of them make pronounced use of the Wii Remote, with a number 
 of them also requiring that the Nunchuk be attached. You'll play whack-a-mole, hunt for treasure 
 in a minisubmarine, touch down a spaceship ala Lunar Lander, slingshot monkey balls at tin cans 
 and balloons, hunt other monkeys in a first-person shooter, play Simon says, red-light green-light, 
 play a ring-toss game, scoop goldfish out of a pond, compete in a snowboard race, and much more. 

  Some of the best demonstrations of what the Wii's motion-sensing and gyroscopic controls are capable 
 of at launch can be found within the multiplayer component of Banana Blitz. The groundwork laid 
 by minigames like Monkey Wars could easily be expanded into stand-alone games, and there are some 
 really different multiplayer experiences to be had here. They're not all winners, though. Sometimes 
 the controls aren't responsive enough to support the minigame concepts, and sometimes the minigame 
 concepts aren't interesting enough to warrant more than a couple plays. It's understandable why 
 the game takes a "see what sticks" mentality here, but it's unfortunate that you have to wade through 
 some pretty unplayable games to figure out what really works.  

          The sheer quantity of minigames makes this one of the best Wii multiplayer experiences 
 so far.     

  In addition to the crazy new controls and the volume of multiplayer minigames, Banana Blitz gives 
 Super Monkey Ball a much-needed visual makeover that gives the game a much more cartoony feel. 
 There's lots of flat-shading on the monkeys and the world around them, and the palette gives preference 
 to softer, warmer colors. The monkeys themselves also have new, energetic animations that help 
 give each more pronounced personalities, and the eight worlds in the single-player game have a 
 unique look to them. Banana Blitz supports standard-def widescreen support and also runs in 480p 
 for HDTVs. You definitely get a bump up in clarity when running in HD, though the game's sunny 
 appearances look good either way. The whole playful tone is backed up by the game's joyous soundtrack, 
 which can be so exuberant that it takes effort for it to not rub off on you.  

  With the Wii blazing a daring trail, there are definitely questions as to how well the unique controller 
 concepts will actually work out. Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz serves as a great proof of concept, 
 making some great, varied use of the Wii Remote and Nunchuk. The length of the single-player game 
 and the inconsistent quality of the multiplayer minigames are lamentable, but the highs are high 
 enough to make this one of the most highly recommended Wii launch games.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (131 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  Previous Super Monkey Ball games were known for two things: their simple controls that, while easy 
 to get to grips with, had a hidden depth that allowed masters of the game to become magicians of 
 monkey manoeuvrability; and the wide selection of multiplayer mini-games such as Monkey Target, 
 Monkey Golf and so on. So anyone who's dabbled with either of the original games will no doubt 
 be hoping that the Wii version offers more of the same.
  
  The truth is, it does and it doesn't. In terms of control, Banana Blitz will disappoint Monkey 
 Ball die-hards at first, as the limits of control (in other words, how far the level turned when 
 you moved the analogue stick to its furthest) have been reduced by a fair amount, meaning you'll 
 no longer be able to hurtle down levels at ridiculous speeds or make extremely tight turns. 
  
  This means that the first 30 minutes or so of gameplay will be somewhat frustrating as you 
 point your Wii Remote as far downwards as you can in the hope your ball will pick up speed, only 
 to realise it's already at its top speed and is never going to go so fast that the monkey starts 
 rolling about inside the ball like he did in the earlier games.
  
  You'll also find the turning method tricky at first, with you having to roll your wrist to turn 
 the stage left or right. Although it does make sense in terms of how the game works, for a while 
 you'll wish you could plug the Nunchuk in and use its analogue stick instead, just because you're 
 more used to it.
  
  But after about half an hour it suddenly clicks and you'll realise that this really is the best 
 way to play the game. Monkey Ball purists may see the inclusion of a jump button as a shocking 
 addition that totally changes the way the game's played, but eventually they'll realise that the 
 ability to jump will let them pull off even more extreme moves once they get used to things.
  
  The main thing you need to realise is that Banana Blitz is simply a different sort of Monkey 
 Ball. Instead of horsing it through the levels as quickly as possible, this time you have to think 
 tactically about what you're doing, jumping where and when necessary, and planning out how you're 
 going to tackle each level. 
  
  The game also now throws a boss level at you when you come to the end of each world. Whereas the 
 idea of a boss battle wouldn't really have worked in previous Super Monkey Ball games, the inclusion 
 of the jump button means your chimp now has a potential form of attack. As a result, most of these 
 battles are a case of dodging your opponent's attacks until they expose their weak point, at which 
 point you roll over, jump up and bash into it. 
  
  
  
  Though they might seem like something that's just been tacked on, the boss fights do provide a 
 pleasant change from the usual 'roll to the exit' gameplay and help break up things quite well. 
 
  
  Overall, the main game itself, although initially slightly disappointing, ends up feeling 'right' 
 reasonably quickly - probably by the time you get to the third world or so - and you do eventually 
 start to enjoy yourself.
  
  Fun-Size Frolics
  The mini-games, on the other hand, give the opposite impression. Instead of seeming frustrating 
 at first like the main game does, the mini-games are immediately hugely entertaining. While fans 
 of Monkey Target may be disappointed with the new version (there's no ramp, for starters) , with 
 exactly 50 mini-games on offer we'd put good money on there being something here for everyone. 
 
  
  One of our favourites mini-games is Disk Golf, a golf-type mini-game that involves throwing a Frisbee 
 around on a golf course and trying to break a glass case containing a bunch of bananas (with the 
 Wii Remote being 'thrown' Frisbee-style - while you remember not to let go, obviously) . 
  
  But that's just our personal favourite. You may be a fan of the shoot 'em up-style Asteroid Crash, 
 or the pub-game classic that is Monkey Darts. Then there's Monkey Race, which sees you taking part 
 in a five-course grand prix by holding the Remote sideways in the now default 'racing game' position.
 
  
  The only potential problem here is the probable lifespan of some of these games. Whereas the likes 
 of Ring Toss, Monkey Bowling and Monkey Darts will warrant repeated plays and encourage gamers 
 to try to beat their high scores, many of the games (Monkey Boxer, Paper Sumo Fighter and Monkey 
 Wars to name but a few) may only get played a couple of times before they're never touched again. 
 
  
  
  
  The fact that there are so many games, however, means that it's not all bad news, because even 
 if you ignore 30 of them you've still got 20 great mini-games you'll play over and over again. 
 We suppose it's a case of horses for courses, only with monkeys.
  
  Roll With It
  Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz will both infuriate and enthral Monkey Ball fans in equal measure. 
 While the main game's controls take some getting used to, the 50 mini-games offer (if nothing else) 
 some extremely inventive uses for the Wii Remote and show off the amazing versatility of Nintendo's 
 new console. 
  
  Get hold of a friend (or three) and the mini-games will take on a whole new level of entertainment, 
 but as a single-player game some of them may lose their shine. Regardless, this is a title you 
 should be considering come Wii launch, especially if you're a fan of the other Monkey Ball games. 
 Just don't expect love at first sight - you'll need to work on this relationship 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wescash
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 8, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Banana Blitz is one of those games that you are going to love from the beginning, or you're going 
 to throw your wii remote out the window because you can't get that monkey to roll just right... 
 I felt that the controls work great -they aren't as precise as some people would want them, but 
 I think that makes the whole game work better. It is quite funny and requires a steady hand to 
 maneuver your primate successfully throughout the cleverly designed levels. The multiplayer games 
 aren't great; you could easily find better games to play with friends; but what's there (50 games) 
 is okay and some of these are just as enjoyable as games from wii play and wii sports. The single 
 player mode is the most fun and it is mighty hard to unlock the last 2 worlds. Don't be surprised 
 if you can't, it will take a lot of skill and a bit of luck. The boss battles are done well, and 
 the ability to save replays is a fantastic option. You will get frustrated playing BB, but when 
 you have completed that last jump perfectly, it is always worth it. If you are looking for a unique 
 and challenging game for the wii, here it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cubivore10
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  To be frank, I hated this game when I first got it, but after I got the hang of the controls, I 
 loved it! This new installment to the Monkey Ball series, offers all sorts of new stuff. They have 
 new levels, bosses, mini games, a new style, and two new playable characters: Yanyan, and Doctor. 
 The game is the same basic thing, but you have to keep the remote steady, and turn it left, or 
 right to control your monkey, but one false move, and game over! The game can be a hand full (No 
 pun intended) to get used to, but once you do, I can almost be sure that you will grow to like 
 this game, and least more so. And when you have friends over, you can all take part in the mini 
 games, for up for four players! Although the game is fun, very fun, actually, there are a couple 
 flaws. I think there should be a classic controller option to control. The Wii remote is a nice 
 new feature, but for the people that can't get the hang of it, or like the old Gamecube way, that 
 should still be an option for them. Long story short: get it, its so much fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LK9988
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Good Stuff:
  .Great music.
  .50 Party games.
  .Bosses.
  .You can actually jump.
  
  Bad Stuff:
  .UNFORGIVABLE controls.
  .Due to the controls, most party games fail at being fun.
 
  .Bosses are stupid.
  .BRUTAL difficulty (and that's being soft on it!)
  
  OK. This game would actually be a pretty good one if it didn't have one thing... UNFORGIVABLE controls.
 
  
  You have to pretty much swing your wii remote like the baseball bat in wii sports just swinging 
 it left or right, thus humiliating yourself... Just to select menu options! This is the least bad 
 thing about the controls. Next, I'll go onto the story-mode. It's like in other super monkey ball 
 games where you have to complete stages without falling off. The stages do have pretty cool music 
 which is one of the only good things about this game and the levels are designed pretty well too.
 
  
  Now, I'll talk about the controls in the story-mode. The places where you have to hold down your 
 wii remote is embarrasing! You don't even wanna know about it!
  
  As you would be able to see, this would make it much more harder to control the game and it does 
 make you die a load of times. This is why it is BRUTAL in difficulty. I can remember wanting to 
 smash my wii about 10,000 times.
  
  The bosses are stupid too. with your embarrasing controls, you must kill kiddish bosses and you 
 have to hit them in a plaster (usally placed around their butts) and this kind of ruins bosses.
 
  
  Now. There are 50 party games which is a verrrrrrrrrrrry big amount and the most that have ever 
 been in a super monkey ball game. Due to the controls, only about 5 minigames are kind of fun to 
 play as they still suffer from kind of bad controls. The controls in most party games makes them 
 impossible and you'll end up being so stressed out, you'll want to break your wii in anger.
  
  Here's the summing up:
  
  Graphics: Their far too kiddish, but the graphics are actually 
 pretty good. 7/10
  
  Story: Although there is a story mode, there is no storyline, how weird! N/A
  
  Sound: Ugh, 
 CURSE YOU STUPID MONKEY NOISES!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 2/10
  
  Music: Some sounds are horrible, but others are great! 8.5/10
  
  Gameplay: It's like your normal 
 super monkey ball game, but with more party games and stupid controls. 6/10
  
  Overall: Unless you like stupid controls or your just weird, this game is best advoided! 5/10
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Justinge3
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 26, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Well. Super Monkey Ball Banana Blitz. Many have bought this game for the stimulating and colorful 
 visuals. The monkey ball series has had a great reputation on the ol gamecube, but the sereies 
 has fallen so low. Lets start on when you click on the game in the Wii menu. You are forced to 
 hear the monkeies humming a strange tune, and I sounds just plain stupid. The menu navigation is 
 a mess, you hold the wii mote upward and tilt, and its extremely inaccurate and seems more of a 
 chore than an innovation. All 50 minigames are either...
  
  -%5 Works, but boring after first play
  -%45 Nearly works, but is almost broken
  -%50 is completely 
 broken
  
  As you would see, 50 minigames sounds like a good deal, but take into consideration the extremely 
 poor quality put into them.
  
  Now we have the Broken story mode. You are forced to listen to ear breaking and repetive music 
 throught. The controls are completely broken, but your forced to use this joke of a control scheme. 
 Sure the levels look cool, but are abysmal to play. I played through the whole story mode and died 
 over 200 times.
  
  Overall, avoid it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toolzz360
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 18, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Compliments:
  - Very cool concept and design
  - Sometimes good graphics
  
  
  Complaints:
  -Horrible Control Scheme
  -Very Short game made terribly longer by bad boss fights 
 and some extremely difficult sections
  -Only a handful of the 50 mini games are even worth attempting
  
  
  
  
  Super Monkey 
 Ball Banana Blitz offered a little fun at first but from the first minute you play the quality 
 will spiral downhill until you can not take it anymore.
  
  Super Monkey Ball is often hailed as being a game that uses the wii controller to its fullest potential, 
 but I could not understand how someone would even think that after playing the game. It seems like 
 the wii remote would be a good fit for this type of game, but it simply does not have enough precision 
 to accurately guide your monkey across the courses. You will find yourself moving the wii remote 
 crazily just to keep your monkey on a somewhat straight path. You will also find that the controls 
 often times cause you to fall off the course or miss hitting a boss. 
  
  The single player portion of the game has the player going through 8 stages with 8 levels and a 
 boss fight and each stage. This at first may seem like a solid length for a game but each level 
 in a stage will only take you a max of 2 minutes to complete. The overall length for all of the 
 stages is about 4-6 hours depending how good you are, but a few tough stages and boss fights will 
 take up most of that time and it feels like the game should be 2-3 hours in length. The concept 
 and some of the level designs are good but the stages are very difficult made even harder by wonky 
 controls. 
  
  The second aspect of the game is the multiplayer mode which consists of 50 party games (the wii 
 is the king of party games) . Some of the games are very good such as monkey disc golf and paper 
 sumo fighter but a good 40 out of the 50 games are just terrible and also have horrible control 
 options.
  
  The graphics and sound offer nothing extraordinary, but some of the stages look very cool.
  
 
  Overall I cannot recommend buying this game at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tireyo643
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 10, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz is a good game but not quite the game it should be. The game might 
 be a little bit too inspired by other games not in the Super Monkey Ball series (Games like Mario 
 Party and Rayman Raving Rabbids) . However, it still provides the challenge that we can expect in 
 Super Monkey Ball. It may not have as many levels as the other games in the series, but it is still 
 a great game for what it has. The mini-games are great in number, but not in quality (for some) . 
 Banana Blitz might be a disappointment to hardcore fans, but at least it's an improvement from 
 Super Monkey Ball Adventure (I rented Super Monkey Ball Adventure and did not care for it, so there 
 will not be a review on this game unless I decide to buy it and play it for a while longer) . I 
 give Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz an 8 because there a couple of disappointments and the game 
 could of been so much more. Rent this game first if you are not sure on what you are really getting. 
 Also, remember that there are 10 worlds, not 8. Complete the first 8 levels without a continue 
 to get world 9, and complete world 9 without a continue to get world 10. The Monkeys are back on 
 another ball rolling adventure! Do you think you can handle it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packster
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2008 12:17 am PT
Review:  - [opening comment] -
  The Super Monkey Ball had to make some changes to put it's name onto the Wii, first, the controls 
 scheme, which fits the game greatly, tilting forward to move forward, left to go left, and right 
 to go right, it's very responsive and very fun. And the Graphics took a more cel-shaded like look, 
 and it looks great!
  
  - [Gameplay] -
  Super Monkey Ball Banana Blitz is controled with the wii-remote, tilting to move back and forth 
 and left to right, it's a great, responsibe, and fun way to control monkey ball. The only fault 
 to the control scheme is the lack of camera control that really makes the game harder. 
  New additions such as jumping is a welcome addition to the series, but the best new feature are 
 boss battles, some memorable and other generic, but a fun addition to the series also.
  -MINIGAMES-
  There are 50 minigames, 3/4 of them are great, and the others are duds. Games like 
 Monkey Wars are good enough to be (with more features added, of course) to become fully fledged 
 games, and so are alot more. They all (almost) have unique uses of the wii-remote.
  [Score-9]
  
  - [Graphics] -
  The new cel-shaded/cartoonyish graphics are really great looking, 
 it's a very great looking game with fluient animations. The soundtrack is also very good a will 
 get stuck in your head over the day.
  [Score-9]
  
  [Value]
  With the added addition of the Minigames, you'll get a long multiplayer experience, but single 
 player, the story is only about 4-5 hours, it would've been shorter, but this game gets extremly 
 difficult around the middle of the game.
  [Score-8]
  
  [Tilt]
  Great fun for a group of friends, and a fun, but frusterating solo story mode, Monkey Ball is a 
 fun experience that will have you playing for awhile and be dedicated to finish the story mode.
 
  [Score-9]
  
  Final Score
  [9.0]
  ---
  [10]
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwefanforlife
Rating: 4
Date: May 10, 2008 6:15 am PT
Review:  Super Monkey Ball on the Wii is rather awkward you use your Wii remote to move around it gets tricky. 
 The graphics are great better then what it was like in the Gamecube version.
  
  The Wii nunchuck should of been used in the main game it would of made it less confusing. With 
 another add to this game there are boss stages this becomes annoying with bad camera angles which 
 will cause you to fall over the edge. 
  
  The mini games are boring and the stupid thing is you cannot pause the game while your playing 
 or you can reset your Wii. Even if your bored of the game you can't leave unless you finish the 
 mini game this is the same in the main mode. 
  
  Banana Blitz though is still better then what Super Monkey Ball Adventure had to offer. The game 
 is OK but takes a while getting used to but if you want a good control system stick with the Gamecube 
 version Super Monkey Ball 1 and 2. Since buying this game I have only played it 2 times I wount 
 play it again it's annoying me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: togo2828
Rating: 7
Date: May 3, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  You could say that this game is perfect for those who've never played a supermonkey game. I, as 
 a classic supermonkey ball player, find it a little bit hard to adapt to the wii remote from the 
 anlog stick. Especially since I'm right-handed. (This game specifically uses left handed control) Anyway, 
 while previous supermonkeyball games had longish story mode and few minigames, this one has the 
 opposite. The story mode has an unevenly 8 worlds. While the others had a comfy 10. 8 stages in in 
 each world, and then a boss. lives are present in story mode and the difficutly goes from easy to 
 hard to easyish. The minigames have 50 you can play, but few actually make sense, which are mostly 
 the classics. plus, some have a bad connection with the wii remote like whackamole. Some are well... just 
 plain senstive and stupid... like monkey trombone. Not stated anywhere in the game, the monkies 
 have different ablities like speed and jumping height. speaking of jumping, the jump ability is 
 a shock for classic players, but it fits in pretty ok. Downside is that it's very random. If you 
 wanna go forward, but you accidently roll backward while pressing the a button, you jump backward. Definitly 
 a big annoyence (spelling bad i know) on small brigde stages. All and all, this game is just, ok. It's 
 not bad, or good. Compared to the other games, it's not "broken", even with it's unfamilar problems. More 
 like ''dented''. But it is fun, and that's all that counts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Super monkey ball: banana blitz is a great game and I think anybody with a wii should play, becuse 
 the controls are amazing and very precise, and the multi-player is fun. It's just a great game 
 that deserves to be played.
  I realy think they should have cut back on the mini-games and have like 10 great mini-games instead 
 of 50 so-so mini-games. Although there are a few gems in the mini-games that I still go back and 
 play to this day (and I bought this game at launch) the majoity of the mini-games aren't worth 
 playing more then once. The single play is absolutly amazing, I realy realy enjoyed it. Except 
 or it being too hard for it's own good, the single player is perfect. Although I didn't actualy 
 beat the game. (I can't beat the last level on the last world.) Due to it being nearly impossible. 
 That aside, I realy realy like this game and I think you should go out and buy it.
  
  good: likable charecters.
  monkeys.
  addictive.
  monkeys.
  immersive.
  monkeys.
  a few 
 great mini-games.
  monkeys.
  Near perfect single-player.
  did I say monkeys?
  
  bad: TOO hard!!
  Most of the mini-games are trash.
  yam-yam is a pointless monkey. (I don't like 
 her)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 26, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  I can say with quite a degree of confidence that the Super Monkey Ball series is among the weirdest 
 game franchises ever created. Who would have ever thought that a hugely popular game series would 
 have derived from cute little monkeys rolling around in plastic balls? Paradoxes of game-creation 
 aside, Super Monkey Ball has quite a following, so it was no surprise to anybody that a Wii iteration 
 was scheduled for the system's launch. However, thanks to some recent crummy installations in the 
 series, it may be quite a surprise that it's actually a very fun game.
  
  -------------------------------------------------
  
  I sit sadly in my small plastic ball, 
 anticipating the next dare-devil course that awaits me. I have just passed through another golden 
 gate, and after floating around in mid-air for a few seconds, it's off to another course. I look 
 out through the heavy glass screen that encloses me, and see a teenage kid with a look of determination 
 on his face. I guess it's time
  
  Without warning, the ground on which my plastic ball rests tilts violently forward. As I'm trapped 
 in a sphere, I have no choice but to suddenly roll down the hill that has been created. The ground 
 tilts further and further down, and I speed up quickly; it feels like I'm going to fall!
  
  As suddenly as the ground fell, it becomes flat again, and I begin to slow down. I glimpse back 
 out through the heavy glass separation, and see the teenager with his eyes glued one me. In his 
 right hand he holds a small, white remote. As he tilts the remote up and down, the ground moves; 
 incidentally, it moves in the direction in which he tilts his remote.
  
  I slowly roll to a sharp corner, and the kid outside slowly manipulates the ground. I come incredibly 
 close to the edge of the ground; I brave a peek over and immediately regret it. Should the ground 
 tilt the wrong way, even for an instant, I'm a goner. The kid outside, though, seems to know what 
 he's doing, and I make it safely to the next long, narrow stretch of land. I know what's coming, 
 but I'm still surprised when the ground tilts suddenly again and I fly down the ramp. I'm completely 
 out of control, relying wholly on the teenager outside to keep me on the ground.
  
  Up ahead, I spy another turn, but this one is more gradual. I barely lose any speed as the ground 
 tilts slightly again, and I roll quickly and smoothly through the bend. Ahead, though, is a spectacle 
 that causes me to gasp. In front of me is a huge gap in the ground! I manage to catch another glance 
 of my tormentor, and see him flick his remote quickly up into the air. As soon as this happens, 
 I immediately fly up into the air, helpless, suspended for just a second. As I fly back to earth, 
 I look behind me and see that I have crossed the gap!
  
  The gate is up ahead, and I pass safely through it. Again, for reasons unknown, I am suspended 
 momentarily above the endless blue sky as I celebrate. The boy on the outside of the glass laughs; 
 apparently he thinks it's funny to see a monkey dance. I find it torturous, but I must do it. It's 
 in my programming or something
  
  Suddenly everything blacks out, and I can't see anything. This happens a lot, actuallyin between 
 different courses, I suppose. Despite the tumultuous events of the past few minutes, I can't help 
 but think about the surroundings that I whizzed past. Everything seemed fake, but at the same time 
 believable. The trees looked nice, and the sky looked far too real for my own sanity. In fact, 
 as I take no more than a few seconds to think back to other courses, I can't help but think whoever 
 created this twisted, warped world did go to the trouble to make it look neat. Not necessarily 
 realistic, but very colorful and bright. Not that it helps my helpless situation, of course
  
  My thoughts are cut off suddenly by a blinding show of color; the black has been lifted, and 
 I've got to have another go. But thislooks different. Rather than being at the top of a course, 
 I find myself in the middle of a disk of land suspended over the skythis must be a boss battle!
 
  
  I know immediately that I'm correct as I see a huge buzzard-like bird swoop down onto the disc, 
 apparently intent upon my demise. I close my eyes and scrunch up in my ball, prepared for the worst, 
 when suddenly the disc of land tilts downward. I'm saved! I glance behind me, and see the ugly 
 bird with its beak stuck in the ground. How can I escape? There's no way off!
  
  However, it seems that escape is not in the mind of the teen outside the glass. He suddenly tilts 
 the land back toward the bird. He flicks his wrist again, but this time I know what to expect. 
 I suddenly float up into the air, and onto the bald head of the would-be predator! It seems that 
 attack is the only way to escape this prison in the sky.
  
  This game of cat and mouse continues on; many times I miss the bald creature's wicked, curved beak 
 by just inches, but miraculously I remain unhurt. Finally, after stunning the bird for an uncountable 
 (at least for me) number of times, the bird flies off! I'm left alone on the disc for a few seconds; 
 what now? Suddenly, I am whisked off the disc yet again, and the screen blacks. This time, the 
 light does not return. I am free to rest, and dream my dreams devoid of frightening teenagers or 
 huge murderous birds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nanasawa
Rating: 1.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  On a rating of 1-5, these are my ratings:
  
  Graphics: 4
  Gameplay: 2
  Difficulty: 4
  Replayability: 1
  
  I got all the way through to the end of the first world before I realised 
 what a mistake I'd made buying it. The graphics are okay, but the music was nice at first but would 
 probably drive you crazy. The thing that messed up everything though was the sensitivity. I'm sure 
 that SEGA had it in our best interests to make the controls super sensitive so that even at the 
 SLIGHTEST movement, it would move. Now that works fine on SP but on party mode? It's downright 
 impossible. It's impossible to do anything in darts, it's impossible to steer in racing because 
 even if the wiimote is straight, your player still turns. Pretty much everything else is probably 
 the same. Had SEGA made the controls more responsive and less sensitive, this may have been an 
 incredible game.
  Unfortunately, it's anything but. Sorry SEGA, but I want a refund. Either that or I'm selling it 
 to a friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anime-ToL
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 16, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  This game was surprisingly good, and it had a plot this time, even though the plot was to get these 
 8 Bronze Bananas that were stolen from them.
  
  Plot 6/10
  
  The plot was nothing special at all, no dialogue at all. The point was to get these 8 Bronze Bananas 
 back from this Monkey pirate and to make through all the challenges that stood in your way. At 
 least they gave the plot a try.
  
  Graphics 9.5/10
  
  The graphics were highly polished which made all the stages look fantastic.
  
  Stage Design 
 8.5/10
  
  The stage design was great and cleaver, and brought a challenge. Sometimes, however, the stages 
 would conflict with certain abilities one had, making you have to quit and lose all those points 
 you built up just to pass it.
  
  Minigames 8/10
  
  Minigames varied. Some were fantasic, and I would highly recomend them, others were ok... but they 
 are fun with friends, but by yourself they're nothing special.
  
  Controls 8/10
  
  The controls were easy at times, but sometimes made it difficult to control the movements of your 
 character. For instance, let's just say that you wanted to turn around and look at the other side. 
 You couldn't do that because of the controls, but instead you'd have to spin in a circle and hope 
 you dont fall off the edge.
  
  Sound 7.5/10
  
  The music was nothing special, and the sound effects were also ok.
  
  Bottom Line 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imask8r9999
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2008 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Super Money ball banana blitz is the type of game the whole family can play from the four player 
 multiplayer to the action-packed single player! So in single player you have about eight different 
 charaters you can choose from. For the first time in the series there actully a story to this game. 
 The point of the game is that in the begining a mean, big, fighting machine monkey who stole the 
 eight characters patch of golden bananas. So far you may think this game sounds childish but it 
 is very fun. So as you progress in the single player mode you play about nine missions until you 
 progress to the next world you unlock one golden banana witch after you beat the game you should 
 have all the bananas to the banana patch. Overall the gameplay is extremly fun and yet VERY VERY 
 difficult. The grphics couldn't get better!! The music chosen for this game is great and the sound 
 is fanominal!!
  that is why I rate this game.... 9.0 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathScape666
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 3, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz is a four player video game that is on the Nintendo Wii. Previous 
 Super Monkey Ball video games have appeared on other systems. While the old Super Monkey Ball video 
 games were good, everyone knew what to expect from them after awhile, but Super Monkey Ball: Banana 
 Blitz's use of the Wii Remote makes it one heck of an experience that you cannot miss! 
  
  The normal game mode is only one player. Simply choose one of the six monkeys, (It really does 
 not matter what monkey you choose, since they only look differently, and do not actually perform 
 in the levels differently.) click a world, and then click a level. 
  
  This video game places a monkey on a stage with tons of obstacles in the way. The object of each 
 level, excluding the bonus levels and the boss fights, is to make it to the big winning circle 
 with a glow in it. It is pretty easy to spot out. In order to move the monkey, you must point the 
 Wii Remote in the direction you wish to move the board. You technically move the board when you 
 are doing the adventure mode, but it does seem as though you are moving the monkey. 
  
  It is not that easy to reach the goal at the end of the level. On the way, there are small platforms 
 that you must jump to without falling off the edge of the board, enemies you must dodge, areas 
 that you have to run through at a fast pace, and much other stuff. The first three or four worlds 
 should not cause you any problems, but after that, you can expect quite a challenge. As you progress 
 through the worlds, you'll notice how there will not be as many walls that will save you if you 
 fall off the board, gaps begin to become smaller, more enemies will appear, more challenging enemies 
 will appear, and a lot more things. Super Monkey: Ball Banana Blitz easily has the most new features 
 the series has ever had. 
  
  There are eight worlds, but two extra worlds can be unlocked by performing what you need to do 
 to unlock it. The ninth world can be unlocked by beating the first eight worlds without any continues, 
 and the tenth world can be unlocked by beating the ninth world without any continues. This task 
 is so extremely difficult that most people will probably never do it. 
  
  To gain access to the next world, excluding the ninth world and the tenth world, you must beat 
 all eight levels in the world, as well as the boss, but you do not have to beat the bonus stage. 
 Each world usually has some theme to it. World Three is an ice world, World Four is an Egyptian 
 World, and World Seven is a volcanic world, just to name a few. 
  
  Some levels feel a little bit too challenging. I did spend over three hours on one level. Most 
 levels are not that difficult, though. It will take a lot of time to beat them once you get to 
 World Four or World Five. The challenge begins to pick up almost too quick. 
  
  While you are doing these levels, you can collect bananas. They only add to your score, and eventually 
 get you an extra life, depending on how many you collect. There is either one banana, or a group 
 of about five bananas that you can collect throughout the stages. They are sometimes placed in 
 the direction that you are headed in, but sometimes they are placed in an area that you do not 
 have to go to complete the level. If you want to try some incredibly difficult challenge, then 
 try collecting every single banana in the video game. That is probably the hardest challenge in 
 any video game, ever. 
  
  The levels do not allow you to take your sweet time. No, instead, depending on the length of the 
 level or how long it will take to complete about, you will either have sixty seconds or one hundred 
 twenty seconds. I also noticed that only one level had thirty seconds. While this seems like little 
 time to complete a level in, it really isn't. I, personally, have about twenty seconds left. There 
 are few instances where you will only have about one or two seconds left, but it could happen if 
 you do not act fast enough. 
  
  The bonus levels are in the middle of a world, and they are just levels that usually place you 
 in a circular area with a couple of holes, and then you collect bananas. Video gamers try to get 
 as many bananas as they can in sixty seconds. It is nothing too great, but it is quite fun to try 
 to beat your record. 
  
  This is the first Super Monkey Ball video game that features bosses in it, I believe, as long as 
 you do not count the Super Monkey Ball adventure video game. These new bosses mostly are pretty 
 simple to beat, and there is even a big arrow pointing to the place where you have to it the boss 
 to damage him before you even start the match! Every single boss is pretty simple to beat, but 
 at least all of them provide something fun to battle against. 
  
  In the past, the Super Monkey Ball video games have had a few mini games, but this installment 
 has fifty mini games! Honestly, there are too many bad ones. Some I cannot even control or I do 
 not understand how to control, so I just avoid it. There are more than a handful of mini games 
 that you will play once, and only once. There are tons of good ones, though, such as Monkey Squash, 
 Monkey Race, and Monkey Target, just to name a few. I feel that the Wii Remote made some mini games 
 too difficult at times, and that they would be better off being played with a normal control stick/controller, 
 but most of these mini games are better with the Wii Remote. 
  
  Most of the mini games are four players, but some are limited to only two players. It is either 
 limited to a minimum of two players, or to a minimum of four players. Some mini games also require 
 the use of the Nunchuck, but most just require the Wii Remote. 
  
  The graphics do look a little kiddy. Most of the bosses had little pinkish parts in their bodies. 
 The series does seem to aim towards younger children, so the graphics to look this way is completely 
 necessary.
  
  The backgrounds and color effect in Super Monkey: Banana Blitz mostly has a very similar background 
 to all the other levels in the world. For example, World Seven has a volcano in the background 
 in almost every one of World Seven's levels. You will be too focused on your monkey to even look 
 at the background, most likely, though. 
  
  The monkeys never really say anything, but this is mostly due to the lack of any real storyline. 
 Players will hear the ball moving as they roll it, and it will grow louder as they roll it fast, 
 and this is a very good way to judge the pace you should go at. There are nice little tunes in 
 every level, but if you are stuck on a level for awhile, you may want to turn the volume down a 
 bit. 
  
  The Super Monkey Ball series has never made a huge appeal to me, but this new entry into the series 
 has made me look at the series in a totally new way. Not only does it make the most use of the 
 Wii Remote; it is also a superb video game that every one with a Wii should definitely consider 
 checking out. 
  
  Overall: 8.3/10
  
  Review created on January 5, 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nivek15
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz can be fun, but it is different from the previous games in the 
 series. The minigames don't have as many settings as the previous games did, but there are 50 minigames. 
 Most of them are ok. You should like at least 40 of them. But some minigames will not work for 
 most players. A good example is Monkey Puzzle. It's flaw is that in Multiplayer, you can hardly 
 see the pieces, and it's hard to remember what it's supposed to look like. But there are some good 
 minigames in the mix, like Monkey Race, one of the best in the previous games, and Monkey War, 
 a first-person shooting game that can be really enjoyable. As you may know, two new monkeys, YanYan 
 and Doctor, have been added to this game, increasing the total number of playable monkeys to 6. 
 In multiplayer, players are (as usual) allowed to pick the same monkey . The Main Game, however, 
 can be a little bit disappointing. There is only Story Mode, and no multiplayer. But its good side 
 is the levelsl can be more fun, as they are larger, have some variety, and can have time limits 
 from only 20 seconds up to 2 minutes. They also added boss battles at the end of each world, but 
 they always spoil the boss's weak point at the beginning of the match, which takes away the fun 
 of figuring it out for yourself. But they can still be pretty hard to beat, and some of them put 
 up a good fight. There are 8 worlds (10 if you include the two secret worlds, which are unlocked 
 by beating Worlds 1-8 without a continue) , and you can change monkeys at any time. I should mention 
 the controls. You tilt the stage with the Wii remote, and you press A to jump. Jumping is a new 
 feature that is taken into account during level design. The monkeys have different abilities, which 
 make it more strategic. Aiai is all around, Meemee can stick her landing best, Baby... I think he's 
 a combination of decent speed and jumping. Gongon can smash through bumpers, which really comes 
 in handy, but he can't jump very high. YanYan is the best jumper, with a maximum height of about 
 6 feet. Doctor can make sharp turns.
  
  Again, Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz is different from the previous games in the series, but 
 it can still be an enjoyable experience. It's really fun in Multiplayer, and the minigames are 
 mostly good, so I give this game a 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljlrj
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 10:49 pm PT
Review:  Super Monkey Ball Banana Blitz Review
  
  I've never been a super fan of really off the wall games. That's not to say I'd never give them 
 a chance, but most times, these sort of off the wall games tend to be hollow and gimmicky to the 
 point where the game feels absolutely stale and ridiculous. I've seen it with games such as Luigi's 
 Mansion and Pikmin. They're not bad, but their one trick pony falls far short of captivating. Needless 
 to say, I avoided Super Monkey Ball on the cube as it just didn't seem too interesting. However, 
 when the a new entry to the series was announced for Wii, my heart stopped because suddenly, the 
 series I never gave a dang about was giving me the goosebumps as to how well it might play under 
 the right control method. Well, SMBBB (S-M, triple B) is absolutely intuitive and an additively 
 entertaining good time!
  
  The moment you grasp the Wii Remote and beginning tilting your wrist to control the pitch and angle 
 of the course where your poor Monkey in a ball is thrown erratically throughout it, it just feels 
 right and plays exceptionally well. Light twists and tilts of your Wii Remote makes the course 
 churn in direct correlation with the angle of the controller. This with the help of the game's 
 gravity, pushes the ball encased monkeys down vertical terrains and ultimately through traps, obstacles 
 and so forth. At the end of every course is a goal which allows you to advance if you can get your 
 monkey through the arch. Along with tilts and wrist twists, you'll also have access to a jump button 
 which allows your monkey to leap. I've heard that past Monkey Ball games have never incorporated 
 such a mechanic and after playing this game, I feel a game without a jump button would feel almost 
 unplayable. It's hilariously fun to see if you can accomplish monster sized leaps at the press 
 of an A button. There are a total of 8 worlds with a couple bonus ones to boot and with an old 
 Nintendo philosophy, "Easy to play, hard to master" flowing through the game's veins... It feels 
 perfect from start to finish! Each area you travel to increases in difficulty ever so slightly 
 until you're at the point where you're literally making leaps of faith and prayers to the gallows 
 as your monkey plummets into his or her wrist controlled destiny. Now, I know many may think, "doesn't 
 this game tire out your wrist and/or arm?" And the answer is a resounding nadda. I never had to 
 worry about fatigue and by all means this game pumps enough action to keep you so occupied that 
 you probably wouldn't even notice the ache even if it were there.
  
  Now the gameplay isn't perfect in one aspect not related to anything I've explained above. There's 
 a mini-game option you can choose from that allows you to play Wii Remote mini-games that are rather 
 lacking in control and design. Some mini-games are simply unplayable and other's are mediocre. 
 You can't bash Ubi for trying but you'd think they'd spend a little more time working out the 45 
 buggy mini-games a little more. There are a small handful of fun ones, I must say. For the main 
 game at least, it's the most fun you can have with your Wii.
  
  The audio and visual presentations are very bubblegum like in that everything has a bouncy, colorful 
 and exciting feel to it. You'll never find yourself bored to death with the scenery and the massively 
 beautiful courses you'll be throwing your monkey through. The music is always banging along with 
 heart pounding techno rave themes and with each world having its own unique style, I hail this 
 sort of title a walloping success! Those stupid monkey screams of joy though can get on your nerves... 
 Yaaaaay!! *high pitched squeek*
  
  All considering, the replay value can be high. I'm sure the main adventure will engage the player 
 for 10 hours or so. The mini-games are a bit of a mixed effort and with the help of a friend, there 
 may be hope for those willing to look for it. Ultimately, SMBBB is excellent! It has a few tarnished 
 spots but those can be easily overlooked and even ignored entirely! This is a game for if you enjoy 
 puzzle like action and/or have an odd affection towards enslaved monkeys in balls. Get your Monkey 
 Ball on now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fallen-Emanuel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  This games is one of the games that should be included in your to buy list if you have a wii and 
 especially if you liked monkey ball 2 for the game cube. 
  
  This games is divided in two sections the "party mode" section and the "story mode" section. 
 
  
  
  
  the party mode section is just what the name tells you, if you want to have fun with friends play 
 this, it's the multi-player mode of the game, although it can still be fun (but not as much) with 
 one player, if you live with your family or like playing with friends this is this section is reason 
 enough to own this game. 
  
  I haven't really counted but i assume that there are 50 mini-games in this section, but may i add 
 some of these are massive. you can do anything from just playing a simple sport like squash to 
 trying to land your space ship. There are lots of good games but my favourites are: Monkey Wars, 
 Snow boarding, Monkey race and Frisbee golf, there are other but i just can't remember names out 
 of all the games there are. yes as you may expect there are some mini-games with a bad use of the 
 wii remote, but there are just about 3 or 4 of those and when you have 50 then 4 is easy to over 
 look. but that's it those 4 games are just the only bad thing about this game.
  
  
  this section is really good, although it may be a bit hard at first you can get the hang of it 
 really quickly. there's really not much to explain about this other than to beat it you have to 
 think that the 3D platform you are playing on is in your hands (literally) because whichever way 
 you tilt the wii remote the platform tilts that way. 
  
  
  Overall:
  
  Graphics: 10 -they are perfect, i don't see how they could get better for monkey ball, they are 
 really true to the monkey ball look.
  
  Sound: 10 - the music really gets you in the mood to play the game itself.
  
  Game play: 9 
 -i games for every person but some people may not like the story mode
  
  Tilt: 10 - 'nough said
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Burning_October
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz is one of the Wii's best games. It's got great controls, fun, addictive 
 gameplay, and some really fun mini games. The game also controls great for the most part, though 
 some of the mini games are almost broken in that respect. There are 50 party games, though, and 
 enough of them work well to make them a good addition to the main game. The main mode of the game 
 has you tilting the games levels with the remote. The control works impressively well, and the 
 game is extremely fun. The goal is to roll your monkey to the end of the course. This gets extremely 
 difficult in later levels, and you'll find yourself falling off the sides of levels frequently. 
 Even so, the game keeps you playing, and you rarely get frustrated. Overall, this is a great wii 
 game. It has a fun, difficult single player mode, and it's great for party. A must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeysrfat
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 6, 2007 12:50 am PT
Review:  Super monkey ball banana blitz is a game where you have to control a monkey in a ball over a stage 
 with varying obstacles into a goal. In banana blitz rather than controlling the monkey you control 
 the stage with the wiimote. If you turn the wiimote say to the right, you move the stage right 
 and therefore your monkey moves to the right. The controls are strange and clumsy at first, but 
 you soon get used to it and it becomes very fun. Super monkey ball is a very fun game and has many 
 positives, however there are some aspects of the game that could've been done a lot better. Firstly 
 the main game in Super monkey ball is very good. There are 8 worlds (2 unlockable) . And while they 
 start off very easy they soon become really difficult and frustrating near the end. The courses 
 are mostly well designed and are pretty fun. Although some near the end are rediculously hard. 
 So if you like a challenge this game will give you one. The main game is also a tad short if all 
 you do is complete the 8 worlds, but if you want to collect all the bananas and if you want to 
 unlock the last two courses which believe me is pretty difficult than the game has a lot of replay 
 value. There is also a nice feature which lets you save a replay off a course you did. Its not 
 a major feature but its a nice add on. Ok now onto the minigames. Well lets just say the quality 
 is wildly inconsistent. Around half of them control well, while the other half of them are virtually 
 uncontrollable. And while half of them control well and are fun, they are often quite shallow meaning 
 you probably won't be coming back to them. To me the minigames were a let down. Some of them were 
 great like monkey wars and racing and some of them seemed like last minute add ons like frog leap. 
 It would've been better had they erased all the pointless ones and used the time to improve on 
 the good minigames and the main game. The graphics were very colourful and easy on the eye. The 
 monkeys and world got a completely new artstyle which suits the game. Some of the worlds especially 
 smooth sherbert look beautiful. The only problem it had was a hint of slowdown when things got 
 really hectic. however this was very rare and hardly affected the gameplay. The sound was mostly 
 fine. Some worlds music was better than others but overall it did the job. Sometimes the music 
 can be a bit to cheerful which can get on your nerves. Overall super monkey ball banana blitz is 
 definitely worth a look. It may have some faults and can be annoying sometimes, but it is definitely 
 very fun. Especially the single player 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harsadi
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is spoiled by the unbelievable difficulty, I had a lot of fun playing it until I reached 
 World 7. The mini games are decent, about 25 of them are worth playing several times, but the rest 
 are too simple or lack good controls.
  Sega should've made the levels less challenging and more fun instead of frustrating. This game 
 could have been something great. I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thk123
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  System: Wii
  Type: Puzzle/Adventure
  Graphics: 7.5/10
  Sound: 7.5/10
  Gameplay:8/10
  Story: N/A
  Multiplayer: 8/10
  
  Overall: 7.5/10
  
  Super Monkey Ball was the surprise 
 success for the GC which involved a fun single player a 3 simple multiplayer games that had equal 
 appeal to both veterans and novices alike. This premise makes it an excellent title for the Wii, 
 but how does it hold up?
  
  The single player is a shinning point for this game. The games main campaign feels as if originally 
 intended for the Wiimote. For those who are unaware of the series, the single player involves steering 
 a monkey in a ball (!) along a perilous path by tilting the ground which the ball resides. The 
 game adds a jump button and this fits seamlessly in to the game, allowing for much more imaginative 
 puzzles restricted by nothing. The puzzles are well developed and the difficulty increases steadily 
 throughout the game. It takes about 1 minute to get used to the controls and I have never had any 
 Wiimote malfunctions which would have no doubt ruin the delicate control scheme. The length of 
 the game is, although not breathtaking, will probably keep you going for quite a long time. The 
 game features 7 worlds, each featuring 8 maps. At the the end of each world, you must fight a boss. 
 These, although feel less polished than the rest of the game, are simple and fun. The bosses are 
 amusing in designed and work well. They serve as a very nice ending to the world and offer an extra 
 challenge to the best as collecting the bananas on the boss levels is particularly challenging. 
 There appears to be some bug that inhibits the replaying of certain levels, but this is more of 
 an annoyance than anything else.
  
  The multiplayer is less consistent. The game boasts 50 multiplayer modes This figure is somewhat 
 misleading as there are only 11 you would ever come back to. On the other hand, one must remember 
 that having 11 MP games is very good. Still, it is a shame they wasted time and resources making 
 'Simon Says' instead of an extra map for 'Monkey Wars' . Highlights in the multiplayer include 
 the aforementioned Monkey Wars, where you shoot other monkeys, the classic monkey race and series 
 favourite that has you parachuting on to a target. Monkey Wars is a fantastic example that even 
 in the individual multiplayer games, the Wiimote has been used well. Aiming is naturally done by 
 pointing at the screen, however, what really makes you feel inside the game is to chuck a grenade 
 you hold c and flick the 'Mote. As simple and insignificant this may seem, it works supremely well. 
 Another good point about the MP is that the classic SSMB games have been adapted almost perfectly 
 to suit the Wiimote. You barely notice that instead of a joystick you are tilting your hand. The 
 maps however, is a problem, the MP lacks any serious re playability, particularly in the map department. 
 For example, 'Monkey Race' has only 5 tracks, and that is one of the most. Creating maps is, compared 
 to creating full blown games, probably quite easy. Why they didn't bundle some extra maps is beyond 
 me. Monkey Wars, as great as it is, loses a lot of value when you realise it only has 3 quite small 
 maps. Simon says in one of the 39 weak titles in the MP line up. The rest range from poor to absolutly 
 rubbish. Some of the games are rubbish because of poor execution, as is the case in Monkey Bowling 
 where you have no determinable effect on the outcome of the game, others are just stupid ideas, 
 like Simon Says. Overall, you have to just ignore the rubbish titles and just pretend there are 
 only good ones.
  
  The game has a very nice graphical feel. The game will not win any awards for it, but with its 
 bright block colours, it comes across as a fun happy game. There are no points where the graphics 
 are ugly. Some of the multiplayer games, particularly 'Monkey Asteroids' look very nice. Compared 
 with the first two titles, the step up is not always noticeable, but the maps feel much bigger 
 as opposed to the enclosed feel of SMB1+2.
  
  The sound in the game is as mixed as the multiplayer. In some cases it fits the world (a group 
 of levels in a particular theme) perfectly. Where as other times you will end up muting it, it 
 is that bad. The noises the monkeys make and the American commentary adds nothing to the game. 
 The game does not feature huge amounts of SFXs, the ones it does feature do not impact on the game 
 a lot, but certainly do not subtract from it. The sound is something that could definitely be improved 
 upon, but does not cripple the game.
  
  In conclusion Super Monkey Ball is a strong entry for the Wii. The single player is well worth 
 the investment if you have enjoyed other SMB titles. If you have not tried the single player in 
 previous titles, I recommend renting this title first, as the fiddly nature of it means that if 
 it isn't your sort of game, you will just find it frustrating. The MP should keep you and your 
 friends amused for a couple of hours. The presentation is good, not outstanding, but solid as one 
 comes to expect from SMB. The game is by no means perfect and any sequels will surly improve upon 
 the hit and miss style in the MP element. I do however, despite my slight qualms, recommend this 
 game to all Wii owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seniorDK
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  Single-player game makes intuitive use of Wii Remote incredible variety of multiplayer minigames 
 gameplay initially more approachable, but can still present a potent challenge gives series much-needed 
 visual makeover. The Bad:
  Lack of camera control can be frustrating in some boss battles quality of multiplayer minigames 
 wildly inconsistent single-player game a little to short.
  
  well i rented this game in a week and sadly i beat it an a day, im not bragging im sure any good 
 gamer can do it, this game may be to easy for gamers, but for those 8 year olds this game would 
 be perfect, which is why i rate this game  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gardevoir_1993
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 29, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  The good: A few good minigames
  
  The bad: Most games aren't engaging, Story is too complicated, etc.
  
  Full review: This game 
 absolutely SUCKS. It sounded so good but in reality it's so bad. Though Monkey Wars can be great 
 fun, as can Alien Attack, that's about as engaging as it gets,. The other games are unengaging, 
 boring or just plain crap. Oh, and story mode. It is downright terrible. It is WAAAAY too hard 
 to control and probably wouldn't be much fun anyway with its endless twists, turns and obstacles. 
 Definitely not my cup of tea. So, if any more must be said, DON'T BUY THE GAME!!! IT IS REALLY 
 REALLY BAD!!! That should break it through, I hope. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: use_da_schwartz
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 27, 2007 10:15 pm PT
Review:  As the Angry Video Game Nerd would say: What's the most important thing about any game? Well, being 
 able to ****ing play it!
  
  Gameplay: 18/30. Do NOT get me wrong! The main game is fine. not quite as frustrating as the main 
 game of Monkey Ball 2. Some people like the ridiculous challenge, some like it a little bit on 
 the not so impossible side. I was okay with the main game. The boss fights are also a neat addition. 
 My real beef is with the minigames. Yeah there are 50 of them. Unfortunately, only about 5 or 6 
 of them actually WORKED! I kinda liked having 12 long-lasting minigames that were good party games 
 that WORKED! Not 50 where 1/10 of them are halfway decent. Did they even try with these. Truly 
 disgusting.
  
  Graphics: 12/15. Another thing that disappointed me. In Monkey Ball 2, visuals weren't Da Vinci 
 worthy, but they were decent, and everything ran smoothly. In this one, You got worse visuals, 
 and not everything runs smoothly. I'm thinking: What? The addition of two pointless characters 
 has to make the graphics suffer? Bah!
  
  Sound: 10/10. Minigames may not have been great, and the graphics could've been better, but the 
 music is phenominal. Value: 10.5/15. Because the main game had less frustrating levels than 2, 
 I was able to beat the first 8 worlds in a rental. I never unlocked the other 2 because I think 
 I know how I'm supposed to get it. I said the main game was less frustrating than 2, not easy. 
 I'm pretty sure that I need to beat the first 8 worlds without continuing. If I'm wrong, tell me. 
 Plus with only a few working minigames that are fun, this won't last very long as far as multiplayer 
 goes. It makes me glad I rented this one.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 21/30. I had originally heard that this game was pretty bad, but to be honest, 
 I thought it was gonna be worse than this. Half of it was fine. The other, not so much. Note: Since 
 I can't rate with the old scoring system, I've decided to clone it and use it in my reviews. Except 
 it looks a little different. Basically what I've done, is that I've made my scores out of 100 instead 
 of 10. I've also put in the actual values of each score. For example, gameplay would have the same 
 1-10 scale as the other values, but it would be worth 3 points of the overall score. Well, I've 
 decided to make gameplay (and tilt) out of 30 instead of 10, and value and graphics out of 15 . 
 Do you catch my drift? It's tough to explain. By the way, all the scores whether they be out of 
 10, 15 or 30, will translate to a fraction that involves a 10 as the denominator. It seems stupid, 
 but it makes it easier for me to add. I may be a math honors student, but that doesn't mean that 
 I want to think too hard about something that should be simple. Also, since I can only increase 
 and decrease my overall score by .5. If the final score ends between .1 and .2 or .6 and .7, it 
 will be rounded down to .0 or .5 (ex: 8.2=8.0, 8.7=8.5) . If the number ends between .25 and .4 
 or .75 and .9, it will be rounded up to the nearest .5 or .0 (ex: 8.4=8.5, 8.8=9.0) . You'll catch 
 on. You may not have even read this. Cause this isn't really part of the review. With that said, 
 here's the final score:
  
  71.5/100=7.15/10= 7.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingX
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 26, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Banan Blitz takes the Wii Remote to new heights!
  Persoanlly I think this easily goes into the top 5 titles for the Wii since it its very well balanced.
 
  
  It begins real easy on the first worlds, kinda letting you get used to the Wii remote.. then it 
 goeso n and gets harder and harder and the later worlds sure will give you big challanges.
  
  This game can be played just as insane as Monkey Ball 1 and 2 since its up to you if you wanna 
 stick to the path given or begin to try bump jumps, shortcuts etc.
  It also comes with 50 minigames some that are plain fun and some that just feels like they could 
 have been left out (mostly due to faulty remote controls)
  
  If you are looking for a fun party game to you Wii look this one up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluffykins8
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz is a game I sort of picked up on a whim. I was shopping with my 
 dad and I was thinking about getting a shooting game but he said I should get something for me 
 and my little sister. Well I chose Monkey Ball. Everything turned out pretty well, it had good 
 graphics, a seemingly never endless slew of clever and a few not so clever mini-games (there were 
 50) , and the story was challenging enough to make me sweat, and easy enough for my little sister 
 to enjoy. There was just one problem... the sound : ( . The sound of this game was fun at first but 
 after a few times the music was splitting my eardrums. Also the volume was just horrific, my parents 
 have yelled at me for having it to loud when the volume was on 1. And to be frank, the music was 
 just to dang repetitive. Anyway if you like Monkey Ball get this game, (plus, who doesn't like 
 collecting floating bananas) . But folks with sensitive ears, rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PeterPerson
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Oh... My... GOD! This is the worst exuse for a game EVER! i seriously only phad to play this for 
 about 15 mins to realize what a mistake I'd made renting it. The controls are horrible! Just picking 
 a stage is hard! They make you swing the Wiimote side to side to choose the stage! Ugh! Ok... so... 
 The gameplay is hard to control and not fun! its like a really long and boring minigame, its alllllmmost 
 fun. i cant even believe they were aloud to make this. i also cant beleive gamespot gave it an 
 8 something. i mean... really. an utterly disastrous game. if you could even manage to call it 
 a game.
  
  wow... just... abysmal.
  
  *shudders* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king_bobo
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 6, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Although Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz has 50 minigames, and a main story mode, for some reason 
 it isn't engaging enough to maintain attention for as long as it should. The graphics and sounds 
 can at times be slightly irritating, due to it's over-the-top toddler style that mains that half 
 of the time the sounds sound as if they'd do best in a children's TV program. Graphically, although 
 it looks the way it was probably intended, the colours slightly over-power itself and make the 
 colours clash and strain on the eyes, whilst the characters seem irratating as none of them appea 
 to be over the age of 5. The single player gameplay is entertaining for a while, but it would seem 
 that they developers spent the majority of their time on the minigames, which is probably best, 
 seeing as the main game gets irratating and too difficult torwards later stages. Sadly the minigames, 
 although imaginative, don't seem to grasp and engage one's attention and excite one as much as 
 most Wii games would. At the same time the games aren't face-paced enough for them to work as party 
 games so the whole game just doesn't quite work. Super Monkey Ball could have done so much better 
 if they had just upped the pace of the games and made the characters slighlty less irratating. 
 Sadly because of a few small, but fatal problems Banana Blitz just doesn't have enough to compete 
 with other Wii party games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zuta917
Rating: 5.1
Date: Aug 2, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  There has never been such a frustrating game to date. in the game, youll basically be rolling a 
 monkey in a all around in dozens of extremely hard courses and fighting retarded bosses. and you 
 may think I might just be bad at games, which I'm not. The games grapics get the job done, but 
 the sound is almost as frustrating as the gamelay. youll hear basically the same crappy music throughout 
 the levels, and it will drive you nuts. The control scheme is horrible and makes the game feel 
 very hard to play. The learning curve is pretty good, but as soon as you get the hang of the game, 
 it will shove you into nearly impossible to beat worlds. But the game does include 50 minigames, 
 and some of them are actually pretty fun. But, the mojority of the games are useless, and once 
 you play them, you will NEVER want to play them again. overall, the game is terrile and shouldnt 
 even be considered good to rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzureCuzYeah
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jul 29, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz is a odd game that takes advantage of the Wii mote in various ways. 
 The single player mode you are a monkey who just had bronze bananas stolen from you by a large 
 pirate baboon. In order to get them back you need to put yourself fin a bubble and roll yourself 
 using the Wii mode and tilting it forward/back and side to side. The single player is a one trick 
 pony that gets extremely boring rather quickly. Instead I think the majority of people who get 
 this game will be more interested in the Mini-games that come with it. Monkey Ball has 50 Mini-games 
 that can be played with up to 4 people. From what I gathered the mini games are extremely hard 
 or just extremely buggy. The Wii mote does not pick up many of the actions, you need to perform, 
 well in the mini games. As you struggle in the first 3 mini-games you start to realize that nothing 
 is going to change. Personally I found only one minigame I enjoyed.
  
  I find super money ball a disappointment. This is a rent/avoid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: palooka123
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jul 16, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  Basicly the game is kinda fun. But the controls for this game SUCK. This is one of the worst game 
 controls ive ever played. The storyline is nice and its a fun game for younger kids. But nothing 
 beats SMB 2. The graphics aren't bad. The game is 50 dollers. Its an ok price for it but still 
 i would only truly pay about 30 dollars. but if you used the nunchuck to move i would pay 50. But 
 tilting the wii remote.... now thats just sad. I think nintendo was in a big rush to make this game. 
 Please rent it first. Cuz some people might like it. Thats just my thought about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMooseman
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 22, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Super Monkey Ball rolls onto the Wii with a solid single player mode, loads of decent mini-games 
 and a pretty good control scheme. The game isn't exactly very taxing in terms of difficulty, but 
 it is a good game to have a nice play on without making you sweat.
  
  The control in the game is obviously unique to the Wii contoller. It involves you tilting the remote 
 in the direction you want your monkey to roll to and pressing A to jump. It has been well thoughtout 
 except for a minor issue - when things are getting tense and nearing towards the three second countdown 
 or when there is a thin ledge you need to go across, the controls let you down as they aren't tight 
 enough and you'll find yourself blaming the controls more than your gaming skill (or lack thereof) .
 
  
  In the single player mode you have to work your way round a bunch of different themed courses collecting 
 bananas and avoiding obsticles. Although there are no enemies as such there are things that will 
 attempt to shove you off the course and lose your life.
  
  There are a vast number of multiplayer mini-games (around about 50) in Super Monkey Ball and most 
 of them are up to good standard and even if you don't like some, you've still got a load of other 
 ones to choose from. Some mini-games are stuff like balancing your monkey while it walks across 
 a tightrope or a slightly Mario Kart style racer. Other games include (but are not limited to) 
 Simon Says, Monkey Battle and bowling.
  
  Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz is a good game for the Wii and it really is a friendly game to 
 use which makes you feel all warm and fuzzy inside when you use it. A Wii must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GunSmith1_basic
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 10, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Main game: prepare for a difficult game! This is a long quest that will send more monkeys to their 
 peril than those that get to jump through those goal hoops. I don't even want to attempt to earn 
 those extra stages, as beating the game is good enough for me. It was a fun ride while it lasted, 
 and the bosses are a really great touch. The jumping ability is good as well.
  
  Minigames: Varied. I don't like how they revamped monkey bowling, monkey target, and monkey golf. 
 Luckily, there are so many minigames that some are bound to hit. Monkey wars, those hover battle 
 stages, monkey race, that underwater exploring level, that arcade style shooter, and some others. 
 Some games fail hard like the puzzle game and rock/ paper/ scissors game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hungry_Homer111
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 21, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  In 2001, Sega released a game called Super Monkey Ball. It was a game similar to marble games, 
 such as Marble Madness. In this game, the player had to guide a monkey that was inside of a clear 
 plastic ball through a course filled with obstacles, holes, narrow paths and other things in order 
 to reach the goal at the end of the course without falling off the course. Unlike other marble 
 games, this game had the player tilt the course that the monkey was on, instead of controlling 
 the monkey itself. The game was easy to play, making the player only use the controller's analog 
 stick in order to tilt the course. It didn't have players press any other buttons. However, as 
 simple as it was to play, it through challenges at the players to test their patience and their 
 skills as gamers.
  
  This formula was so successful that it warranted different sequels, and a spinoff adventure/platformer 
 game.
  
  Sega announced the game Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz as a Wii exclusive game, which would be 
 released for launch. Many of the series' fans were excited about the thought of this game, because 
 it seemed like the controls would fit the gameplay perfectly.
  
  Story:
  
  The story of this game is really simple. Aiai and his monkey friends have their bananas taken away 
 from them by a monkey pirate, and they have to get them back by going through the courses in the 
 game, and defeating the bosses.
  
  This definitely is not the best story I have seen in a game. In fact, it's pretty stupid. However, 
 there are certain kinds of games that don't really need a good story, and this happens to be one 
 of those games that doesn't need one.
  
  Controls and Gameplay:
  
  With past games, the whole idea behind the gameplay was to make a challenging game that you can 
 play using only one hand. This idea is part of the reason why so many of the series' fans loved 
 the idea of a Super Monkey Ball game on the Wii. The Wii's controller was made the way it is so 
 that certain games could be played with only one hand. And the motion controls seemed perfect for 
 moving the course to move the monkey. However, despite the fact that it seems perfect for the controller, 
 the actual controls are not as easy to get used to as the fans believed it would be. In order to 
 keep the course still, the player has to hold the remote as flat as possible. If the player tilts 
 the controller in any direction, even just a little bit, the course tilts in the same direction. 
 This often causes the monkey to go off the ledge or through a hole. The same thing happens if the 
 player is trying to make the monkey walk slowly around narrow paths, so that if the player accidentally 
 tilts the controller a little more than he or she wants to, even for just a second, it could end 
 up resulting in the monkey falling off the course.
  
  While playing this game, I was not able to get used to it for a long time. I had managed to get 
 past the first three worlds without getting used to the controls. However, after that, I was able 
 to find a position where I could be comfortable while playing the game, and support my arm so that 
 there would be very few sudden movements that would result in the monkey rolling off of the course. 
 If I had not found that position, I probably would have still had a tough time getting used to 
 the controls, and would have given up because of it.
  
  Along with the motion sensors, Sega have made another change to the controls. With the controller 
 set up the way that it is, Sega realized that they could do something that they couldn't have done 
 before without losing the one-handed gameplay, pressing a button. They used this opportunity to 
 add the ability to make the monkey jump by pressing the A button, which is well within the reach 
 of the player's hand while playing the game. This aspect to the game is not just a cheap way to 
 make the game's puzzles easier. In fact, Sega used the jumping ability in order to add more obstacles 
 in the courses, such as stairs that the player has to jump up in order to get closer to the goal 
 at the end of the course.
  
  One of the things that made the older games in the series so popular is the fact that the courses 
 that the player went to started out easy, in order to get the player used to the controls, but 
 then quickly became difficult to the point where only the best gamers could get through the course. 
 This aspect does continue in this game, but it is not quite as even as it was in older games. In 
 this game, the first three worlds are very easy. As I mentioned before, I was able to get through 
 the first three worlds without even getting used to the controls. The fourth world is the only 
 world which has a medium difficulty. It is above the difficulty of the first three worlds, but 
 not as difficult as the later worlds. After the fourth world, the difficulty gets extremely high. 
 There were times that I wanted to throw the controller at my TV because of how frustrated I was 
 while playing these worlds. However, despite being stuck on the later worlds, I managed to beat 
 the eight worlds within a couple weeks.
  
  For the dedicated gamer, the gameplay does not stop after those eight worlds. For each world, if 
 the player gets through all 10 levels and the boss level within the world without having to use 
 a continue, it will reward the player with a gold crown for that world. When gold crowns have been 
 earned for the eight worlds, a ninth world is unlocked. If a gold crown is earned for that ninth 
 world, then the tenth world is unlocked. While it's not that difficult to get gold crowns for the 
 first few worlds, it can be a big challenge to get them for the later levels.
  
  However, despite some of the problems that the single-player gameplay had, such as controls which 
 are difficult to get used to and inconsistency of the difficulty of levels, the main game of Super 
 Monkey Ball is really good. It is a frustrating but fun game, that will have gamers challenged 
 in later worlds.
  
  When this game was announced, Sega made it clear that they will be focusing on the mini-games as 
 much as the main game. They announced that there would be 50 mini-games in the game. That is more 
 than any other Monkey Ball game before. Because of this, many of the people who were getting the 
 Wii mainly as a multi-player party console were excited to get it in their collection. With so 
 many mini-games, how could they go wrong? However, Sega managed to find a way to mess it up. There 
 are a few games that are good, but only a few.
  
  One of the games that I liked was a kind of light-gun game, where the monkeys are on a space station, 
 trying to shoot asteroids before they hit the window. In addition, there will be some bananas flying 
 at the window, and the player has to avoid shooting those, so that they can get them and earn points.
 
  
  Another good game is a racing game. In this game, you hold the controller on its side, and you 
 move left or right by tilting your controller left or right, similar to Excite Truck and Sonic 
 and the Secret Rings. To accelerate, you press the 2 button. There are different things in the 
 course which make you move forward quicker. There are also items that help you in the race by hurting 
 your opponents, which you use by pressing one of the arrows on the directional pad. This is very 
 similar to Mario Kart, but with the monkeys inside of the plastic balls.
  
  The last game that I thought was good is a First Person Shooter kind of game, where you choose 
 one of three different places, and you have to find the other people and shoot them without being 
 killed by them. You move the monkey with the analog stick on the nunchuck attachment. To aim, point 
 you aim the remote at the screen. To shoot, press the B button on the bottom of the controller. 
 To change weapons, press either the C button on the nunchuck attachment or press the left or right 
 arrows on the remote. To jump, press the A button. And finally, to throw a grenade, press the Z 
 button on the nunchuck attachment.
  
  However, besides these three games, I thought that the games ranged from just being OK to being 
 really bad. Some of the other games could have been good, but they had poor controls. Other games 
 had bad ideas behind them, so it didn't really matter if they had good controls or not. I believe 
 that they could have improved some of these games if they had spent more time on them. However, 
 I also think that it would have been better to spend more time on making the main game better, 
 and only having about 10 mini-games instead of having 50.
  
  Graphics:
  
  In the past, the Super Monkey Ball games have not had graphics that looked too realistic. However, 
 compared to the graphics in this game, the older games' graphics were realistic. In this game, 
 Sega decided to have graphics similar to cell-shaded graphics. This gives the game a more colorful 
 look to it.
  
  While some people might prefer the more realistic graphics of the older games, I believe that the 
 graphics in this game go well with the game, and look really nice. It gives the game a special 
 feeling that fits with the gameplay.
  
  Sound:
  
  The game has many different kinds of songs. There are some annoyingly happy songs that get on my 
 nerves really quickly. However, there are also some really good songs in this game. My personal 
 favorite song is the one from the fifth world.
  
  In addition to the songs, there are the sound effects. The sounds when you hit objects are OK, 
 although not that great. The monkey sounds can get pretty annoying after a while. However, the 
 most annoying thing in the game is a voice saying Fallout! every time you get knocked off of the 
 course. The voice itself is not annoying, but the fact that it plays every time you fall off the 
 course is annoying.
  
  Overall:
  
  This game might not be as ideal as fans thought it would be, and will take a while to get used 
 to the controls. However, if you do get used to them, they end up being really good. The main game 
 is uneven, but provides a challenge that gamers might like, especially if they try to unlock the 
 9th and 10th worlds. The gameplay is so challenging later in the game that it becomes one of the 
 most frustrating but fun games on the Wii. The multi-player gameplay is definitely not as good 
 as Sega made it out to be, with only a few good games. If you want this game for the single player 
 gameplay, then it is worth checking out, but if you want it for the multi-player gameplay, you'll 
 probably be disappointed and should get a different game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmish82
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 24, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Overall Super Monkey Ball is a fun game if you're buying it for all of the party games. It has 
 quirky, comical fun for both a young and mature audience. If you're buying it for the single-player 
 mode, I would rent it first as it has many drawbacks.
  
  Some of the mini-games in this game are pretty fun and control very well. Some great examples of 
 this are Monkey Snowboarding, Red Light Green Light, Bubble Racing, etc. The controller works beautifully 
 for these games and feels very natural. However, there are a large amount of games that do not 
 control well with the new scheme. Whack-a-Monkey does not respond well at all. Frisbee golf is 
 so hard to gauge a proper throw. The disc either flies way too far or not far enough. With the 
 above exceptions and a handful of others, there are still more than enough party games to keep 
 you occupied for a long time.
  
  On to the single player mode. The single player levels are either ridiculously easy or ridiculously 
 hard. You simply try to get from the starting line to the finish line, collecting as many bananas 
 as you can along the way. As long as you don't fall off a cliff this is incredibly easy. The hard 
 part is controlling your monkey in tight areas. It can be very frustrating to maneuver down narrow 
 paths in this game, resulting in falling off a cliff many times. I like the rest of the control 
 scheme but it needed to be tighter control for these instances.
  
  Super Monkey Ball is a fun game if you're buying it to play with a friend most of the time. If 
 you're buying it for the single-player, I would definitely rent it first as I think you'll be let 
 down. I bought it for the multiplayer and somewhat like that aspect of it so the single-player 
 mode doesn't really affect me much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m_1116
Rating: 8
Date: May 10, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  As one of the original launch titles for the Wii, Banana Blitz is without a doubt one of the best 
 indicators of how the Wii remote can be used. With the original two Monkey Balls appearing on the 
 Gamecube (there are others, Im just not familiar with them) , the basis of the gameplay in these 
 games is used here. Anyone familiar with the series can see the natural transition from the joystick 
 to the motion-sensitive wiimote. In addition to the change in controls, Banana Blitz changes the 
 look of the game as well as gives you a wider variety of minigames to choose from.
  
  The original two Monkey Balls introduced the strange concept of running around as a monkey in a 
 ball while collecting bananas and reaching the goal. It was strange, simple, yet addicting. Not 
 to mention the immense difficulty experienced while progressing through the game. These same elements 
 are used in Banana Blitz but with an entirely new dimension to it. While the obvious change comes 
 with the motion controls, the new dimension is the ability to jump by simply pressing the A button. 
 Something as simple as jumping has made a great deal of change in the level designs. Progressing 
 through the game requires a great deal of skill in jumping especially as the game progresses. There 
 are eight worlds in the game, plus an additional two bonus worlds which require much practice and 
 patience in order to unlock. Each world consists of 8 stages and a boss (9 stages without a boss 
 for bonus worlds) , the inclusion of bosses being new to the Monkey Ball series. While the boss 
 gives a nice change in pace to the game, the camera which keeps you locked on the boss can sometimes 
 be a hindrance. The meat of the gameplay can be found in the single player mode, but there also 
 is a greater emphasis in the multiplayer mode this time around with 50 minigames to choose from. 
 The staple of previous Monkey Balls multiplayer experience can be found such as monkey race, golf, 
 target, and bowling, as well as a lot of hit-and-miss minigames. The problem with these minigames 
 is while plentiful, you have to play through some near unplayable (due to controls) ones in order 
 to find the good ones. Some do stick out such as monkey squash while others seem like a missed 
 opportunity (Im looking at YOU monkey fencing!) . All in all you will get the classic yet tweaked 
 monkey ball single player game with some decent multiplayer games.
  
  A game that seemed destined for motion sensitive control certainly does not disappoint in regards 
 to the controls. The single player game uses just the remote to control the monkey which gives 
 the effect of tilting the stage in whichever direction desired. This is what in my opinion makes 
 this game great. While there is a bit of a learning curve in getting comfortable with the controls 
 (not to mention a steady hand) , it is a worthwhile experience and just feels right once learned. 
 The inclusion of jumping requires you to press the A button that while simple requires somewhat 
 of a learning curve in getting used to staying in control while jumping. While the controls for 
 the single player game are great, some of the minigames are just unplayable due to it. For a system 
 that is promoted with the ease of picking up and playing, some of the minigames do the contrary. 
 Thats not to say that all the minigames are like that; there are just a few to many like this 
 for it to go unnoticed. It also doesnt help that at times the controls are just not responsive 
 enough. I will however forgive the developers for some of these problems as they nailed the single 
 player controls.
  
  As a launch title, you obviously wont see the full extent of the Wiis graphical capabilities, 
 but you are treated to a plethora of colors and vibrant locales which are definitely not hard on 
 the eyes. The artistic style of this game differs from the original in using more of a cartoon-like 
 effect. While the change looks good it seems to turn off a number of people who dont like the 
 portrayed kiddy image. The sound from this game is for the most part cheerful and features an 
 upbeat soundtrack that is at times catchy. If you are looking for a game that is fun to play with 
 friends, while some of the minigames are good, there are better collections of minigames found 
 in other games on the Wii. The bulk of the gameplay lies in the single player mode which is in 
 my opinion the main selling point of the game. It is definitely a game that is worth trying (rent 
 it if you can) , but is not for everyone. Mainly the impatient do not like this game who finds the 
 levels to be frustrating, but this is what Monkey Ball has always been about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geitsau
Rating: 5.9
Date: May 1, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  This game is basically just a heap of mini-games. There is a single-player part but that was so 
 boring I didn't even want to finish the first chapter. Some encouragement, like special unlockable 
 mini-games would've most definitively helped. The mini-games, on the other hand, are varying in 
 quality. Unfortunately, quite a few of them have horribly broken controls and are pretty much a 
 waste of time. Most of the mini-games, however, are fun to play. It's these gems among the collections 
 that makes this game playable, and partly worth the money.
  
  Graphics:
  Seriously, this look like a GameCube game, a GameCube game with BAD graphics. Sound:
  The monkeys 
 make some noises, there's some awful japanese dance/trance music, etc. Sometimes, I feel like turning 
 off the volume because the music is so awfully annoying.
  
  Value:
  You're not going to be playing this on your own for a long time, that's for sure. But together 
 with some friends, this game definitively has enough entertaining moments to make you want to come 
 back.
  
  Tilt:
  All in all this is a decent collection of mini-games, but quite frankly I find the free game included 
 with the Wii, namely Wii Sports, to be a hell of a lot more fun. Unless you're desperate for some 
 social Wii games with lots of mediocre mini-games, you should stick with Wii Sports. WarioWare 
 Smooth Moves features a much more entertaining package of mini-games, so go buy that instead. Or 
 you could wait for Mario Party 8 (which is going to be awesome by the way) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spyhunter_101
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 23, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz is the new instalment in to the super monkey ball franchise . This 
 time you play as same monkeys as the other super monkey ball games. Your goal is to retrieve the 
 gold bananas this is the main part of the game, this is where the game is at its best. Nice challenging 
 levels and fun bosses but it will not take you long before is part of the game is over. Now for 
 the multi player there are mini game that will make you use the wiimote every way possible, some 
 of this games will bring some entertainment some are bad ones that will make you think why they 
 put this in the game. In the end this one that you would want to play but not buy so for this one 
 I say the core of the game is good so good it make you want more this is one to put on your gamefly 
 Q but not one to go out and pay 49.99. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RidersDX
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 1, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  The Super Monkey Ball series has been going down ever since Amusement Vision stopped making the 
 Super Monkey Ball games. With the alright monkey game for the DS and the very horrid Super Monkey 
 Ball Adventure. So, SEGA tries to redefine the series with the series' Wii debut. Super Monkey 
 Ball Banana Blitz. I wouldn't say there is a story really but for something CLOSE to a story, this 
 big monkey steals this golden banana AiAi and his friends are looking at. They get mad and try 
 to get it bad. Expected from the series really.
  
  The game offers good old classic gameplay from the first and second games with some new stuff thanks 
 to what the Wii can do. Like the new control scheme. And also, the ability to jump. So the game 
 offers alot of obstacles making you have to jump too. The new control scheme can take some time 
 getting used to. But then you eventually get used to it and have a blast. Not many glitches are 
 present. But the difficulty can be pretty high in some levels thanks to the control scheme. There 
 are also boss battles in this game. That makes you ask, But the monkeys can't attack! How do you 
 do the bosses? Why, most of them include jumping on the boss. They are pretty good.
  
  The gameplay would've gotten a nine but what blocks it is the party mode. Most mini games aren't 
 that fun really. They aren't fun cause the controls are really frustrating. Alot of times, the 
 controls won't respond making this mode a really bad mode to avoid. Good thing the mode wasn't 
 a game by itself. It would've gotten really bad ratings. Ask Sonic Team SEGA. They made the Party 
 Mode in the Sonic game a successful try. But some games are good.
  
  Don't let the screenshots fool you. The graphics are really good. They almost utilize the Wii's 
 full graphical power. Not as good as the graphics in Super Monkey Ball 1 and 2, but they are still 
 very impressive. The graphics aren't a surprise. You can expect real good graphics from SEGA.
 
  
  The music is better then ever in my opinion. The soundtrack is excellent. Your good old monkey 
 ball music. It fits the games' theme quite well and it's well done. Expected from SEGA also, was 
 a perfect soundtrack. The sound effects are good too.
  
  Overall, despite the Party Mode and the dumb controls and the short story mode, the game is a nice 
 start to get the series back on track. Good job SEGA. Good start bringing the series back like 
 you did with Sonic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sykil
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 21, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  The aggregate reviews of this game have been a bit inflated, if you ask me -- I suppose that's 
 because it's a launch game. That doesn't mean it's worth buying, especially now that the Wii has 
 more and better games under it's belt. Even so, there were better launch games!
  
  But let's focus on the good for a bit. Super Monkey Ball's strongest showing is its graphics. Though 
 not technically impressive, this rendition of Super Monkey Ball features a very stylized, somewhat 
 cel-shaded look. It suits the game nicely, and it's great that the game has placed art direction 
 above flash graphics.
  
  Second would be the gameplay, which works rather nicely with the Wii controller. The controls are 
 responsive, but it doesn't prove to feel very fun. Perhaps there are other factors distracting 
 from the fun factor, but it's ultimately a result of gameplay.
  
  Worst of all is the music, which I can't take for the life of me. In hell, I imagine that's all 
 they'll play. It's loud and grating, not cute. Music doesn't need to be at the forefront of a game 
 like this; it's not here, but it sticks out solely for causing an obscene amount of headaches.
 
  
  Ultimately, Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz is just a teaser of what the franchise could be on 
 the Wii. Hopefully they'll make a better sequel somewhere near the middle of Wii's life cycle, 
 building on what was good about this game and hiring a composer that's not on crack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fabz_95
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 21, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  The fun monkey action is back.. But has it lost its charm?
  Some of it... but not enough to stop it being a great game
  
  The main game is great thanks 
 to the wii's tilting controller making the game alot more fun. But... Yes theres a but. Sometimes 
 when you tilt the controller it does not react fast enough making you die and throw your controller 
 in frustrationg (Slightly exxagerated :P) .
  
  But when you see the colourful world and the hear the great soundtrack it cheers you up again. 
 The best thing about this game is the mini-games. Theres 50 mini games and some of the ones i like 
 are Monkey wars, snowboarding, fencing etc. But some of them can be a pain in the backside.
  
  The worst part of the game is that you cant pause and quit to the title screen during the main 
 game or a mini game ( OMG) . This is especially annoying when your on a mini game you cant complete 
 and you cant even lose as theres no time limit.
  
  Overall i think this is a good game with a few flaws that definitely need fixing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HolyCheesus
Rating: 5.6
Date: Apr 11, 2007 11:07 pm PT
Review:  Super Monkey Ball on Wii is just a broken game, the controls are nearly impossisble to tame.
  
  Although I don't own the game my self, I have played this game long enough to know that its 
 just bad.
  
  The graphics are great, for a Nintendo 64. The mini game games will have you swing your arms in 
 confusiment (is that even a word?)
  
  Even trying to navigate through the main menu will have you throughing the remote out the window.
 
  
  Although it was fun playing ring toss and darts, the 200 hundred other mini-games are either clones 
 or copies.
  
  The game where you have to steer a monkey was the game I lost my virginity to the Wii, very first 
 time a toched the Wiis remote, steering it like I would never wake up the next day. It was cold 
 that day so Im taking off points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JayhawkFan3
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 10, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  OK so I'm at home playing the wii and my sister gets a new game this one so she brings it downstairs 
 and we start playing next thing you know my sister is on the ground screaming. WHY DID WE PAY FOR 
 THIS!!!!!!! This game is so terrible that if you like it you should go play in traffic. Any way 
 this game has bugs on top of bugs on top of bugs
  
  Single player: O wow we get to use the wii remote thats pretty much the only good thing and you 
 only play the game through the second level and then your tired of it
  
  Multi player: Ok this game is focused on the multiplayer but guess what? The Multi player stinks 
 i mean there are so many bugs the graphics are terrible i mean come on i could understand these 
 graphics for gamecube but a next-gen console come on work on the graphics this game is probably 
 the all around worst game ive ever played
  
  I wish i could give it a trophy for its only award with the trophy saying Worst Game Ever Made 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chazasul
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 9, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  Super Monkey Ball is primarily a ball tilting game, and secondly a party game.
  
  It's fair to say that many of the great things that made Monkey ball what it was are definetly 
 missing from here. But in saying that, there are also plenty of great new features that justify 
 buying this game.
  
  Firstly, remember the stupid, childish and annoying story with Super Monkey Ball 2? No? Good. You 
 don't want to. Fortuneatly with this one they've pretty much scrapped any sort of plot besides 
 a little cutscene here and there. Believe me, this is a good thing.
  
  Single player is, as always, hard as hell! For a game with such a childish look, this is probably 
 the hardest wii game out there right now. As you get to around world 6-7 you'll really be feeling 
 it and like me, you'll probably be getting VERY frustrated. But it's so addictive that you keep 
 having Just one more try .
  
  Single player is nice, but multi-player is where this game truly shines. There are around 50 mini-games 
 this time round. That's right, 50! Some of them are.... Bad. Some are okay. But most of them are 
 pure gold. Even the jigsaw puzzle mini-game is pretty fun! Classics like Monkey Bowling and Monkey 
 Target return in top form too.
  
  Unfortuneatly, besides the story mode there really isn't much else to do on your own. Which makes 
 the game suffer quite a lot.
  
  The wii controls feel quite awkward to begin with. And when the edges begin to dissappear from 
 the stages things get very hard. But an hour of playing and they'll feel just right.
  
  ----Pros ----
  - 50 fun mini-games
  - Very challenging
  - Well made level design
  
  ----Cons ----
 
  - No multi-player tilting
  - Particularly short
  - Most annoying menu EVER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluewallpro
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 1, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  It wasn't as good as everyone has said it was. When I first rented it I though sweet 50 mini games 
 but after a while I wish there were more games. Most were fun but not as fun as I expected. The 
 sensitivity was either too sensitive to not enough sensitivity. When there was no one to play with 
 I would play 1 player but even that wasn't the greatest. Its a good game if you want to rent it 
 for a big party but after that I wouldn't buy it. 1 player was so repetitive and boring but I would 
 recommend to rent it because I am not the only one who can have a say.
  
  7.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keibo
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 30, 2007 4:54 am PT
Review:  I've played Super Monkey Ball games for a while now, I've played the Gamecube ones the GBA ones 
 and the DS one, they have all been relatively good games and this one is no different. There is 
 a story, apparently, but really noone should really care about the story that much seeing as it 
 really is just an excuse to get to the puzzles, but the main jist of it is that an ape steals the 
 monkeys golden bananas and its their jobs to get them back (see I told you that it didn't really 
 matter ;) ) . Anyways, they added 2 new characters to the game as well as putting more details to 
 the already existing monkeys, Yan-Yan and Doc are the 2 new additions and they have as much charm 
 as the original 4 (yan-yan being my favourite: P)
  
  You control the game with the wii remote in the normal fashion ( i. e pointing at the screen) . I 
 found this to be quite odd at first as it made tilting the environment forward quite difficult 
 as it involved pointing down, after getting used to that the game plays quite well, they added 
 a new ability to the monkeys in that the can now jump (yes a small ability but it comes into play 
 later on) . There are quite a number of worlds each with their own themes etc. As always there is 
 a mid-level bonus stage and an end of level boss. The later bosses in the game are actually quite 
 interesting and have you bouncing around doing lots of things before defeating them, the Levels 
 get progressively harder as you go along and some of them require you to throw caution out the 
 window to complete.
  
  Apart from the main game there are the party games ala Mario Party minus the board. These games 
 are hit and miss, some of them are really interesting and fun to play whereas others are quite 
 frustrating or boring.
  
  Overall it is a good game, the graphics were ok for a launch game, but considering the whole style 
 of the games anyways it does its job of getting the point across, the levels are quite varied and 
 challenging later on, and some of the party games are quite fun with some friends. If you have 
 some money left over and you find this game for cheap like in an offer or pre-owned then go ahead 
 and buy it if your into the whole puzzle genre and don't mind some party games in there too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sunnystarz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 23, 2007 2:26 am PT
Review:  Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz is one amazing game, but to all the reviewers who said that this 
 game is broken; have u really kept trying to master the control? The wii-mote was made for this 
 game, Sega made this game from the ground up for the WII. The single-player exp is amazing, sometime 
 it'll make u so mad at how close you were to the goal but you fell just short. The new JUMP button 
 add a whole lot of fun &amp; heartache to the already ever unsteady ball u r trying to control. 
 it adds a whole new dimension to this game. To finish the game; you're gonna have to commitment 
 to finely tuned the way you hold that wiimote, b/c as a veteran knows CONTROL is everything in 
 this game. as for multi-player; some of the games are addictive and some are just poorly design. 
 u can never get enough of jumping rope though. the graphic in this game is simple enough that i 
 could stare at it for 5 hours straight playing the same world over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Optusnet
Rating: 4.7
Date: Mar 17, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  It's bad enough that Super Monkey Ball has a crap name (with 'Banana Blitz' being added on) , and 
 it's bad enough that SMB has an incredibly shallow multiplayer experience, but the worst part of 
 this gob-smackingly frustrating, if not, boring game is that Sega have decided to add wii controls 
 entirely against Nintendo's philosophy. Instead of making controls easier to use and more immersive, 
 they've completely screwed with the uber-tight and senstivie *on the edge of your seat* mechanics 
 that have been stuch a staple to the series. This truly is a pair of monkey balls.
  
  Graphics: Well, here's a positive. The game shines through its cheerful and bright artstyle with 
 some fantastic compensation for polygon count, with art. There are shiny ball effects (haha) , nice 
 lighting touches and smooth textures. However the character art isn't at nice as the monkeys look 
 like dolls and have come straight from a wonky Japanese cartoon ad. Still, it's a very refreshing 
 style, even if the Wii is capable of better
  
  Sound: Another positive. This has the funkiest and best tunes (which dare I say help ease the frustration) 
 I've heard in SMB game. The sound effects have been very 'samey' from pervious games but do hold 
 up well enough here. Gameplay: Let's first move to single player. When you control the game swerves 
 with the motion-sensing, but is so imprecise and wonky that you feel like you're in a lot less 
 control with the monkey. It must be felt to be understood. It feels like the biggest chore to jump 
 from one platform to the next, as its bloody hard enough to wrestle where you're rolling. Numerous 
 times I've fell off the stage simple after landing a successful jump. Add increasingly (and cruel) 
 level design and 'impossible to get' bonuses and you  
 broken game. Ironic since it's the unique wii controls that have caused the trouble. Oh, and the 
 credits play every ****** time you beat a world. AND YOU CAN'T SKIP THEM! This game sucks, why 
 would I want to know what dudes screwed up every 30 minutes?
  
  Now to multiplayer. There are some minigames that are fun and can actually be thoughorly enjoyed 
 with multiplae people. However the majority will get old quickly due to either their incredibly 
 shallow depth or awful controls. Some games are tight and offer frantic gameplay - while others 
 are just a mess. If you're looking for a good first-gen game with your Wii, then please look elsewhere. 
 There are much better party games than this on Wii, and much better Wii games, period. At least 
 Rayman was playable.
  
  + Great visual and art style - some nice effects
  + Funky tunes and cute sounds
  - Awful controls which are almost on the verge of being unplayable
 
  - Short story (if you even make it that far) - lack of any great content
  - Shallow, terribly inconsistent minigames
  - Destroys most of the quality factors that make 
 a good Monkey Ball game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funkymonkey4710
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 17, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  I have never played a game sooo complicated and difficult that you just want to throw your Wii 
 out the window. Sega made a great game for MINI-Games but the main game is flawed and just doesn't 
 feel right with the control scheme. You control the game by tilting the Wiimote and pushing A to 
 jump. Sure it sounds wonderful, but it leaves you open to make so many mistakes. The Bosses are 
 great and fun to fight, really make you want to refight them. To bad in order to fight them you 
 have to go through all 8 of the levels in that world. The new characters are awesome and the artwork 
 is sweet, but the levels get so complicated that it will drive you bananas!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Forlorn79
Rating: 4.7
Date: Mar 16, 2007 1:56 am PT
Review:  This game can be very fun, but more often than not, it's annoying and repetitive. The graphics 
 are soft and colorful, almost to a fault. You'll eventually get tired of the overly cuteness of 
 it all. The sounds are also executed well, but don't be surprised if others ask you to mute the 
 sound. It's all pretty crazy.
  
  This game can be hard, to the point where you wonder if there was any testers to play the games 
 and levels. Some of the mini-games are flat-out broken, and getting out of them is harder than 
 reseting the entire game. The menu's don't work well, and the overall setup is shallow. Finding 
 out what not to play is part of the fun, right?
  
  A select few of the mini-games and levels will make you feel like this game is a good investment, 
 almost. The FPS is good, but like most games, is too limited to make it worth getting by itself. 
 The amount of games seems like a positive, but it turns into a negative. Quality, not quantity, 
 is my motto. What else can I say?
  
  Time to break your balls, monkeys! Grabbing bananas is fun, unless that's all you can do... make 
 it stop! Super monkeys... Banana blitz balls... Come on, give us the good stuff, Sega! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imranmotala
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  Ive played all the monkey balls to date, except for adventure, and I have to say that this is the 
 betting looking and best feeling monkey ball game there is in the series.
  
  Gamplay: 10/10
  I say this because, using the wii mote to move the stage is an amazing idea... 
 it works so well! Also the jump feature adds a whole new way to play, more freedom and control. 
 The boss battles are fun and the stages are amazing. They do get frustrating, but than again its 
 not a monkey ball game if theres no frustration. The lvls can be played again and again and the 
 vibrant colors just make you want to play it even more!
  
  Another thing is the ability to choose wich lvl you want to play right from the start, in the past 
 monkey ball games you had to choose begginer intermediate and expert if i remeber correctly, but 
 in this game there are 8 worlds, 8 lvls in each, a bonus stage, and a boss stage. There are also 
 2 unlockable worlds, if you beat all the worlds without a continue. The stats of the monkeys adds 
 a whole new twist, making the game eiseir or harder depending on what monkey you choose for what 
 lvl.
  
  Doctor - good for sharp turns
  
  Yan Yan- amazing jumper
  
  AiAi- Evened out
  
  Gon Gon- can get rid of bumpers
  
  Baby - smaller and eisier to manuver
 
  
  MeeMee- dosnt bounce after jumping
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  The graphics are way better than the other monkey ball games and the coloer is so appealing i cant 
 look away. This game will just suck you in with the texture and feel. Even the box art just makes 
 you want to buy this game and everytime you see it, youll want to play it.
  
  I love the new graphics and it just adds to the fun and makes you less frustrated. Just looking 
 at the game is great!
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  The sound :D it is amazing. When falling countless times i cant help not bieng mad, the sound just 
 makes you want to dance and it takes the frustration down a whole new lvl. Although i see how you 
 could get mad at it since it seems happy when you fall or get a game over :P but i love it and 
 it deserves a perfect 10.
  
  Value 10/10
  
  Your getting your moneys worth with this game. Countless hourse for 50 bucks? i think thats totaly 
 worth it. You'll be figuring out all the secret passages and find your self trying to unlock the 
 2 secret worlds, after that playing the lvls over and over trying to beat your last time. All in 
 all this is a wonderful game and i advice anyone who is a monkey ball fan or is intrested in what 
 this games about to just go out right now and buy it, balive me, you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: underoath587
Rating: 5.4
Date: Feb 26, 2007 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Ok I bought this game thinking it would be pretty fun i mean with 50 mini games how could you go 
 wrong? I was wrong to the fullest I ended up taking this game back within a few days.
  
  Ok the main game is fun but theres not much too it the main game is worth skipping, on to the minigames 
 which for me i thought would be the greatest part of the game. very few of the mini games were 
 really fun and worth going back to, and some of the games even had some pretty bad glitches and 
 were non responsive which turned me away from going back to them, and some of them were simply 
 not fun this game has little reason to go back and little value.
  
  all in all: i would suggest you stay away from this game i hated it and returned it just trying 
 to help you out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex51011
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 26, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz
  
  Its a whole new monkey in a ball game! Yup you heard me right; its a monkey in a ball game! You 
 play as one of six different monkeys. Who are on a guest to get back their golden bananas.
  
  Being one of the launch titles this game had to deliver and deliver it well kinda did! Since 
 the last Monkey Ball just plain old sucked as well there was a lot of pressure on this game. So 
 lets see how it held up to all that pressure in another alex51011 Review!
  
  Monkey balls story was definitely not one of their main priorities. Frankly something has taken 
 away your Golden Bananas! So you set out to get them back. But frankly you wont see a hint of 
 dialogue in the game. So you really have no clue why theyve taken the bananas and why the bananas 
 even matter.
  
  So for all you know these monkeys really like their golden bananas. The story also randomly drops 
 you into the weirdest of locations. Youve got deserts and forests and the like with no explanation 
 why youre there in the first place! Frankly the story is plain old stupid and without any explanation 
 as to why these bananas are important you simply presume that there needed for something or at 
 least hope. But in Monkey Ball the story isnt all that important and doesnt play a huge part.
 
  
  Now visually Monkey Ball is no masterpiece. The visuals are very simplistic but hold out for the 
 type of game it is. There are quite a few things that look nice though. Like for instance the levels 
 do look very nice; which stands out when looking at them in the pause menu. It shows that they 
 tried to make the game look nice and crisp.
  
  Some things that also look nice are when you get a banana or when you complete a level and go through 
 the little circle itll shoot off a short of fireworks to celebrate you completing the level. Some 
 of the bosses look cool albeit being purple and pink colors. But even though there are some alright 
 looking visuals the game really suffers graphically since they seemed to have simplified its look 
 quite a bit. But its not all bad. Now Monkey Ball is essential designed for fun gameplay which 
 they deliver and fail at all in one. The main game was done very well and has a lot of gameplay 
 to it. You have 8 some worlds with around 8 levels some bonus stages and a boss battle in each. 
 Now the boss battles are surprisingly very well done; for a new feature in the series it was done 
 very well.
  
  Now the fundamentals of the gameplay are; tilt the world and roll your monkey to the finish, which 
 I slightly touched on in the above paragraph. Now Im going to be blunt; I dislike Monkey Ball 
 but I have to say they did the gameplay very well; other then the weird A. I that just runs around 
 and does absolutely nothing. One other thing that was annoying is the new addition of jumping, 
 it just felt so incomplete and pretty hard to use effectively.
  
  Of course were theres a good part theres a bad and this bad part makes you want to break your 
 Wii-Remote. Now what could that be you ask? Well the mini-games of course. Monkey Balls min-games 
 show off a whole new way to SUCK, almost every single one of the mini-games feel incomplete and 
 just plain horrible. Although there are those few that are really good, but those are increasingly 
 rare.
  
  Truly Monkey Balls gameplay has its flaws but also has some nice upsides that will at least make 
 you consider not breaking your Wii-Remote after playing those flaws.
  
  Monkey Balls controls surprisingly well other then a few bumps and scraps here and there. But what 
 does work really well is tilting the world. You can really tell that the Wii-Remote was the answer 
 to the Monkey Ball games. By simply tilting the Wii-Remote the world itself tilts, which feels 
 very good and intuitive.
  
  One problem with the controls that I had was jumping; its not that it was hard it just didnt 
 fit in very well with the other controls and feels like they just wanted to add it since they found 
 the formula old perhaps.
  
  But overall the controls feel fine except when playing the mini-games so Monkey Ball definitely 
 looses points in that category just because of the mini-games. Monkey Balls music is ok but you 
 definitely wont remember it after playing it as its quite forgetful. Plus it can be quite annoying 
 from time to time. At least the music changes from world to world and sometimes itll change with 
 each passing level.
  
  The sounds are also alright but could have been better. You get quite a weird sound when you jump 
 and the monkeys make odd ooting noises that scare me from time to time. The music and sound is 
 terribly forgetful and so its just not that great.
  
  In the end I dont think I would recommend buying Monkey Ball unless youre a true fan of the game 
 and for those people who think you can be a casual gamer and beat this game then forget it! Its 
 quite a hard game. The game also has some pretty good Replay value having close to 100 levels and 
 those *shudder* mini-games.
  
  Story- 5/10
  Weird and not explained
  
  Visual-7/10
  Very simple
  
  Gameplay-8/10
  Still some bumps and bruises that have to be worked out
  
 
  Controls-8.5/10
  Mini-games bring this score down.
  
  Music-6.5/10
  Very forgetful
  
  Replay and Value-8.5/10
  Some mini-games and lots of levels
  
  Overall-7.3/10 
 (not an average)
  What can I say, it wasn't that great
  
  So I hope you enjoyed yet another one of alex51011s Reviews! -alex51011 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smileyryder34
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 22, 2007 10:02 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Bright, colorful graphics and sound; 3rd dimension adds a whole new level to the game.
 
  
  The Bad: Most of the party games are just plain awful; Some levels of the game can be frustratingly 
 difficult. Gameplay: Well the Nintendo Wii's launch has come and gone. Super Monkey Ball: Banana 
 Blitz is one of the games I picked up at launch and I believe Sega has gotten it right. After the 
 seeming failure of Super Monkey Ball Adventure they got back to the basics with this one and the 
 games comes off solidly. You have approximately 100 levels in the main game, this is fewer than 
 the SMB games have had in the past, but the addition of the 3rd dimension of play adds a lot to 
 these games. Unlike previous Monkey Ball games where you were tied to the ground, in this one your 
 Monkey's have learned to jump, and apparently they like it. Many of the new levels have some place 
 where you have to use the jump ability. This adds a level to the game that I think had been lacking 
 in the past. The levels start off easily enough. In the first level of the game you simply have 
 to tilt the remote forward to finish the level. They gradually increase in difficulty from there. 
 Many of the levels you'll be able to finish in one try, while others will take you numerous attempts 
 to complete. Luckily, in this version of Super Monkey Ball if you die, you don't have to complete 
 all the levels in a world over again. The game saves your progress after every level and you can 
 continue from where you left off. Many of the party games are not very fun. They don't control 
 well or just aren't implemented well. The few that stand out as really playable are ones like Monkey 
 Target, Monkey Wars, Monkey Race, Jump Rope, Hammer Throw and Home Run Derby. The others I really 
 could do without. If you're looking for a fun Party type game, I don't think Monkey Ball is the 
 one you'll look to. There are simply too many better Party games for the Wii out right now.
  You also have new characters to enjoy. In addition to AiAi, Mimi, Baby and Gongon; two new monkeys 
 join the party. The ever so cute YanYan, who looks a bit like a racoon monkey and the eccentric 
 Doctor. Each of the monkeys have strenghts and weaknesses in the main game, but for the party games 
 they are all equally matched. The controls: This version of Super Monkey Ball takes full advantage 
 of the new Wii Remote. In past outings you were required to use the analog stick to tilt the world 
 your monkey occupied and while it worked, it just didn't feel right. Now in order to progress through 
 the levels you have to tilt the Wii Remote in the direction you want to go. This will take a bit 
 of getting used to, but after a while it will become natural and it will be hard to go back to 
 any other way of controlling. You also have the new jump ability. There are two ways to do this. 
 You can either simply hit the A button and your monkey will jump. If you want a bit more tactile 
 way you can hold the B button on the back of the Wii Remote and flick the controller up and your 
 monkey will follow. I prefer the single button push myself as it may be possible that while jumping 
 the remote will tilt a bit and cause your monkey to veer of course slightly. Visuals and Sound: 
 Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz is definitely the best looking outing to date. It has a bit of 
 an updated look from the past. The levels are much more bright and colorful than in the past. The 
 game has a bit more of a cartoon look to it, but that doesn't take away at all from the look you'll 
 get when you pop your disk into the system. The levels are extremely clear and quite pleasant to 
 look at. The sound doesn't really add or take away from the game. To be honest, for the most part, 
 I never really heard the sounds. I was too into the game to realize the levels had sound. I don't 
 know if that's a good thing or a bad thing. The game also takes advantage of the speaker in the 
 Wii Remote. The sounds that come from there are mostly *dings* when you make selections on the 
 menu. They can go in and out and have the same sound quality of other Wii titles.
  Closing Thoughts: Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz does have it's problems, but they are really 
 few and far between. If you're looking for a good game to tide you over till the Blockbuster titles 
 come out or as a complementary platform game this is the one you want. It's fun for kids of all 
 ages, as well as their parents. The kids will love to cute look that the monkeys have and adults 
 will enjoy trying to show their kids how good they are at games. I would imagine you'll have a 
 few good hours of enjoyment out of this game early on and will keep it on the shelf and come back 
 to it periodically for a few more minutes of quality fun. It won't last as long as titles like 
 Zelda or Red Steel. The gameplay isn't as deep either, but you'll sure have a heck of a lot of 
 fun anyway. I would definitely pick up this title and add it to your library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Idnuf636
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 21, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  This wont be as organized as my other reviews, just saying things in a random order. The reason 
 behind the first phrase you saw is that 2 which was an awesome game and still is. Then the portable 
 iterations are too hard, at least the GBA one that was a port of SMB 1. Then the series totally 
 went under with Adventure. One of the worst games for the gamecube and remains one of the worst 
 games for gamecube and all time. Then i had hope in the franchise again with Banana Blitz. I was 
 so excited it would be like a normal game. The 50 mini-games didn't warn me that much seeing as 
 wii is a party type system and that an issue with adventure was the mini-games were plagued with 
 horrible load times. Especially one of my favorites, monkey target loads for over 30 seconds for 
 a 15 second round then 30 seconds of loading again. The quality mini-games were ruined. Now the 
 control messes up the classics like Target, while spawning several bad new ones. Not all of them 
 are THAT bad and surprisingly as it was a joke with my friends to play trombone, the more i play 
 it, the more i get oddly addicted to it. Also most played is monkey wars which shouldn't be because 
 it is so shallow, but i love it so much. But those and a few others are the only good mini-games. 
 But now the main game. So the wii control had me a bit nervous at first and reviews came out and 
 said it was great. I was so disappointed that the wii control completely ruined it yet again. The 
 control would have less problems if the wasnt this mistake. When they were designing the wii they 
 werent thinking about SMB. You can only tilt and twist a control so much before you cant go any 
 further. In this particular game that is a problem as the thing you need in SMB is precise control. 
 To do that you need slow turning function. But what happens when the issue before and precise control 
 meet where the turning is blocked off at a certain point where you cant make turns easily. Precise 
 control but a time limit. That was the challenge of the originals. But then this doesnt work when 
 the very thing that made the originals so fun is ruined when you cant figure out how to make it 
 through the courses because the wii controller issue of this game gives you slow turning; precise 
 control. You would think so, but it does the opposite as you need sharp turning too and both arent 
 possible with the controller design, that is the issue. Also getting away from why the control 
 trips over itself and falls off a cliff. The next issue is boss fights. They are unnecessary and 
 make you think of adventure, what was one of the worst games for gc. Super Monkey Ball ADVENTURE, 
 interesting. Plus it gives it away totally. In the beginning it puts a big square around it and 
 a huge arrow point towards what you need to hit. Plus because of the terrible control and not camera 
 control you cant see what you are doing as you have to jump in boss battles which screws up the 
 camera. Which now you know, you can jump. If that wasn't enough, the boss in the 3rd world is disturbing. 
 This animal thing that stands on its hind legs has this pink bump hanging out where its _______ 
 should be. In the beginning of the battle it does the square and arrow at the bump, then he scratches 
 it and it like moves around. There is a new art style that is not very good, but it fits the games 
 retarded storyline once again of course about bananas. The sound in the game, not that good. The 
 music isnt meaningful and squeaks and squeals and cheers arent nice to listen to. Not a long lasting 
 game because most party games arent good and you have to weed them out from 50 games. The control 
 doesnt work so you wont want to play the main game. That is why the game is marked at very hard 
 because the SMB games were already hard with good control. 0 to 30 to get used because you cant 
 get used to this broken game. In conclusion, dont buy this game even if you are a fan of the old 
 SMB games and it looks good. Dont waste 50 bucks like i did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Darklance
Rating: 6.4
Date: Feb 11, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  For those who have not played a Super Monkey Ball game before, it revolves around a monkey in a 
 ball (what a surprise) rolling along paths, around obstacles and across ledges without falling 
 off. After choosing one of the six monkeys on offer, you'll progress through eight worlds, each 
 with their own visual style. Each world has eight levels and a boss battle. No, that's not a typo; 
 you actually have to fight bosses. The first three worlds are very simple, the fourth starts to 
 get interesting and the fifth begins to get hard. Each level runs on a trial and error basis where 
 you must attempt each level until completed. And many attempts you will have, especially towards 
 the end, often resulting in extreme frustration. Luckily you can choose to do levels in any order 
 you wish within the same world.
  
  Tilting the Wii remote actually tilts the world, allowing your monkey to roll down the slope you 
 have created and although there is only so much you can do with a monkey in a ball it seems Sega 
 aren't quite tapping into the puzzle potential. Graphically it is cartoony and simple though sharp 
 and vibrant and does the job. For most part the music is made up of eighties electric guitar wailing 
 with a dance beat and is just plain annoying.
  
  Some of the levels are good; though rolling a ball along ledges begins to get uninteresting after 
 a while. You can be grateful that there is a multiplayer and it's an integral part of the game 
 and not just tacked on. With no less than fifty minigames on offer, this should be the ultimate 
 party game. And if fifty sounds overwhelming, that's because it is. It will take a while to try 
 every mini-game available and for most of them you will be wondering why Amusement Vision even 
 bothered. There are Monkey Ball versions of all the Wii Sports games though you probably wont play 
 them, as they are far inferior to the Wii Sports versions. Amusement Vision should have concentrated 
 on making about twenty good games instead of fifty bad to average games. The best games in the 
 bunch are a bit of fun though you probably wont play them more than a couple of times as they aren't 
 nearly as good as some multiplayer games out there. Mariokart or Smash Bros. anyone? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGuy07
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 9, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Super Monkey Ball Banana Blitz Review A successful smooth trouble-free game that takes no effort 
 in story mode, making its great uses of the controller. Optional Modes are also enjoyable. The 
 Good: Large variety of some excellent mini games. Great multiplayer. Story mode is longer than 
 normal Super Monkey Ball games are. Graphics improved from the previous Monkey Ball games2 new 
 creative playable characters The ability to jump! New puzzles and twists with some interesting 
 bosses.
  The Bad: More than half of the mini games are terrible. Controlling with the Wii Mote is tough 
 and at times unresponsive. Story may be long but it is no challenge to breeze through. No multiplayer 
 in Story Mode.
  Super Monkey Ball Banana Blitz is a game that is addictive. It definitely improves from the past 
 titles to the Monkey Ball franchise in its numerous unique ways. The game itself is great, and 
 those who are looking for some fun cant go wrong in purchasing this game. In Story Mode, you have 
 to tilt the Wii mote in the direction you want your player to go. This may sound weird and I admit 
 it takes some time to masterI personally do not enjoy using the Wii Mote instead of the good old 
 classic Game Cube controller. Still, this game isgood. The story mode begins with a giant and 
 mean looking monkey snatching golden bananas! Although this may sound like a rip of to Donkey Kong 
 64, this game is totally different. You must travel through 8 various themed worlds in an attempt 
 to claim your possessions! The story is good in sense of idea. I preferred it over the initial 
 Super Monkey Ball Story initiative; however, the story is really easy towards the end of it all. 
 2 levels out of the 8 available may prove a challenge but they are all easily overcome in about 
 30 minutes. Levels are brought out well and they use the great functions of the motion sensitive 
 controller. For one, jumping has been a gift... yet it makes the game harder by throwing some levels 
 that require you to jump for your life.
  Bosses in story are assorted and pretty tough as far as their exterior goes. There is always a 
 marked weakness so dont be too frightened. Bosses may get annoying but they are straightforward 
 to overcome as you master the control set up. Well theres your wrap on Story Mode.
  Mini games are what had me occupied while playing this game. The ridiculously large selection of 
 50 assorted mini games narrows down to 10 games that are awesome to play. Yeah, eighty percent 
 of the games are terriblebut the games that are fun are so awesome you could play a single of 
 the bunch for hours and hours. Multiplayer is a nice addition for the Mini games, but sadly it 
 is unavailable in Story Mode.
  Game/Play: 8/10
  Graphics are pretty good in this game, particularly for what the Wii has showed us thus far. The 
 only game that has better graphics is Twilight Princess, but other than that, I think this game 
 has nice cheery graphics to keep you entertained. All of the monkeys look good in their own unique 
 way. Worlds are various and filled with different assortments of colors. To top it all of, the 
 Mini Games all have different original backgrounds. Graphics are really good in what Super Monkey 
 Ball aims for: simple yet detailed enough to make a gamer have an enjoyable experience.
  Graphics: 9/10
  Sound: Music is okay and the monkeys sound alright, but there is nothing special 
 in this department. The levels have different music but you can tell that they slightly repeat 
 themselves from previous places. The announcer is okay too, but Im tired of hearing him yell Goal! 
 all the time. Sound demonstrates nothing new but not bad to be ignored
  Sound: 7/10
  Value: For the price Id say buy it, yet it depends on what type of gamer you are. You like challenges 
 than avoid it but if you want a fun well brought out overall great experience-particularly with 
 multiple players-than definitely try it out. To those who are unsure just rent it for a while and 
 see what you think.
  Value: 8/10
  Reviewers Tilt: Does this mean what others think about the game? Well, I have heard mixed reactions 
 about this game. Some like it while others dont even bother beating the game they say it is so 
 simple and repetitive. This game isnt the worst but you cant call it a must have Lets just 
 put it at that. Mixed reactions here, but most people are on the positive side and recommend it.
 
  Reviewers Tilt: 8/10
  Overall Monkey Ball brings back memories with renewed controls and features. It is much different 
 from the other monkey ball games, so dont think too lowly of it as far as repetitiveness goes. 
 The graphics are great and sound is just above average. Wii owners who need a good game may want 
 to consider this one. I thank you for reading this and if it helpedI hope you made the right choice. 
 That concludes this review
  Peace
  -Oblivion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dekehead
Rating: 3.6
Date: Feb 7, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  How this got the grade that it received is beyond me... Reading the initial staff review of this 
 game, I was looking forward to a decent game that would display the capabilities of the Wii remote... 
 What I got was a few nights of frustration and the will to test my Wii remote leash by throwing 
 it as hard as I can at my TV... I admit, I wasn't a huge fan of the previous games in the franchise 
 BUT (with that being said) I was also not a fan of any of the previous Wario games and I love the 
 newest addition (Warioware Smooth Moves) , SOO I feel my review isn't biased. I'm willing to give 
 a game a chance no matter my previous experiences...
  
  Anyway, down to business... I decided to start this baby up with my girlfriend and play a little 
 'party mode'. What an awful party... The bugs were already present when trying to choose what mini-game 
 we wanted to play. Having to twist the remote to move the cursor left or right is an annoying task 
 in itself, but we chalked it up to our newness to the system and moved on. We start up a game and 
 am met by a quick on-screen tutorial. The tutorials aren't exactly self explained. They are awful 
 gifs that show you the basics of the gameplay of the individual mini-game. NO, both me and my girlfriend 
 aren't simpletons. We're experienced gamers and haven't had any previous problems on any Wii game 
 we've played. We start up the game, follow the gameplay tutorial, and well... Everything doesn't 
 work exactly as advertised. One quick example is the minigame frog ball ... Both me and my girlfriend 
 were soon rendered useless as our avatars turned themselves to the wall and proceed to refuse to 
 turn the direction we want... Simply awful. I'm tired of wasting my time on this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sCaReCr0W
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 3, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  For a console that has presented itself as something inventive with its new method of control, 
 one has to ask the question - what would best utilize Wiis uniqueness? Japanese developer Sega 
 attempts to answer that question, touting their adorable monkeys. The familiar faces of AiAi, MeeMee, 
 and GonGon have returned, with new friends, and they must retrieve the golden bananas. Banana Blitz 
 has an unfortunately soiled single player, and too many mini-games to properly take advantage of. 
 Roll the monkeys!
  
  The monkey ball concept has found its destined home on Wii, with the tilt sensor and gyroscope 
 technology of the Wii remote being the perfect control method. Tilt forward to see your hapless 
 monkey roll onward, turn left, right, or go back. It may be the simplest control setup for a game, 
 ever. New for Banana Blitz, however, pressing A will make your monkey hop. At first this doesnt 
 seem like a significant, game changing twist on the already brilliant design. But it is, and regrettably 
 its not for the better.
  
  Jumping adds two new layers to the majority of levels. The first of these layers is lazier design. 
 The designers no longer need to think up as bizarre or daunting levels for players, simply replacing 
 many obstacles with stairs, or humps and bumps to prevent your monkey ball from smoothly gliding 
 over surfaces. The dizzying quality of speeding along tight platforms without falling off has been 
 replaced by headache inducing screen shaking from repeated jumping. The sheer smoothness of the 
 levels has been forsaken, in this respect, and Banana Blitz simply isnt as dazzling because of 
 it.
  
  The second layer is a far greater amount of frustration ever received from previous games in the 
 series. The level design isnt as devious in Banana Blitz, but with the surplus of jumping obstacles, 
 and a jumping mechanic that is far from desirable, you may find yourself swearing at the cutesy, 
 innocent monkeys. The real downfall of jumping, however, is the lack of feasible precision. In 
 one level, after climbing a steep tower, youre faced with a curvy jump, and unlike the subtle 
 touch it takes to move your monkey ball along, youll find no similar available mastery for jumping. 
 Just take the leap, and hope youre not victimized by bad positioning that you have little control 
 over. The movement of your monkey ball, by tilting the Wii remote, is surprisingly accurate, and 
 very responsive. For a significant amount of the single player, the feeling of moving your monkey 
 ball around with the remote is a sort of saving grace.
  
  The single player consists of eight worlds, each with eight movement puzzles to complete, and rounded 
 up with a boss fight. These new boss encounters arent anything special or memorable, but arent 
 particularly bad either. The time spent of these boss encounters would have been more wisely invested 
 in more puzzles for the player. The single player will last you several hours, as youll be replaying 
 many of the later levels, thanks to the ramped up difficulty. It also takes quite a bit of time 
 to sift through all of the multiplayer mini-games.
  
  Both of the previous Monkey Ball games found astonishing replayability from Monkey Target, one 
 mini-game. This single mini-game was enough to keep you coming back to both games, long after growing 
 tired of what else the games had to offer. Banana Blitz has over fifty mini-games, but none of 
 them have been perfected. There are plenty of good ones, and too many not-so-good ones. But after 
 youve played the worthy ones a few times, youll be finished with the multiplayer, and move on 
 to other, better games on Wii. Monkey Target does make a return, but only with one lonely, simple, 
 target. The games are fun to experiment with at first, but have zero lasting power.
  
  Banana Blitz overlays some cel-shading onto the already playful presentation. The bright and cheerful 
 worlds are given a particularly clean look, with sharp defined edges. The monkeys expressions 
 are happier, and more frightened, than ever before. Their eyes pop wide open the closer you edge 
 towards the bottomless pits of despair, flailing their stubby little arms in desperate attempts 
 at keeping their balance. The Monkey Ball series is truly bizarre, and beautifully unique. The 
 cheery nature of the often paradise-like worlds is brought an odd and noticeably demented atmosphere. 
 It may not even be deliberate, beyond the main idea of having monkeys trapped inside bubbles in 
 the first place.
  
  Theres no doubt in ones mind, after playing a Monkey Ball game, that the designers must have been 
 on something to come up with something so maddeningly happy. Its good to see Banana Blitz define 
 the visual flair needed for such an uncanny game. And the extremely catchy, upbeat, joyous soundtrack 
 only adds to the frightening wackiness. The music is perfectly in line for the nature of Monkey 
 Ball, more so than previous games in the series. Far more importantly, however, is how the tunes 
 manage to be less irritating than youd expect from such a cutesy game.
  
  With a group of friends, the surplus of mini-games can be amusing for a good time simply for their 
 fantastic variety. Youll move from a first-person shooter, to a tight rope contest, to fencing. 
 Banana Blitz succeeds in this way, but fails in ways it shouldnt have. It mucks up the single 
 player with jumping, boss fights, and genuinely less remarkable puzzles. And the multiplayer is 
 nothing to write home about. Its indisputably disappointing to see Monkey Ball for Wii, the perfect 
 platform for the series, get such unfaithful treatment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nomis11
Rating: 6.6
Date: Feb 1, 2007 2:17 am PT
Review:  Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz is an awesome game, at first. You can have fun with --some -- of 
 the mini-games, and the main game is fun to play aswell. But, after all the hype of the Wii-Controller 
 wares off, and you've played each mini-game once or twice... it gets boring...! Only 5-10 of the 
 MG's are even worth playing more than once or twice, the others suck due to control issues, camera 
 issues, or just a bad concept. As for the main game... i almost threw up the first time i played 
 it for more than 30 minutes... and that isn't good in a game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aravindashwin
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 31, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  I love this game! Its so cute and fuzzy and awesome and cuddly! 20 of the 50 party games are fun, 
 the others are kinda buggy or the controls are bad. The single player game balances this all out 
 though. It adds the ability to jump, which adds a new dimension of play. Going too slow? Jump foreward, 
 and your speed will increase! Although it may look easy, it gets REAL hard very soon. Im talking 
 World 5 soon. The characters all are cute, and have their own special abilities and continue screens. 
 For example, Ai Ai gives you a thumbs up, GonGon powers up and makes meteors fall down, baby stops 
 crying, and YanYan makes flowers appear. This game had me hooked from the cute preview screen song 
 on the Wii menu. If you get angry very easily then you shouldnt get this game, because you will 
 get angry ALOT from the single player game. But through all the downsides, the graphics rock, the 
 music is painfully catchy, and the minigames and main game are fun. SO if you like monkeys, ( like 
 me) and if you like balls, ( like me) then Super Monkey Ball Banana Blitz is the game for you!!! 
 GO MONKEY BALL!!!! MONKEY MONKEY MONKEY!!!!!!!!! Go now to the nearest Gamestop and buy this game 
 before i beat you with the sharpened branch of an oak tree! Really... Go buy it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Jaminson
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 29, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  The story of the single player mode in this game is really quite simple: Aiai and the rest of the 
 monkeys are gazing upon a collection of 8 golden bananas which are soon after stolen by a large 
 pink baboon in a floating pirate ship. Then Aiai and his friends set off to get them back. The 
 gameplay is almost what you would expect seeing that you use the Wii remote. You tilt the remote 
 to the left or right to move and down to accelerate and back to slow down. This actually works 
 quite well once you take the few minutes to get use to the sensitivity and timing the jumps. The 
 ability to jump is actually a new gameplay mechanic in the Monkey Ball series. This definitely 
 makes the occasional puzzle easier but in general the levels are built around the ability to jump. 
 There are 50 minigames in this game as well. Most of them are good for a multiplayer setting, some 
 are good even alone and others are just not that great such as a certain squash mini game.
  
  The graphics are very pleasant to just look at. They keep some of the style from former monkey 
 ball installments while revamping them and giving them a whole new cartoony look. The graphics 
 were smooth, and detailed where they needed to be. The backrounds beyond the levels all had an 
 interesting style to them but some of they were a little bit too faded for my liking. I prefer 
 the style of backgrounds found in Super Monkey Ball 2. The soundtracks were all cheerful and catchy 
 to an extent. The sound effects all fit in quite nicely but i seem to remember enjoying the sounds 
 from #2 a while back. In the end the soundtracks really made for a memorable set in this game. 
 The single player game wont take you more than 3 or 4 hours if you have trouble of some of the 
 levels like i did. When the game is supposed to be hard it really is. There are many minigames 
 to keep the replayability up there. All in all this is a great game. But it doesnt manage to be 
 quite as good as some of its predecessors. Saying Rent it first isnt necessarily a bad thing, its 
 only saying that this game isnt for everyone, but is for most people out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonzilla_basic
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 29, 2007 4:53 am PT
Review:  First Impression:
  
  I have never played the series before so i didnt have big expectations. Everything looks good and 
 the controls look easy enough.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The Gameplay is very good in the single player. One of the big things is that your shoulder gets 
 sore. Which i am fine with. The controler has to be right on with the motion sensor. If you haveing 
 any issues playing the game (s) check your position. It will solve the mnajority of your problems. 
 This game does take awhile to get used to as well. The multiplayer is the most fun and some of 
 the games are really frustrating. but overall a great set of games
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are decent. I would say for the style of game. They werent going for realisim but 
 for a monkey game the graphics are just fine. Really bright enviroments. Characters look alright.
 
  
  Sound:
  
  Sound is alright. Really nothing special. But the music fits the enviroment .
  
  Overall:
 
  
  The game is fun. But its all in the multiplayer. 50 minigames and a great party game. Its a good 
 game to get for the kiddies, but really not for serious gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LucasAW
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jan 26, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  SMB: BB seemed to be getting a few decent reviews and on odd website (like GS) the enjoyment to 
 be had was raved about. I was still put off by the fact that magazines seemed to be saying it was 
 hardly worth playing. But anyway, I thought I should give it a blast and was chuffed when I received 
 it for Christmas. So, why the contradictory reviews? And is the game actually any good?!
  
  Single Player.
  First thing to think about is, as soon as you get to the main menu of this game, 
 the first available option is the mini  games, if you tilt to the left you will be able to access 
 single player. I have no problems with that except, from this point on I realised that this game 
 was mainly multiplayer focused. I knew that it was aimed towards multiplayer aspects, but I did 
 not realise that is was relying so heavily on its multiplayer.
  
  From the moment you play the single player mode, you realise the amount of thought and effort put 
 into single player - hardly any. Basically I've played this game before on the cube, simply without 
 the Wii remote and with just as good... no, better graphics (seem to be crisper, with nicer textures) .
 
  
  The first two worlds are fairly compelling and enjoyable just because of the novelty of being able 
 to play Monkey Ball with a Wii Controller. However, after the initial wow! You get to grips with 
 the controls and prepare yourself for winding challenges. Sadly instead what you get is annoying 
 obstacles, slowly moving bridges, pathetic camera angles and dodgy physics. Not to mention the 
 soundtrack. I had to turn the volume down because of how accursedly annoying it is. There isnt 
 and option to disable it!
  
  I have to expand on the slow moving bridges, because these things are extremely annoying. You have 
 to stand next to the ledge until you can get on the bridge, which means balancing the controller 
 (which is easy) . What isn't easy and what is incredibly annoying is the fact that the viewing angle 
 doesnt know which way to look at the ball. Swinging left and right and spinning around and around, 
 meaning by the time the bridge gets to the ledge (which in my opinion, is far too long) you don't 
 know which way to tilt the remote, because of the constantly moving angle. This game would be easier 
 to play if it had a pre-rendered background with fixed angles! Resi  evil style!
  
  The physics are also particularly bad. In fact, it isn't just the physics alone. Its the combination 
 of misleading objects in your path. For example; a spiky metal rounded thing is in the middle of 
 the track, you run into it at a moderate speed. What you would expect to happen, with and object 
 that looks as dense and solid as it does, is for it to stop you moving, maybe bouncing you backwards 
 slightly. However, what actually happens is it springs you hard, and fast in a random direction. 
 Incorrect physics and lack of thought put into the way obstacles look. This is misleading and gives 
 the player yet another annoying surprise.
  
  Now, onto yet another weakness of the game - the graphics. I understand that graphics arent important, 
 as without good gameplay, they are meaningless. However, SMB: BB's graphics are particularly nasty. 
 The game looks cartoony in a very plastic, featureless way. No thought put into characters, backgrounds, 
 textures, bosses or anything. Absolutely unforgivable, Sega should know better than that.
  
  The final major downfall the single player mode has is as follows Picture this, you make it 
 through a tough level, full of the most annoying obstacles the game has, bouncing you with its 
 physicsless randomness throughout the track. Youre right next to the finish when a speed bump, 
 for some reason randomly catapults you off the track, shows you a damn replay of the lack of physics 
 and then plops you at the start of the track. Now, does that give you an incentive to complete 
 the level and continue playing? No. Have the developers never considered or heard of checkpoints? 
 A half-way checkpoint that you re-spawn at after passing would make the game a whole lot less annoying 
 than it already is.
  
  Overall the single player experience was horrid. I wouldnt even recommend giving it a short go, 
 because you'll simply get annoyed. NOT an enjoyable experience by any means. No other word can 
 be used other than annoying when describing the experience I had playing it.
  
  Multiplayer.
  So, the single player was that bad... there must be redemption in the multiplayer 
 party games . Well there is... kind of.
  
  Some of the multiplayer games, although simple and very lacklustre in the graphics department, 
 are fairly enjoyable. I played through them all on my own first, which helped me single down the 
 decent games (so as to not scare people away from the horrible gameplay) . Once finding the enjoyable 
 games, it really is a good laugh when versus a pal (s) .
  
  Even the main focus of the game, the multiplayer is very lacklustre and leaves you with an empty-wallet 
 kind of feeling (even thought this game was bought me!!!) . There are simply too many trash multiplayer 
 games. After sifting through all the rubbish, your reward is a moderately enjoyable experience 
 at best. Better off playing Wii Sports, or even Wii Play!
  
  Overall, I honestly believe this game is lacklustre throughout. There is no other way to put it. 
 There are hardly ANY fun parts to a supposable awesome game. It is poorly presented from start 
 to finish. Little thought put into gameplay, sounds, visuals, artwork, boss battles, physics, textures 
 etc By the time I had finished playing this game for good, the only positive I can draw from the 
 game is this: SMB: BB is SEGAs first bash with the Wii, and this failed experiment that SEGA had, 
 just might point them in the right direction when making any new titles for the Wii.
  
  The goods:
  + Some fun multiplayer mini games
  + Using the Wiimote is fun for the first couple 
 of worlds in single player
  
  The bads:
  - No tolerable graphics
  - Annoying soundtrack
  - Annoying physics
  - Boring levels
  - Repetitive gameplay
  - Monotonous 
 boss fights
  
  What can I say? I strongly recommend staying away from SMB: BB. I couldnt wait to play it and after 
 playing it, I hate it. However, everyone is different. Hardcore MB fans or even puzzle fans may 
 overlook what I see in the game and enjoy it. But my serious, honest and final opinion: stay away 
 from this failed experiment!
  
  Thanks for reading as usual pretty long winded. Any comments ) /forum invites regarding opinions 
 on SMB: BB are welcome :) (drop a message by) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smilyretart
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 25, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  A fun all around game that will have you entertained for hours. The flaws of this game would include 
 it feels like your repeating the same level again and again as the levels are very repetitive. 
 The mini games are fun add-in while in regular story mode it is common for projectile vomit as 
 the ultra-sensative monuvers make the screen constanly turn in a stomach churning revolving screen. 
 In my opinion this game would be more for renting then buying, but if those fun party games stuffed 
 with mini-games features and add-ins then this is a game worth buying, hope this helped 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destiny_Hero
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 21, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  The Controls:
  HORRIBLE!!!!! In the minigames, the way the controls are told is terreble, and often takes WAY 
 too long just to read them. In ANY game that you move the Wiimote closer or farther, IT DOESN'T 
 SENSEIT. And keeping the Wiimote on the screen is a miracle of it even possible!!! The menu controls 
 suck, and make no use of the Wii's capabilities, and take hours to type in a stupid name!!! Also, 
 if you do a minigame- which are al the same thing!- once you start, the only way to play it again 
 is to end it, which takes WICKED LONG, and the select it again. So it takes about 3 minutes just 
 to play! It shows the gameover screen too long!
  It also finds the need to show you how to play the main game over and over and over again, and 
 the controls for that are BROKEN, and it's impossible to turn or stop fully.
  
  The levels:
  This game..... I HATE IT!!!! Can you belive, that the makers of this piece of crap, 
 ACTUALLY spent HOURS on EVERY LEVEL, JUST TO MAKE IT  
 Yes, THEY DO!!! They make EVERY timing right, so if you do it almostany way possible, YOU DIE, 
 making the only way to win a level, following the EXACT path the makers want you to. Anything else, 
 and this cheap, cheap, horrible, crappy, sucky, short game will kill you.
  
  In conclusion, I regret ever even hearing the words Super , Monkey , and Ball in the same week.
 
  
  I'm not kidding: this game was SO bad, I locked it away so I would never be able to play it again. 
 I really, REALLY, did that, and once again- I'm not kidding. As if putting in a corner wasn't good 
 enough &gt;_&lt;
  And I also hope that I never, EVER, find the key, and open the lock in which I hid away this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexyfatman24
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 21, 2007 2:52 am PT
Review:  This fun-filled game jumps right into action. If you haven't played any of the other monkey balls 
 then you are in for a treat. The multiplayer party games is a section of the game that you will 
 spend countless hours on. Over 50 minigames fill this turely incredible game. The single player 
 is kinda fun, but it gets boring quickly. The music in this game is sweet, but gets annoying after 
 a while. The graphics are very cartoony and kidish, but graphics don't make a video game.
  
  Gameplay may get annoying becuase you have to teach yourself how to do each mini game. BTW: 
 (The baseball, bowling, boxing, tennis, and golf don't match up to wii sports at all.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaWeapon9
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 30, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz is without a doubt one of the best games that you can get for your 
 Nintendo Wii at launch. Much like the original Super Monkey Ball , that released at launch of the 
 GameCube. Banana Blitz encompasses great and challenging gameplay. As well as an array of multi-player 
 options that will keep you busy for quite some time. However, beyond being just plain fun. Banana 
 Blitz is also a great use of the Wii's motion sensing technology. Performing a great job in demonstrating 
 what the Wii is capable of.
  
  For those of you that arent in the know. The Super Monkey Ball series of puzzle games, consists 
 of you in charge of getting a monkey in a round ball threw a series of obstacle courses. By doing 
 so, you must tilt the stage in such a way as to get the monkey to the goal. As well as dodging 
 and dangers, or having your monkey fall off the side of the stage.
  
  In the past games, you tilted the stage by tilting the analog stick. However, in Banana Blitz you 
 control the stage by tilting the wiimote from side-to-side, as well as up and down. While some 
 may still pine for the original control scheme. There opinion may change after experiencing the 
 new way the game plays. The Wiimote really amplifies and enhances the gameplay. It feels more fluid 
 and seamless. However, with that comes some problems. For one, its hard balancing the momentum 
 of the monkey. Making some issues in stages hard to get around, and difficult to complete.
  
  There is also one rather large change to the main gameplay, beyond the motion sensing. That 
 is the inclusion of a jump button. By pressing the A button on the wiimote, the monkey will jump. 
 As meaningless as this sounds. It really changes up the gameplay rather significantly. As well 
 as taken into the design of the levels, to create some inventive challenges.
  
  The Main Game , is where you play threw all of these obstacle courses. The game is broken up into 
 eight different world that take place in different land masses and themes. In those different worlds, 
 there are eight stages, as well as a boss fight at the end of those stages. The series has always 
 been known for its challenge, and Banana Blitz is no different. Expect to muscle your way threw 
 many different and rather difficult stages. As you make your way threw the games main brunt of 
 gameplay. Which will take you anywhere from four to six hours.
  
  Beyond the Main Game , in regular Monkey Ball fashion, you have the Party Game mode. Of which, 
 Banana Blitz has over fifty different party games that all take good use of the wiimote and nunchuck.
 
  
  The Party Game aspect of banana Blitz takes a more quantity over quality mantra. As only about 
 half of the games encompasses enough entertainment to keep you interesting beyond only a couple 
 of plays. This is due to the fact that some mini-game concepts repeat themselves in other mini-games, 
 but are just disguised with different themes. As well as the sheer fact that some of the mini-game 
 concepts just arent very interesting to keep you playing for more then just a couple of tries.
 
  
  However, despite that, the mini-games will no doubt deliver an interesting and solid experience 
 among multi-player parties and get-tethers. As well as the fact that you may just find some personal 
 favorites among these mini-games that will keep you coming back to best your scores and so on.
 
  
  The presentation in Banana Blitz is rightly colorful and vibrant. The stages and worlds are a delight 
 to the eyes, and look even better running on a nice HD television in 480p. The menu's are pleasant 
 and set the mood for the game. As well as every other facet of the game is brimming with color 
 and life. From a technical standpoint, some of the items and parts of the stages can look inappropriately 
 blocky or off from the rest of the games look. As well as some other omissions. However, the pure 
 gist of the game looks very nice and joyful.
  
  The audio is also not without special mention. The soundtrack is nicely upbeat and fits the stages 
 very well. The voices for the monkeys are very nice and also do a good job of fitting the mood. 
 The sound effects are also spot on and feel in place. All of this comes together to make Banana 
 Blitz a real feast for the ears as well.
  
  Nintendo has always touted the Wii as a machine that focusing on multiplayer and enjoyment for 
 the masses, and Banana Blitz is without a doubt the better demonstration of that belief at the 
 systems launch. Complete with an interesting and enjoyable single-player game, as well as a fun 
 and varied multiplayer mode. Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz is without a doubt a must own title 
 for anyone that is picking up a sleek new Nintendo Wii system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: September_Grey
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 21, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  When Super Monkey Ball Banana Blitz was announced for the Wii, it was one of the games that really 
 clicked with people. Using the motion sensing technology to roll those pesky monkeys around a 
 whole slew of movement puzzles seemed like a perfect fit for the system. However, it turns out 
 being just OK. On the Wii, Super Monkey Ball feels too imprecise, and it leads to quite a few unfair 
 deaths throughout the games slightly expanded single player mode. The unstable but ultimately 
 enjoyable multiplayer component picks up some slack for this, but its far from saving the package. 
 In the end, Super Monkey Ball Banana Blitz is a competent but thoroughly unimpressive game.
  
  Fans of previous Monkey Ball games are going to feel right at home during the games single 
 player mode, which has the player rolling a monkey encapsulated in a ball toward a finish gate, 
 which of course will send you toward the next stage. Of course, there are plenty of devious hurdles 
 that will see to it your victories dont come easy. Steep slopes, speed bumps thatll launch you 
 off course, spinning paddles that slap you around, and moving platforms that require you control 
 your speed carefully all make an appearance here, among others. In previous entries, single player 
 was handled solely with an analog stick, but here youll be tipping the Wii remote to roll your 
 monkey around the various levels.
  
  Problem is, these controls dont feel very good. Although basic maneuvering works well enough, 
 having to perform any quick changes in direction or speed is tantamount to frustration. As any 
 Monkey Ball player already knows, quickly diverting to another direction is frequently the difference 
 between a split-second save and an untimely demise. However, youll find the remote rarely has 
 that kind of accuracy. If you need to slow down in a hurry to wait for a moving platform, for example, 
 youll often find your Monkey stopand then start moving backward. Trying to inch yourself back 
 in the right direction while being mindful of pitfalls is often disorienting and humbling. While 
 its fun for a while to tip the remote around to play the game, youll likely find yourself itching 
 to be able to strap on the Nunchuck attachment and just use the analog stick to control the game.
 
  
  That being said, there are some interesting new additions to the standard Monkey Ball formula that 
 help give it at least a passing sense of innovation. The first is the ability to jump by pressing 
 the A button. It doesnt sound like much on paper, but jumping allows for some more geographically 
 diverse stage designs, as well as obstacles like moving bars where youll need to time your jumps 
 carefully. Overall, it makes a very simple game a slight increase in complexity, but ultimately 
 the addition isnt enough to make this game appreciably different or better than past entries.
 
  
  Banana Blitz also includes boss battles at the end of each world  of which there are eight  but 
 they too arent enough to make anyone sit up and take notice. This is mostly because every single 
 boss fight equates to dodging a predictable attack, waiting for a series of slow-moving projectiles 
 to reach you, and then jumping on them to return the fire and damage the boss. Ummwoohoo?
  
  Clearly, Banana Blitzs single player isnt going to win any points for originality. Make no 
 mistake; its still fairly solid stuff, and if youre a fan of Super Monkey Ball, youre going 
 to feel at home here. Its just that the Wii remote controls seem like a gimmicky way to hide that 
 fact that, after so many of these games, there just isnt much that can be added to it while still 
 maintaining the elegant simplicity thats crucial to the game. Although some attempts were made 
 to add to it meaningfully, this series is in danger of growing stale in a hurry.
  
  The multiplayer modes do help make Banana Blitz a more appealing option. However, these have the 
 unfortunate distinction of varying wildly in quality. There are a startling 50 in all, which seems 
 overwhelming at first. Youll quickly discover that many of these games arent a whole lot of fun, 
 though, and probably end up sticking with a handful of them. Some are a great deal of fun  Hammer 
 Throw has you twirling the controller to swing a hammer, then toss it forward and let it fly; 
 Racing Birds demands you flap both the remote and Nunchuck to gain speed, and then sway them 
 around to control your direction as you fly through rings. However, others like Trombone, which 
 has you playing music by positioning the controller at different depths relative to your screen 
  simply dont work well. Others still are just no fun; Jigsaw Puzzle tasks you with  you guessed 
 it  piecing together a jigsaw puzzle. Since when is that fun for anyone under the age of eighty? 
 Old favorites like Monkey Target, which has you flying and dropping onto targets, return as well. 
 Once you find a couple games you can get to really enjoy, the multiplayer settles into a pretty 
 good groove. Unfortunately, playing the same games over and over again turns repetitive.
  
  You can see all Banana Blitz has to offer in six hours or so, and its value beyond that really 
 depends on how well you can do with the iffy motion-sensing control scheme. Unfortunately, even 
 if you do come to grips with the unresponsive controls, theres just not anything substantial here 
 that you havent seen in the very first Super Monkey Ball game. Although it looks better than it 
 ever has, with lots of colorful backdrops and sharp visuals (especially in 480p) , its just not 
 enough to make this one easily recommendable. With a series that relies so much on its simplicity, 
 itll be interesting to see how  or if  it continues to evolve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sfpimp4151
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 19, 2007 11:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is simple to explain: You'll either hate it or love it. The single player game is the 
 basic super monkey ball story: you need to collect bananas. In this story mode, you go through 
 8 worlds twisting and tilting the wii-mote to the goal. The handling for the single player game 
 is very hard to adapt to, but once you do, its not all impressive. The really worth of the game 
 lies in the multi-player. This is easily a great party game and recommended to those with 2 sets 
 of wii-motes AND nun-chucks. Needless to say, 50 mini-games are always great for a party. Even 
 though there are some obvious misses with some mini-games, most are great. But to buy a 50$ game 
 for offline-only multi-player is a bit of a waste. Its definitely worth a play, but to wait for 
 a price drop would be most logical. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingBobCat
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 18, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  First of all, I am a long time Monkey Ball fan and was really looking forward to this version. 
 But I must sum up my feelings in one sentence:
  
  I ask myself ... Why do I love Monkey Ball, but dislike this game?
  
  For starters, the controls 
 are somewhat wonky and weird. And Monkey Ball is a game of precision; therefore, wonky controls 
 don't cut it. Also, the birds blowing you off the track addition genuinely sucks as it is hard 
 enough getting used to controller as it is. I lost all 11 of my Monkeys to Fallout on one track 
 (thanks to the birds in one particular spot) . Sorry, but even as an experienced Monkey Ball player, 
 that is more frustrating than challenging or fun.
  
  Furthermore, the party games are simply not as much fun. I remember the first time I played Monkey 
 Ball on a Gamecube at EB. I bought the Gamecube on the spot, based on Monkey Bowling and Monkey 
 Target alone. And I must say, I would still much rather play the original or MB2 than this version. 
 Sorry, but I am generally disappointed. Maybe it's a personal choice ... some people may really 
 like this version. For me, I put it aside for now, maybe I will come back to it ... or maybe not. 
 Regardless, I truly believe that there are many better games to spend my time with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacksantree23
Rating: 3.7
Date: Jan 17, 2007 10:53 pm PT
Review:  I played Super Monkey Ball Banana Blitz for about 45 minutes and I wanted to strangle somebody, 
 I can only imagine how those who have played for longer feel. Basically its a bunch of half-finished 
 mini game atrocities slapped together in what appears to be a matter of minutes, as they lack both 
 substance and a controller scheme that's actually functional. I found myself taking 30 swings in 
 the golf mini-game before the ball actually moved and when it did my very light swing produced 
 a gargantuan approach shot that put me farther away from the green then when I started. I thought 
 perhaps it was a fluke mini-game, but attempt after attempt revealed that a healthy majority were 
 defective. To confirm it was not just my Wii-Mote malfunctioning I plugged in wii sports to find 
 my controller was in tip top shape. I find SMB-BB a skid-mark on the reputation of the Nintendo 
 Wii, and its high ratings on this very website force me to question Gamespot's judgement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExciteTruck
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 15, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  this is one of the more enjoyable games for the wii. but if they had you use the joystick on the 
 knumbchuck it would of ben alot better. This is the 2nd mnkey ball game i played and i think its 
 the best. you control these monkeys around with the wiimote and they move the direction you turn 
 and move the wiimote. its a great fun way of playing but its really risky at some points of levels 
 with no walls and stuff like that. there is even bosss in this game. its really amazing that there 
 are so many cool bosses that you figt. the boss battels are amazing. thjere are many colorful levels 
 and visuals and tyhe music is pretty enjoyable. I really like the minigames. There are so many 
 differnt types. there are 50 minigames and they are very unique in their own style. But some games 
 like the ringtoss game are very unplayable and get very hard to controll at sometimes. multiplayer 
 is fun and entertaining but it may make you go a little crazy with yo freinds. its a fun game to 
 play but the really crappycontrols ruined some of it. i may say its a rent but ists an okay buy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bededog
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 15, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Hi, Im back again to bring you my second Wiiview. :P Today I will be reviewing Super Monkey Ball 
 Banana Blitz, or Banana Blitz for short. Banana Blitz starts off with a short cutscene where a 
 weird pirate monkey steals a bronze/gold banana thing from the Monkey Ball monkeys. And for some 
 reason they chase after bad guys to get the bronze banana back. Why, I dont know. You cant eat 
 it, and I doubt its worth much but okay. You will then be dropped into the first level of this 
 crazy game. Like past monkey ball games you must tilt the environment to move you monkey, who is 
 in a ball, to the finish line. This can be very hard and it doesnt help that you have a limited 
 time to do it. You will tilt the world just like you would think, by tilting the Wiimote. You hole 
 the Wiimote like you pointing it at the screen and you tilt it up, down, etc. This works but I 
 dont really like it. I think it would have been better if they let you hold the Wiimote like a 
 NES controller and tilt it that way. I dont know why but it seems it would be better and more 
 comfortable. If you have played a Monkey Ball game before this game so far sounds like the same 
 old with a new control scheme. Well this is where it stands out. Banana Blitz has a new fresh look 
 and you can now jump in the game. The jump mechanic adds quite a lot to the franchise. And the 
 new look, while still cartoony, does the game justices. As with all Monkey Ball games, this game 
 is very hard. Once you get past the first few worlds you will reach harder and harder levels. This 
 could make or break the game for you. Some of the later levels are amazingly hard. But if you have 
 the patience to beat the game it makes all the sweeter. Now lets go onto the minigames. The minigame 
 section has grown life of its own as the Monkey Ball series has progressed. Banana Blitz has 50 
 minigames. Now before you go and buy this as a party game be warned, most of the minigames a very 
 mixed bag. Of the minigames half are fun to play and work great. But then there is the other half. 
 They control horridly. And the ones that you can control arent any fun or innovated. And some 
 of them take so long to do you will get bored of them before you finish one game. This is especially 
 true if you are playing with many people. But there are some good things about the minigames. For 
 example, many of them dont use the nunchuk so its a life savor if you cant find extra nunchuks 
 like me. And some of the minigames can give you quite a work out. Well, Im just about done reviewing 
 this game, but there are still some things that bug me about the game. For one thing, while you 
 are fighting the bosses at the end of the worlds there will be an annoying lock of feature. This 
 will hinder you in many of the bosses and is very annoying. Now I only have one more complaint 
 about the game. While the controls work, I would prefer to use an analog stick instead of the Wiimote. 
 Im not trying to bash the controls, it just may be me, but I feel an analog stick works better 
 for this game. Overall Banana Blitz is a fun game but has missed the mark. The controls could use 
 some tweaking and the minigames are a mixed bag. This is an average game and isnt worth the $50. 
 If you want a good party game you can just buy Wario Ware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msteryx
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 17, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz is one of the Nintendo Wii`s launch titles and its is fun can be 
 pretty frustrating from time to time. SMB: BB is aside Zelda Twilight Princess for me. This game 
 makes the Wii look like a next gen console for controls!
  
  This game, like Super Monkey Ball 2 has a story to it which involves a monkey in a purple coat 
 which appears to be a pirate, steals a pair of Gold Bananas and you set up to each world of the 
 game ranging from jungle to ocean finding the bananas from each one. Which eventually leads up 
 to you meeting with this monkey in the final world. You can play as two new monkeys in this game 
 too! Doctor who I believe is crazy and a girl who``s name I forgot.
  
  Each Monkey now has different abilities! Some can jump higher than the others or can plow through 
 some objects that are placed such as bumps!
  
  This game has 50 mini-games whick picks up since you can`t play against your friends in story mode 
 levels or any other levels. Some mini-games make you use the nun-chuck controller which is great 
 but not if you want to buy another one for multi-player.
  
  The Gameplay is still the same get your monkey to the end through a gate but with a new twist were 
 in some levels you have to jump over objects! Thats right you can jump in this game! They also 
 through in bosses for every world that posses your golden banana! The bosses weak points are pointed 
 out be a giant pimple or spot on there body.
  
  The controls in this game is what sets it apart from the other games in series! Tilting your Wii-Mote 
 will cause the monkey you select to move in that direction! It sounds simple, but its very hard 
 and at times won't respond causing you to fall of the stage and it can get pretty hard if your 
 fighting a boss. Bosses can make you fall off the stage easily since the bosses attacks can be 
 deadly! Jumping is down by tapping the A button. The jumping can make things harder and easier 
 at thew same time! You can jump over some ledges providing short-cuts or you might have to jump 
 onto a moving platform! But in the later stages of the game its ver hard and very frustrating. 
 You can easily over accelerate and fall off the edge or just hit a little bump and go flying!
 
  
  I don`t really care much about graphics but this game is a big enhancement over the other games 
 in the series.
  
  The camera angles follows you and turns when you turn which can lead to horrible places! If you 
 get stuck behind a folding obstacle you won't see you but the thing itself and you WILL fall off 
 the side.
  
  Overall this is a great game and can show what the Wii can do! The controls can get pretty hard 
 but I suggest that every Wii owner try this game or own it! You will have great fun by yourself 
 or with your buddies! But if you hate time to time bad camera angles and you get frustrated don't 
 buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elethiomel
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jan 8, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  The main game is interesting, but a little frustrating in terms of the controls. The mini-games 
 are really not very good, and the controls are WAY, WAY, WAY too sensitive. When playing BB, I 
 actually thought my wii-mote was broken until I loaded up Wii Sports and found that it was the 
 game itself that was screwy.
  
  For example, games that use the wii-mote to point ask to you calibrate by first pointing at the 
 center of the screen. I found myself holding the controller at awkward angles (along all axes) 
 to get the reticle in the center of the screen. This made playing the games that require moving 
 the controller in all three dimensions (and it was many of them) too difficult.
  
  I definately recommend Rayman Raving Rabbids instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 112505
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 7, 2007 11:15 pm PT
Review:  I was quite skeptic about picking this game up for I didn't quite like arcade like games like Monkey 
 Ball but when I played it I was quite surprised.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay of this game is top notch. You get fifty party games to play and they don't 
 all use the monkey in a ball type gameplay so there is something fresh every time you try out a 
 minigame.
  The main story that involves rolling a ball around places to reach a goal in a portal is surprisingly 
 fun and additctive and even sometimes frustrating. What's more the game uses the Wiimote quite 
 innovatively and inventively in most of the minigames and main story.
  
  Graphics: The graphics aren't that flash but the style fits the game. The character models of the 
 monkeys are quite comical and cute looking which is rather nice. This game isn't that great in 
 the graphics department but you have to remember this is a launch game and it does look better 
 than some of the other Wii launch games.
  
  Sound: Most of the music in this game was borrowed from Super Monkey Ball DS. The music isn't bad 
 nor that great but it at least doesn't hurt your ears like some of music in games out there right 
 now. There are sound effects for many things and some of the sounds that the monkeys make sounds 
 really cute.
  
  Value:
  This game has quite good value. I didn't think that this game was worth the one hundred Australian 
 dollars when I first picked it up but it soon dawned on me of the replayability you can get out 
 of this because the main story has high scores and more bananas to be collected.
  There is also the fifty minigames that will keep you and your family and friends occupied while 
 they try out beat each other.
  
  Summary:
  Super Monkey Ball is truely a great launch game for Wii that showcases the Wiimote quite well with 
 nice and addictive gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Happy_Cloud
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 10, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  There are few games out there that look as cute as Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz. The visuals 
 are all very bright and colorful, with a gorgeous cartoony style. It's hard to believe, that under 
 this cute and cuddly exterior, there is such a challenging and unforgivable game.
  
  To put it simply, Banana Blitz is hard, though really that's what one would expect from the Monkey 
 Ball franchise. Playing Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz is deceptively simple. Instead of controlling 
 the monkey itself, you must tilt the Wii remote forwards, backwards, left and right to move the 
 entire level, causing the monkey to roll down the downward gradient. In a first for the series, 
 you can now press the A button to make your monkey jump, a new skill which you need to make it 
 over certain hurdles and holes in each course.
  
  These controls are ingeniously simple, yet it takes a certain level of finesse to properly execute 
 them. You'll find it's all too easy to roll off the level, and all too often will your adorable 
 little monkey plummet into the seemingly bottomless abyss.
  
  Handling the momentum of your monkey can be near impossible, and often, you'll want to take it 
 as slow as you can. Yet slow is not always an option as you must deal with draconian time limits, 
 and steep slops that transform your cute little monkey into a cute little blur. Eventually though, 
 you will get the hang of the subtle movements the game requires.
  
  It takes a bit of getting used to, and thankfully, the first few worlds are mercifully simple, 
 though you will never have the chance to get too comfortable, because before long it will take 
 several attempts and considerable mental stress to get through each level.
  
  In the later stages especially, this game gets ridiculously, excruciatingly difficult, yet its 
 often hard to get mad at such a sweet, innocent little game which somehow manages to keep you feeling 
 positive.
  
  At the end of each world you will face a boss, which as the rest of the game can also be challenging. 
 These battles are made more difficult than they needed to be due to some camera issues, as the 
 camera will always focus on the boss, making it difficult to avoid rolling off the platform.
  
  Conquering the main quest of Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz is a mentally draining experience, 
 albeit very satisfying when completed. I freely admit, after I had cleared world 8, there were 
 tears. Though as tough as it is, it doesn't take very long at all to roll your way through each 
 of the eight levels despite the amount of attempts many levels will take.
  
  Luckily, there's more to Banana Blitz than its main quest, and the game boasts a whopping number 
 of 50 mini games, or party games as Banana Blitz likes to call them.
  
  Each of these games can be played with 2 or more people, and you'll find the collection offers 
 the perfect Wii multiplayer experience, though you can still have fun playing these by yourself.
 
  
  Sadly, the quality of these games is a little hit and miss and you'll find you'll have to sift 
 through several party games that don't warrant more than two or three plays before you get to the 
 real good ones.
  
  Still, many of these games are definitely well worth playing, and there is a surprising level of 
 variety in the tasks they will have you perform. Youll find yourself blasting enemy monkeys to 
 pieces, searching for underwater treasure, landing spaceships on the moon and racing tropical birds 
 through a forest.
  
  Its nice to have so many of these games to choose from, yet quality should always prevail over 
 quantity, and I feel the experience would have been more satisfying with a smaller selection, with 
 more games that are worth playing.
  
  The music in this game, like its visual style, is charming and upbeat. As annoying as some parts 
 of the game tend to be, the catchy tunes playing in the background somewhat soften the blow. However 
 the music does tend to get a little bit repetitive, especially considering there is only one track 
 that plays for each world, with the exception with the boss fights.
  
  With both the main game and the impressive selection of party games, there's a lot of value in 
 Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz and its addictiveness should keep you busy for awhile. Its easy 
 to be charmed by the games bright visual style and upbeat music, as well as the ever joyful monkeys, 
 who dont seem to mind being incased in their spherical prisons and constantly careering off the 
 face of the earth. Banana Blitz certainly won't appeal to everybody due to its steep learning curve 
 and its level of difficulty, but those who have the patience for it will grow to enjoy this sweet, 
 colourful and charming game, which is most definitely a lot of fun. No monkeys were harmed in the 
 making of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctcarton
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jan 7, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  The controls are not just difficult to get used to; they are downright painful. I can feel the 
 onset of carpel tunnel as I navigate my little monkey ball thing around.
  
  In order to roll forward you have to tilt the remote forward which is extremely uncomfortable. 
 And to turn you twist your wrist right or left. Left is fine (or right if you're left handed) but 
 twisting my wrist to the right is also extremely uncomfortable. I actually tried playing by holding 
 the remote with two hands but that wasn't much easier because of the shape. But that attempt made 
 me realize that if they used a control scheme that was closer to excite truck, that it might be 
 a much better game.
  
  Some may like it, but you should definitely rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DO646260
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 6, 2007 11:53 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed playing this game on the Wii and it definetly teaches ya different ways that the 
 controller can be used to play with... But I do not see as how its ratings can be better then Rayman 
 Raving Rabbids, considering the mini-games in Rayman seem to have at least SOME diversity in them, 
 ranging from shooting plungers to pulling worms from teeth, to even the ball rolling game... It 
 definetly had some interesting but frustrating points... Most of all the actual game of rolling 
 the ball, the controls can be a little on the weird side, as well as difficult to get to do what 
 you want. I would recommend that people at least give the game a try, even if they do not wish 
 to buy it... But I still think there are better choices to be made!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haven256
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 6, 2007 11:35 pm PT
Review:  good game as others have gone into detail about, but some flaws that you should know about before 
 buying. You cannot turn down the in game music. Nor can you turn it off. Some of the mini games 
 have very frustrating controls, such as ones where you have to move a cursor in 3d space with just 
 the Wii remote. I feel they should have used the nunchuck thumbpad to move forwards and backwards 
 - especially in the whack-a-mole game where you move the wii remote forward/back/left/right and 
 then make a whacking motion with the remote (which then throws off the cursor so you miss) . Also 
 in single player they should have used B as well as A to jump, as reaching onto the top of the 
 remote while tilting forward is awkward. on a positive note it has some of the smoothest anti aliased 
 graphics I have seen on Wii so far.
  
  Definitely a rental first. I feel that not enough quality assurance testing in the game play and 
 options (can't turn off the repetitive and in your face music!) really takes away from this being 
 a solid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboysfan87
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jan 6, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game because of the rave reviews and was shocked to find out how hard it is to play. 
 The games look like they would be VERY fun to play, but the instructions are horrible and, in my 
 case, they didn't work on every game as they should. Example, the whack a mole style game was so 
 sensitive as to how you moved the Wiimote, you would very, very easily shoot past the object you 
 were trying to hit. The only mini game I found fun and worked every time was the Home Run derby 
 mini game. If you aren't 12 years old, then this game is not for you because of the super fine 
 motor skills needed to get this game to play just right. The graphics are OK... in the league of 
 the Wii Sports. It's not High Tech but it is very well presented. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick21989
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 5, 2007 11:52 pm PT
Review:  I've never played a Super Monkey Ball game before but saw that it had 50 mini games and so I thought 
 I'd get it with some left over Holiday money and check it out. (Mario Party Games are my favorite) . 
 The story mode of Super Monkey Ball Banana Blitz is ok... just that. I mean yeah it's fun and all 
 but to tell you the truth after playing it for about 15 mins I felt like throwing up cause the 
 screen just didn't stop moving and I got motion sickness, something I've never goten from a game. 
 So that's when I decided to just stick to the Mini games. The Mini games are pretty fun... for the 
 most part. Some of them however gave me a headache because they are just so dang hard to try and 
 do on the remote. For whatever reason the remote has a hard time being found by the game, like 
 I would be pointing the remote at the middle of the TV and it would say it couldn't find it. The 
 instructions are not very clear at all either and go by so fast you just have to wait extra time 
 to read them all (they flip like a book and you don't have an option to read them one at a time, 
 pre-set speed) . The games are pretty fun though and if your into Mario Party or just doing crazy 
 things like boxing, puzzle games, golf, squash, tip-rope walking, etc. Then this game is definitely 
 worth checking out. Plus it's a great game to use with friends because they can all get in on the 
 action of the mini-games which can lead to some good times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mk200114
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jan 2, 2007 2:08 am PT
Review:  So, I was never curious about Super Monkey Ball when it first came out on the GameCube, although 
 my friend had bought it. It wasnt until years after the 2nd game came out that I grew a fond liking 
 for it. I bought Monkey Ball 2 from my younger cousin for $20, and now its become one of my favorite 
 games.
  
  Unfortunately, I cant say the same for Banana Blitz. The levels -- are elementary. And no, Im 
 not just talking about the bright colors. In my opinion, there are a few initial problems I noticed 
 about this game. Obviously, this version is geared much more towards younger kids and/or the mass 
 audience, so the levels have been painstakingly simplified. Also, its a Wii launch game, so maybe 
 they didnt want to make it too hard for those of us who have never held a Wiimote before. And, 
 like many other reviews have said, I really really wish they wouldve spent more time on the main 
 game than the mini games (but Ill go into more detail about that later) .
  
  New in this game is the jump button. Press A and your monkey can jump over obstacles and stuff. 
 As cool as it sounds, the A button is really just a big, fat, red, Easy button like the ones 
 you see on those Staples commercials. This game wouldve been so much better without it; although, 
 in actuality, its a necessity in Banana Blitz. You will fall out and retry levels many times, 
 not because they are difficult, but because the controls are as slippery as butter. I dont know 
 how many times I had to hit the jump button to keep myself from rolling off the stage. Eventually, 
 youll get the hang of these unorthodox controls, but probably not until you beat the game for 
 the first time. Because of how shaky the controls are, for the vast majority youll feel like youre 
 hoping your way to victory. The most challenging levels -- but most fun, if youre a veteran -- 
 do not come until the last two worlds. And within these last two worlds youll come across a few 
 levels that are genius. I hope the designers will take note of this and use these levels as inspiration 
 for the next Monkey Ball game.
  
  Also new to the game are bosses. Most of the bosses are fairly simple to beat, with you having 
 to hit a single weak spot multiple times. They serve as a nice break from the game, but are decidingly 
 an annoyance, because they divert from the games main objective.
  
  The mini games... are abysmal. Yes, you get 50 of them, but I think the reason there are so many 
 is just to raise the probability of you finding one you like. Out of the half that are somewhat 
 playable (the rest are on the verge of being broken) , youll probably find three or four that will 
 entertain you for 5 -10 minutes at most. A large sum of the mini games last no more than a minute 
 per play.
  
  This game is a bona fide rental -- well, maybe. Depending on how well you adjust to the controls, 
 the main game could take 5 - 8 hours to get through. None of your favorite mini games are here, 
 and the simplistic levels designs are almost worth chuckling at. Of course, if youre a big Monkey 
 Ball fan, you might want to add this game to your collection. Theres replay value in trying to 
 improve your high scores and quickening your times to the goal. Also, with 50 mini games, Banana 
 Blitz is one of the best party games on the Wii right now. Although, Wii Sports looks like Halo 
 compared to it. If youre not a Super Monkey Ball fan, I recommend you rent this game first; but 
 if you are and wish to purchase it, Id say wait until the price drops or maybe wait for the next 
 Monkey Ball game if you can. Theres no shame in going out and getting this game right now, but 
 just understand that youre getting a very dry cut of a series youve had so many great memories 
 from. For lack of a better statement, playing Banana Blitz is like dating a hot girls younger 
 sister: sure youll have fun in the begining, but youll end up wishing you had more.
  
  5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantom5800
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 1, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz goes back to the same style as the original games for the GC, basic 
 puzzles spread out across eight different worlds, but with the inclusion of Wii tilt controls.
 
  
  Monkey Ball fans will be excited to hear that Banana Blitz goes back to the older puzzle challenges 
 from the first Game Cube games, but they will never be ready for the steep difficulty of the game. 
 Super Monkey Ball Banana Blitz uses the Wii Remotes motion sensing in a different way than most 
 games; no longer can you freely move the monkey with an analog stick, but by tilting the remote 
 in any way, you will in turn, tilt the world and move the monkey in the way the world is tilted. 
 This sounds like a simple concept and looks like it should be easy with the games simple-looking 
 puzzles, but it is far from easy. The Wii's motion sensing over complicates the single player mode 
 to a point of extreme frustration, hopefully if they try making another Monkey Ball for the Wii 
 they remember that the analog controls for single player worked, at was more enjoyable.
  The minigames are one of the main reasons you get a Monkey Ball game to begin with, the minigames 
 are fun, quick, and great with multiple people. Sadly Banana Blitz's fifty minigames arn't all 
 very good, some are fun to play, some are classic games from previous installments, and others 
 are just plain boring. Monkey Target returns, but sadly this fun game from the past is again, over 
 complicated by adding Wii controls and has been made one of those things you only play once. But 
 with fifty minigames there should be nothing to complain about if there are a few that you don't 
 quite like.
  
  The graphics for Banana Blitz are definitely some of the Wiis best for launch. Using cell-shaded 
 graphics (the perfect style for the game) everything looks amazing, and can only be improved on 
 in the future.
  
  The sound in levels is easily recognizable for people that have played the past games of the series, 
 it is one of the things that keeps the game alive. The music throughout all of the game fits and 
 is something that has given it a recognizable place in gaming.
  
  Overall, Banana Blitz is a fun game if you have other people to play it with, rent it first and 
 if its something you can't stop playing then buy it when you get the chance. Banana Blitz is able 
 to build on the series greatly after Adventure tore it down, lets hope that when a sequel comes 
 that they fix a few things to make it easier though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 10outof10
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 30, 2006 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Monkeys! Monkeys! Monkeys! Super Monkey Ball Banana Blitz has some pretty nice improvements to 
 the Gamecube versions. First of all is te graphics. The Wiis graphics are not great but this game 
 has great graphics. But forget graphics lets talk about gameplay. There are 50 (thats a lot) Party 
 Games. With that many it makes Story Mode feel kinda tasteless. Story Mode is good. Thats all I 
 can say about it. All I can say about this game is that it is fun and worth buying if not renting. 
 Pluus its got Monkeys! The Monkeys sing on the Disc Channel Screen! I Love Monkeys! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamerhk
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 20, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Banana Blitz for the Wii is fun and enjoyable at first, and then seems to simply die out. After 
 a while, the cute cuddly monkeys and everything to do with them gets old, and it also gets you 
 annoyed and frusturated -- All of it just seems too repetitive. Although there are 50 different party 
 games to choose from, many of them have awkward controls, and others just weren't built for motion. 
 Banana Blitz is a great party game, though, and you should consider buying it. Here is a quick 
 overview of the game:
  
  The Good: 50 party games to choose from, a great multiplayer game
  
  The Bad: Terrible graphics, 
 some tedious gameplay and motion-sensing controls, repetitive moments throughout the game, game 
 gets old quickly
  
  Banana Blitz just might be worth getting, but keep in mind that you will probably will not be entertained 
 for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GunslingerMan
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 28, 2006 8:07 pm PT
Review:  After the recent crappy entries in the Monkey ball series I thought the series would never from 
 crappy land, but we all know never to underestamte sega ... Ok atleast for one title Virtua Fighter 
 . Anywho Banana blitz the newest entry in the monkey rolling series which is now aviailable on 
 the wii, and the entry is definetly good . It uses extremely good use of the wii mote, but most 
 of it's problems lie within the single-player and the mini-games The story in this game ... Well 
 there isn't any, but who cares . If you pick the single-player mode almost immediatly the mode 
 will feel very familiar too previews monkey ball games, both for the setting and how hard it is 
 although at first it's easy after the 4th world it gets very hard . The game uses the wiimote greatly 
 as you will title the mote to move your monkey and such it's fun until you realise that the single-player 
 ends alot way faster than other games in the monkey ball series such as Monkey ball 1, and 2 . 
 The multi-player offering here is giving in form of mini-games sadly there is no course multi-player 
 which would have been the highlight of the game . Now the games hypes you out by offering you a 
 total of 50 mini-games, but trust me when I say that more than 95% of the mini games found in Banana 
 blitz are pure crap . The feel like the were rushed . Alot of them are boring and uninspired, really 
 this is probably the main reason you bought the game, but at the end of the day it will be the 
 reason you stop playing it .
  
  Bana blitz has kind of addictive music, but thats not to say it's good . The music is arcadey which 
 can get annoying quickly it doesn't help either that the monkeys have nothing say . Bana Blitz 
 has a great design to it . It uses sort of the cel-shaded look to it which perfectly matches the 
 whole theme of the game, however the plain look of the game really bogs it down . Overall : It's 
 a good game . It's perfectly shows what the wii is capable of, but the shorter than usual single-player, 
 and terrible mini-games brings the game down alot, enough for it to make you loose interest in 
 it quicker than you should . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGnintendoFAN
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 27, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  + A new graphical presentation
  + 50 minigames
  + solid singleplayer that sticks too the roots of SMB 1 and 2
  + Intuitive controls and great 
 use of the wii-mote
  Cons:
  + Only a dozen or so great and lasting mini-games
  + The overall presentation is simple and lacking
  + The single player experiance is starting 
 to wear thin
  
  It wasnt too long ago before the release of Super Monkey Ball: Adventure took a new developer and 
 a new direction for the series which was downhill. Since then, Sega has took the game into their 
 own hands and developed a new entry which put it back on track.
  
  One of the first things you'll notice is that there is a whopping 50 minigames! yes 50, while that 
 is an incredible number only a handful are realy worth while. But there are some excellent games 
 such as monkey wars which is a quick first person shooter with a few guns, grenades tanks and UFO's! 
 There are games like basketball and space invaders and even the return of loveable classics such 
 as Monnkey Race and Monkey Target.
  
  But the real attraction of the game here is the main-game. The main-game still uses the same formula 
 from SMB 1 and SMB 2 and it still works here. But with a few new additions that keep it fresh and 
 lively. First off, there is the all new wii controls. At first this may seem unstable and at times 
 it can get over sensitive, but once you get used to it it works like a charm. just tilting the 
 controller to make the monkeys move feels soo good that you will never wont to go back to the joystick 
 again. Only complaint here is that you have to hold the controller longways, I would prefer it 
 sideways.
  
  It is because of this control scheme there has been a good few critics of how it can get hard to 
 controls and just slightly nudging it will affect the game. But it was like this with the previous 
 games and like I said it can be over sensitive and I did not like it at first but give it a chance 
 and its works wonderfully. Anyway another new addition is the abillity to jump. Of course this 
 doesen't sound like much, but you could not do this in past games and here it works wonderfully 
 givving it a completly fresh coat of paint and has allowed for some very interesting level designs.
 
  
  Infact, the level designs are perhaps what makes the main-game so great. They have been great in 
 past games and are even better here. Now your in control of all three axis and on some levels there 
 is now a 120 second time limit which means bigger and wackier levels. There are now interactable 
 objects, semi game charecters and speed boosts. Ontop of all that there is boss battles. While 
 some are not interesting and rather generic and simple, others are very interesting and difficult 
 allowing for some memorable moments. However, there is not a very co-operative camera in thease 
 stages so trying to get a good angle is h a r d.
  
  One of the things you will definatly notice is the complete graphical makeover. It is both good 
 and bad. It is good in the way that it gives the series a much needed cartoony style and apealing 
 to young children, and is simple and effective. But its bad because it is too simple and effective. 
 Some people can easily overlook this but I cant. The graphics will hardly prove difficulty for 
 the wii and could easily be seen on a gamecube or even an early PS2 game. The textures are very 
 simple and there isnt the most polygons in this world. However an upside is some very crisp visuals 
 and wonderful particle effects.
  
  The game is filled with overjoy music. It is cheery and happy, tough can get on your nerves. There 
 is a few sound effects here and there, but nothing too impresive. Just average stuff.
  
  The real question is is this game realy worth it? I'd say yes. Definatly. However it all realy 
 depends on who you are. Some people say it was a mistake, but others say it was a great idea. It 
 realy depends on weather you are looking for a main game that sticks to the roots of SMB 1 and 
 2 with a control scheme that takes time to get used too or if your looking for some solid mini 
 games and 50 overall which includes arcades such as space invaders and SMB classics. But some of 
 you will have alot of de ja vu for the minigames and its realy more of the same with simple additions 
 thrown in.
  
  If you love the SMB series, then this is the game for you, however there are drawbacks with a lackluster 
 presentation and only a handful of worth games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RKRM
Rating: 1.8
Date: Dec 27, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  I got this game to play with my wife and my kids. It is almost unplayable. The controls are useless 
 non-working and horrible. In particular ring toss and darts. Just getting to the point where you 
 can see your cursor on screen is a miracle. If it was my only Wii game I would blame the Wii as 
 being crap. But fortunately I also have Wii Sports, Trauma Second Opinion and Zelda to name a few 
 that prove the Wii control scheme can and does work actually quite well. MonkeyBall is a worhtless 
 oile of crap avoid it at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joemontana
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 26, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  nice game, but the funky controls can be a pain and make it a bit harder though it's meant to be 
 like that. music also is very sega style, reminds me the sonic series very much.
  it looks a bit childish, but it's not sooo silly, and the hard parts make it such an effort to 
 beat. it has many positive points, but it is definitively not a classic game. i would recomend 
 to rent and try, if it feels like, buy it, otherwise you're wasting money. nice game, but the funky 
 controls can be a pain and make it a bit harder though it's meant to be like that. music also is 
 very sega style, reminds me the sonic series very much.
  it looks a bit childish, but it's not sooo silly, and the hard parts make it such an effort to 
 beat. it has many positive points, but it is definitively not a classic game. i would recomend 
 to rent and try, if it feels like, buy it, otherwise you're wasting money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cross_mr
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 25, 2006 11:39 pm PT
Review:  I'll start by saying I haven't played the single-player part of the game. It was purchased with 
 the 50 mini-games in mind. I'm very big on the multi-player games and with a decent score and 50 
 games listed, I figured it would be a sure hit. However once I started playing it, I realized that 
 the mini-game aspect was very poorly done. Quality varies greatly between games with some being 
 fun, and others being unplayable messes. The games themselves all have great concepts, but the 
 controls are poor. In some games they are extremely sensitive, more sensitive than they should 
 be and in other games they're completely unresponsive. Disc Golf is a good example. Good looking 
 game, seems like fun to play. However its easy for your disc to land behind an object and necessitate 
 you chipping out from behind the object with a very short shot. The game doesn't seem to respond 
 to a short throw at all. Giving it enough power to even register as a toss frequently sends the 
 disc off the edge if there are gaps in the hole you're on. This would require you to try some sort 
 of twisted bank shot to bounce it off another object and hope it lands clear for you to toss it 
 towards the hole again.
  
  Many other games, at least 50% of the games included seem to suffer from this poor control issue. 
 There are enough games that are ruined by this that it taints the entire product. A couple could 
 be forgiven were the rest solid, but such a large number of ruined games leaves a gamer feeling 
 ripped off.
  
  It might be nice if they fixed this game, and allowed people to send in and exchange for the new 
 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeanGS
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  Super Monkey Ball Banana Blitz is a good Wii game, but after a while gets repetitive unless you 
 are playing multiplayer. The game is ok single player, where you just tilt the Wii Remote to make 
 the monkey roll to the finish without falling off. The bosses are sometimes frustrating. On the 
 good side there are over 50 mini games that are fun to play. After playing each mini game for awhile, 
 they end up getting a little boring. If youre playing multiplayer its very fun to play all of 
 those mini games with a friend. The graphics arent that good, but they are colorful. Hearing the 
 monkeys talk is sometimes annoying but its not the end of the world. Buy Super Monkey Ball Banana 
 Blitz if you expect to play this type of game with someone else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arrow_Raider
Rating: 3.8
Date: Dec 22, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I don't understand why the majority of players of this game rated it so highly. I had never played 
 a monkey ball series game before this one. I picked it up because the review on gamespot portrayed 
 it as an alright game and I needed something to play along with Zelda.
  
  Game modes:
  Main game mode is difficult, short, boring, redundant, and pointless.
  Most mini-games last no 
 longer than 30 seconds and don't hold your attention for much longer than that.
  
  Control:
  The main problem with the main game mode is the control. The control feels unresponsive, 
 yet overly sensitive. That is, there is a large threshold where you can move the remote and nothing 
 will happen in the game but then once you pass a fine point, the game overreacts to what you intended 
 to do. This makes turning really hard to do because you either don't turn hardly at all, or turn 
 too much - running off the edge in both situations.
  
  Graphics:
  I thought the graphics were ok. I can see how some people would have liked them to be more detailed, 
 but I think they fit in with the style of the game alright.
  
  Sound:
  The music is good. The sound is not. The noises the monkeys make are annoying and the announcer 
 is highly obnoxious.
  
  Value:
  Save your cash. Don't buy or rent this game. You can get the same experience from free flash games 
 around the internet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 21, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz is a game that fans of the series will absolutely love, 
 regardless of any issues. However, let it be known that the game does have issues, and many of 
 them. First, I will start with the story mode. Well, there really isn't a story , but either way 
 the experience is pretty enjoyable. Most of the worlds are very creative and each have their own 
 theme, even if most of them are fairly predictable. This game, unlike some of the more recent entries 
 to the series, goes back to the traditional play seen in the original Gamecube game. Instead of 
 there being a story, there are eight themed worlds each with eight levels that you will roll around 
 in and collect bananas. While the key gameplay elements themselves work great, some other parts.... 
 not so much. For example, the controls for moving really can create a challenge for some of you, 
 and for others it will feel natural. To move around your monkey, you tilt the Wii remote, and, 
 assumably, you are moving or tilting the stage itself and not the character. Let me clarify something, 
 these controls do work, but they don't work as well as you would like them to. In certain parts 
 of the game I actually thought to myself when I got stuck at a stage Would I be able to do this 
 stage with an analog stick instead? , and a majority of the time I thought yes. After awhile you 
 begin to realize that most of the challenges aren't with the stages, because on any other platform 
 these stages would be cake, but the controls create a new challenge in the game. I can't necessarily 
 say this is a bad thing for some of you, but for others it gets extremely frustrating. I can say 
 though, that most of the boss fights are reasonably creative and fun to play through.
  As for the minigames, there are tons of them.... fifty of them in fact. The only problem is that 
 at least thirty of them are utter crap. Some of them are horribly copied versions of Wii Sports 
 boxing and baseball, and others are just pointless. For example, in one game your objective was 
 to keep a ball up in the air using a bat...... chances are you get bored about 3 seconds into the 
 minigame. An example of a good minigame though is the tossing minigame in which you swing the Wii 
 remote like a lasso and try to throw a chain and ball as far as you can. It really is hit or miss 
 with the minigames.
  
  Graphics: The new cel-shaded look works very well with the series, and while there isn't too much 
 to complain about some of the areas just look kind of dull. In some ways, the developers could 
 have gotten more creative with the environment designs, and the graphics look good but definitely 
 not something you couldn't find on the Gamecube already in terms of visuals. I do think that most 
 of you will enjoy the art style change though. The game is colorful and bright, just like the obvious 
 mood of the game.
  
  Sound: Most of the audio in the game is pretty good. It would have been nice if they would have 
 added more than just one tune for each world... but since most of the music is pretty good that 
 can be overlooked. However, I would complain that from what I can see most of the minigame music 
 is the same. The developers did a good job using the speaker though, because the support exists 
 but it isn't over used, which is good considering too much use of the speaker is just annoying.
 
  
  Value: With fifty minigames you would think this game would have great replay value.... but to 
 be honest I would take any Mario Party game over this game's minigames anyday. Most of the uses 
 of the Wii remote in the minigames feel tacked on and unnecessary. I think developers need to learn 
 that you don't need to use the Wii remote for everything in the game, sometimes things really do 
 just work better with a plain old button and analog stick. Otherwise though, there are at least 
 a few good minigames and the single player mode might last you a few hours depending on how challenging 
 you find the game. If you are interested in a pure fun game to go along with your new Wii console, 
 then perhaps you should look into purchasing Super Monkey Ball Banana Blitz. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zerostatic0
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 29, 2007 9:31 pm PT
Review:  I got Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz at launch with my Wii. It has been a very solid title and 
 I am glad I decided to get this game at launch. GRAPHICS: Nice clean colorful graphics. Animation 
 is good, and character and art design is varied and good as well. There's a couple of jaggies here 
 and there and the textures could have been alittle more impressive. SOUND: Great music and overall 
 sound quality in the game. i could find no faults with the catchy tunes and arcade like audio. 
 GAMEPLAY: The gameplay in the single player mode has a learning curve but it is very addictive. 
 It really reminded of playing NES and SNES games back in the day, in that some parts were hard 
 but you kept on wanting to beat it and when you finally do you'll be happy as heck. The minigames 
 are a great addition and much welcomed considering that playing with people is what the Wii is 
 best at. Some of the minigames are hard to control but everyone has their favorites. There is a 
 good couple of dozen minigames that I like. I even play this on my own sometimes, when I get up 
 earlier and have 20-30 minutes to spare, it's fun to try and beat your old high scoresVALUE: Single 
 player is alittle short, but this is very much one of those games where you want to beat your old 
 scores or times. The minigames make this a game that you will probably want to always keep around, 
 particularly when you are showing off your Wii to someone who is not familar with it. Overall, 
 the value for this game compared to most games is above average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harpua42
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 19, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  The one player/main game is pretty fun. It shows off the tilt-sensing aspect of the Wiimote very 
 well. The mazes are very difficult to navigate with this type of control, however. I bought this 
 game for the tons of multi-play party games though. And I would say that at least 1/4 of them are 
 unplayable due to shoddy Wiimote programming. Another big beef I have is that they make you go 
 through the entire game selection, startup instructions, etc. EVERY time you want to try again. 
 It's gruelling at times. Music is obnoxious. I should have gottne RayMan.
  
  And thats all I have to say about that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afrodiziac
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 19, 2006 12:06 am PT
Review:  After having just got sick of the Red Steel controls after playing it 5 or 6 times, I thought taking 
 it back and getting a fun game to forget it. Unfortunately, Super Monkey Ball Banana Blitz is the 
 exact opposite of a fun game.
  
  I'll start with the minigames. What I thought to be the most fun addition to this game turned out 
 to be the worst. Bad controls and bad games generally make the value of the minigames inconsistent. 
 Monkey Wars was the best by far, while other games fell behind. Far behind. you'd think with a 
 new control scheme/controller, the makers would have made the games pick up and play, rather than 
 play the games for around 2 minutes before getting pissed off and not knowing what to do with no 
 way to return the minigame screen other than going all the way out of the game then back in. JUST, 
 GOD! They could have at least made it able to pause in minigames. It still wouldn't have made them 
 better.
  
  Onto the main game. the controls are so frustrating GAH! i spent about an hour trying to pass one 
 level with many deaths and yelling at the wii-mote. the jump doesn't help at all either. unless 
 you want to fall off the edge.
  
  so all in all, the minigames aren't good and the controls suck. i wouldn't buy it if I were you. 
 Do yourself a favour and invest in Twilight Princess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 18, 2006 5:01 am PT
Review:  Like Wii Sports, Super Monkey Ball feels like an attempt to try out many different interactions 
 with the Wii's unique controllers. Again, in common with Wii Sports, it is hit and miss, but at 
 least there are more games to play: 51 if you include the core Monkey Ball game!
  
  The traditional Monkey Ball game remains largely unchanged from Monkey Ball 2 on the Gamecube. 
 The addition of a Jump feature does add an extra element to the gameplay, which is as fun and frustrating 
 as ever. You have additional characters to choose from this time and each level now features a 
 Boss character to beat. The translation to motion sensing works really well, and the game can be 
 picked up very easily but veterans and novices alike.
  
  The main feature, however, of Banana Blitz is the inclusion of 50 mini-games that all make use 
 of the new motion sensing controllers (both remote and nunchuck) . On the whole these games are 
 fun and easy to play, ranging from simple race games to throwing and flying. Lots of the original 
 mini-games have made their way across from the Gamecube and DS including Bowling (which is as good 
 as Wii Sports) , Target and Wars.
  
  The mini-games are not without their problems. A couple of the mini-games are very difficult to 
 master or feature controls that don't work correctly. Many of the mini-games also feature unnecessary 
 controls: for instance aiming without a cross hair or controlling angle and direction by pointing 
 rather than the simpler nunchuck thumb-stick or D-pad. It is good that the developers want to try 
 alternative control methods, but they should really focus implementing these where it adds to the 
 control not take it away. Often the mini-games feel wrong because the developers didn't know where 
 to stop.
  
  Graphically Banana Blitz is an improvement on the Gamecube originals and looks lush and colourful. 
 The monkeys and balls are nicely animated with some nice variation in textures and backgrounds.
 
  
  The music in Banana Blitz get annoying very quickly, as do some of the sound effects, but it wouldn't 
 be Monkey Ball without them.
  
  There is enough here to justify the price of the game. The classic Monkey Ball is fun and challenging, 
 whilst 50 mini-games is a good haul indeed. You'll get the most value from Banana Blitz when you 
 have a few friends around have some beer or wine to get the party play going.
  
  In Summary, Super Monkey Ball Banana Blitz is a solid version of Super Monkey Ball with some nice 
 additions, loads of mad mini-games and lots of fun. It is only let down by the use of some unnecessary 
 controls and a couple of weak and difficult mini-games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STongue
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 15, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  The moment you start Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz, you get a very very energetic start screen 
 and menus. This is a nice little joyous welcome to a game.
  
  First, let's start with the single player mode. Obviously, you take control of the world and try 
 to get your monkey-in-a-ball to the opposite end of the course within the time limit. The beginning 
 levels are very simple. As your progress, though, they can become very tough. The toughness can 
 really turn you away if you are someone who doesn't want to devote time to beating the single player 
 mode.
  
  The Party Games in this game are great. From Monkey Boxing to Monkey Wars, you've got a wide variety 
 of 50 minigames to choose from. You can spend a lot of time and share a lot of laughs in this mode. 
 Games like Red Light, Green Light, and Darts are fun. Some games, like Bowling, are not. It depends 
 on your ability to learn the many controls. I had a blast playing this mode, and I think everyone 
 else will too.
  
  The graphics for SMBBB are awesome. The like-cell shaded graphics of this game are great. Like 
 others have said, it just seems like the series was made to be in the cell-shaded region. A definite 
 A+ on my list for the graphics.
  
  Thanks for reading my review, and check out my others too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_hookshot
Rating: 3.7
Date: Dec 13, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  Well, when i got SMB: BB i thought it would be fun. Wrong! The levels are poorly designed and you 
 might spend hours on a level. And hand eye coordination isnt the problem. Horrid controls are. 
 The minigames are fun, but get old. The boss levels are moronicly retarded and it drives you crazy.
 
  I know this is a little harsh, but its true. I might never ever buy another SMB game ever. Im 
 serious. I AM SERIOUS. Buy something else because this game will have you killing the wii. Minigames 
 dont make the game. The storyline does. But i liked the minigames. they were pretty Ok. but thats 
 all i like about the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilsmurfaroonie
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 12, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz is a puzzle-type game for the Wii. It seems to have been made as 
 a party mode game for the Wii instead of the traditional puzzles. This game has around 100 puzzle 
 levels for the main game and 50, yes, 50 mini-games. For anyone who has enjoys previous monkey 
 ball games, not including Super Monkey Ball Adventure, or anyone who is looking for a nice little 
 laid back game with some interesting controls for a puzzle game.
  
  Gameplay: 8
  First off, this game uses the Wii-mote as the controller (obviously) . Secondly, the controller 
 is used in a couple ways to control your monkey/ball: tilt the controller to move forwards, back 
 to move back, and roll it side to side to turn, and the A button to jump.
  
  In story mode, you have at first 8 worlds with bonus worlds to unlock after achieving certain goals. 
 This will give you around 100 levels depending on what you wish to complete. Each of the levels 
 have their own, distinct, uniqueness about them. They are all quite fun, frustrating at times, 
 but still fun. The bossfights are lackluster as they are amazingly simple to complete. Every now 
 and then you will come across a boss that is a little bit tough, but after your first try you get 
 the hang of things and beat it easily.
  
  One other thing about this game is that it seems to have been made for a party game. I do like 
 the fact that there are so many minigames, but this is also disappointing. Many of the games are 
 good, but a lot of the games just seem thrown together and shoved in when they aren't all that 
 great. I would say that there are about 25 - 30 good mini-games, and the others range from mediocre 
 to bad. I only wish that instead of including some of the horrible mini-games, they would've included 
 more levels in single player mode (wish are amazing) and/or added a multiplayer option to these 
 levels.
  
  Graphics: 8
  Despite the kiddy appearance, the graphics are surprisingly good. There are very few sharp edge 
 or things that look out of place. In my opinion, the graphics were designed this way to give a 
 simplistic and relaxing feel to the game.
  
  Sound: 8
  Sound in this game is very good. While it is annoying at times, it never lags, or sounds choppy 
 in any way, shape, or form. The music is nice, the menu effects are good, even the monkey bouncing 
 around while you are playing sounds good! The only bad part is that after a little while, these 
 sounds can't get on your nerves a tad bit.
  
  Value: 10
  The replay value of this game is amazing! As I mentioned before, there are tons of mini-games to 
 keep you or a friend entertained. Also, the ability to save your replays is a very nice feature 
 as well. Going back through story mode looking through the levels to find shortcuts is also fun 
 to do as the game was designed in such a way so you can do just that. In fact, on one of the early 
 levels I found myself practicing that level over and over again just to find different places to 
 bounce off for the fastest way possible (As it turns out my first few shortcuts were about 10 seconds 
 each, once I got better at that level I was getting about 3 seconds each time.) .
  
  Final Reccomendation:
  I bet you, please, do not be turned away from this game because of how 
 silly it looks. It is truly a very excellent game that I would reccomend anyone to play. I suggest 
 that if you want this game enough, rent it first, then buy it. If it just sounds like something 
 that will get old after a little while, just rent it and be done with it.
  
  Hope that helps! If you have any questions or comments please feel free to PM me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_elements600
Rating: 6.1
Date: Dec 11, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  When I heared that there was a new Super Monkey ball game coming out for the Wii I nearly wet myself 
 with excitement. I had enjoyed Super Monkey Ball 1 and to a much further extent SMB 2 so much, 
 I couldn't wait to see what this game had to offer.
  
  Then, my hopes turned down a bit. I could see the Sega logo on the box, but no sign of the Amusement 
 Vision logo seen on the previous two. This was worrying. Why was it not there? Did they decide, 
 after the abysmal Super Monkey Ball Adventure that they were no longer interested in the series? 
 Or did Sega, for reasons that I cannot see at all, just not bother to ask them? If this was the 
 case, baaaad move Sega, bad move indeed. If AV had of done this game, it would have ben one hell 
 of a masterpiece, on par with or even above the quality os Super Monkey Ball 2.
  
  The story mode does play very nicely though, and although shorter than in previous games, theres 
 good use of the motion sensitive control and it's surprisingly easy to learn and master.
  
  The multiplayer mode is a little different however. There are 50 minigames, far superior to the 
 8 found in SMB 2. All these feature motion snsitive controls, and some even use the nunchuck which 
 is even better. Some of these minigames play extremely fluidly and are simple in theory, and when 
 you play them, turn out to be different and this adds an element of fun. And then of course, as 
 there are 50 minigames, some don't play well at all and are more user un-friendly than the sat 
 nav in your car.
  
  So then, although it's good to show what the Wii can do with it's motion sensitive control, it 
 does, in places, lack the true legendaryness that is Super Monkey Ball. It seems it was so close 
 to making an amazing game in a great series, but didn't quite capture the spark. Play it round 
 a friend's house to see what it's like if you're a newcomer to the series and if you're a veteran, 
 rent it before you buy it and decide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenzo287
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 11, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  When I first saw my sister's friend bring over Super Monkey Ball 2 on the GameCube I'll admit I 
 laughed at how dumb the game was. Then I played the game and found out it was really fun. Fast 
 forward several years and a new generation of consoles and I decided to buy my first Monkey Ball 
 game.
  
  First thing is the gameplay. In the main game you tilt the remote to move the stage around and 
 then when need be you tap the A button to fling your Monkey Ball up in the air. There is a total 
 of 6 characters, two of which are brand new additions to the Monkey Ball games. The story, well 
 I guess something stole some golden bananas or something, the story is not what you're playing 
 Monkey Ball for so let's just skip it. But one of the coolest features to the game are the new 
 boss battles. The are challenging and fun at the same time.
  
  The mini-games are fun, crazy, and sometimes clunky. While most of the 50 mini-games work like 
 a charm, several of them don't stand up very well. One in praticular, Monkey Bowling, is severely 
 disappointing due to the lack of crazy lanes we came to know in previous installments. And while 
 mini-games are fine and dandy, there is no mode that allows you to play the regular style of game 
 with more than one player. A HUGE disappointment.
  
  The graphics in the game are near flawless, not perfect mind you, but near flawless, and the mild 
 cel shading brings a feel like you were coloring a book in elementary school, unaware of what was 
 happening around you. Then you realize the timer is running out of time and I better get going. 
 The only time there are some mistakes are when you see the insides of the boss. But these mild 
 graphical glitches occur in many many many many games.
  
  The sound in the game is wonderful. All the music tracks fit the theme of the stage you're on perfectly. 
 Even the Wiimote speaker is used well in most of the mini games. The only complaint could be the 
 lack of use of the wiimote speaker in places that it would make perfect sense to use it.
  
  Replay value in the game is greatly enhanced by the multi-player alone, but the single player mode 
 will have you replaying some of the more fun levels over and over again. Also you may fallout and 
 lose many many times throughout the game, but while it is frustrating it is also not like GAHHHH 
 I CAN'T PLAY THIS ANYMORE it's more of a haha let's try that again thing that'll keep you playing 
 for hours on end.
  
  All in all this game is a fun addition to any Wii owner's collection and is more than enough to 
 hold you off until the next great epic game comes out. This titles is worth the next-gen price 
 tag of 60 dollars but thanks to the smart guys at Nintendo you will only be required to cough up 
 50 for it. And it's worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: topgun53
Rating: 5.7
Date: Dec 10, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  Main game is ok, nothing special. The mini games suck, I had more fun with monkey bowling on the 
 gamecube then I had with all the mini games on this version. I have not really got to play them 
 with anyone so maybe that is messing up my judgement, but I dont think so. The controls suck bad, 
 they feel broken in the mini games. I am wondering how they ranked this the third best game on 
 the Wii. The main game is kinda fun using the wii mote. You are turning your wrist so much it starts 
 to hurt a little afterwards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ravenheimer
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 9, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  I was initially excited to hear about a Monkey Ball game on, or near, Wii release day. Certain 
 things from the others in the series including controls anyone can learn in a matter of seconds, 
 having to find that one 'trick' within a level to make it possible to complete, the fun for everyone 
 turn-taking multiplayer and the inability to jump made it a winner in my book. None of the aforementioned 
 were included in the installment on Wii.
  
  The controls can be compared to the Othello saying: A minute to learn, a lifetime to master. Anyone 
 can pick up the wii remote and tilt the level Marble Madness style to get this silly monkey inside 
 of a ball to the end... when the level is completely straight and has walls surrounding it. In 
 the short time it takes you to get to the levels in single player mode that do not include the 
 walls, you have yet to master controlling it. (on a side note, the Monkey Ball games are supposed 
 to give the player the illusion that you are moving the level, not the monkey.)
  
  Throughout the beginning levels, messages appear as a tutorial on how to play. When the message 
 telling me to Press the A-Button to jump! appeared, I almost cried. Okay, it opens up new possibilities 
 for gameplay, but those new possibilities are not the reason i play Monkey Ball. In my opinion, 
 jumping was the first way they ruined the game.
  
  If a level looks hard... It's gonna he hard. If it looks next to impossible, that's how hard the 
 level will be. You will /never/ find any switches to slow down the moving platforms or stop them 
 in their place. No more turning around to hit the slow button.
  
  On to the multiplayer... poor poor multiplayer. Remember occasionally boxing eachother in Super 
 Monkey Ball 2? Or shooting up baddies House oif the Dead style? They took these mini-games that 
 i would rarely play when i turned it on to play multiplayer, and made the mini games the /entire/ 
 multiplayer. You can no longer choose to go through 10, 30, or 50 levels from the single player 
 game. All you can do is play the mini games that use the same controls that seem to only work some 
 of the time.
  
  If you are going to buy this game, or have yet to play it, be prepared to hear the announcer say 
 the same thing over and over again.
  READY? GO! 
  FALL-OUT! 
  CONTINUE? 
  It probably took me a couple hundred tries to beat level 7-5.
  
  The music is just plain awesome. 
 Quite a step up from the previous installments in the series, in my opinion. Seems that Sega has 
 some trouble getting their good soundtracks available, though. I remember wanting the soundtrack 
 to other Sega games, and never finding them. I hope they think differently with this game, because 
 I can see myself playing through it again just to hear the tunes and would rather not have to go 
 through that pain to hear good music.
  
  Overall, I had fun with the game, i guess. And maybe it was worth the price tag... Not sure yet. 
 Haven't put it in my Wii again yet. I bought it for the multiplayer and was ultimately let down. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsguy464646
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 8, 2006 7:49 am PT
Review:  Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz is an incredibly fun game with so much to do. No matter what mood 
 you're in, this game will have a game that you'll like. I actually heavily dislike the idea to 
 put bosses in. It's not the pure puzzle soul anymore. I also could've hoped for more levels on 
 the higher end of difficulty. Once you get good enough all the worlds seem easy. It's not like 
 sweet Super Monkey Ball 2 on GCN. There, I had an immense challenge in the master and master extra 
 levels that kept me occupied for months. Here, it's already almost over for me. In short, I love 
 the party games, but the main game is really short. It's a really good game, however. I recommend 
 this to anyone who likes puzzle games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dubsta
Rating: 1.8
Date: Dec 8, 2006 4:01 am PT
Review:  Hard to controll, boring worlds and poor graphics for this day and age and no fun at all. Anyone 
 could finnish it in ten minutes crappy crappy bosses : ( not happy jan! Boring characters a bad 
 idea for a game not even worth hiring it out. Bought it because this website gave it a fairly good 
 rating but I guess its all lies and ooh were gonna advertise this crappy game, well Im going back 
 to the store and trading it for something better!
  
  Kids wouldnt even like this game the colours cant even make up for its crappiness! The only thing 
 remotely exiting is the songs why oh why did I buy this game??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taylorjazzager
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 7, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is top notch for the Wii, probably one of the best of the early releases. The possibilities 
 are endless in this very enjoyable, cute, and incredibly fun Monkey Ball Title.
  
  Graphics are what you would expect from a standard monkey ball, but the cell shading is new and 
 is nice looking.
  
  This game's single-player mode offers a fun, challenging (at times) , and somewhat short adventure 
 when you do what the monkeys do best, steer yourself to the goal and collect as many bananas on 
 the way. The controls for this mode are well taken care of. instead of using a standard joystick 
 to roll your monkey, you tilt the controller in the direction you want to go, which can be tedious 
 at times, but all around is a fun experience.
  
  The addition that sets banana blitz apart from any monkey ball is of course the mini-games. There 
 are fifty games and very few of them are unenjoyable. Whether you are playing a classic game of 
 red light green light, or something forlorn like alien attack, the mini-games can make for hours 
 and hours of fun with a couple friends.
  
  Nintendo definately put out a fun game with this Monkey Ball title, it's not an outstanding graphical 
 achievement by any means, but is a great innovative game that is fun for all ages and several people. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliteDForce
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 6, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  A challenging and quirky game thats fun and addictive. However its to short and has terrible multiplayer. 
 First off, this game is challenging yes, but not near as hard as many reviews may lead you to belive. 
 I personally found it to easy and to short. Its tilt mechanics work perfectly with the Wii and 
 its easy to pick up and play.
  
  The menus lack polish and can sometimes be quite annoying and the multiplayer games are for the 
 most part, all boring and cheap cash in on the Wiis capabilities. However all in all this game 
 manages to be one small step ahead of its competitors in many levels. That said, its obviously 
 rushed and lacks a certain degree of polish. Gameplay 9 - Tilt and get from point a to point b 
 in levels that range from ridiculously easy to outrageously challenging. The highest point of this 
 game by far in its unrefined and unpolished state.
  
  Graphics 7 - Crisp and cartoony, with some wonderful and creative environments and backgrounds. 
 Its a simple and satisfying feel the blends perfectly for what monkey ball set out to do.
  
  Sound 4 - One soundtrack per level, most of which have a nag for annoying most people. Its 
 a strangely obnoxious game as by default its louder than any other wii game i have. The sound effects 
 are flat and the game fails in this category.
  
  Overall - 7.9
  This game is accessible and fun, and if you can ignore some of its shortcomings you have a solid 
 10+ hour adventure on your hands that you may revisit and master the levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ericgt2
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 6, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  I was highly interested in this game with all of the hype, but after playing for several hours 
 it's just OK. They could have provided a better soundtrack to the game. Each world loops the same 
 song throughout the 8 levels per world. I ended up turning down the volume so I didn't go insane.
 
  
  The game play is probably the best aspect of this game. Offering a unique style of twisting and 
 tilting the Wii remote.
  
  It doesn't take very long to get through the single player mode which is too bad. The 50 mini-games 
 are entertaining, but whomever you play against needs to master the controls before you can engage 
 into some serious competition.
  
  It's a decent launch title, but it could have been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicphoto
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 29, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Super Monkey ball started on the Gamecube with a puzzle platformer that consisted of rolling the 
 monkeys to the goal going through many obstacles and has you progress thinks get more and more 
 challenging. It was a great hit and expanded consoles to the Xbox and PS2. Later however arrived 
 Super Monkey Ball Adventure that brought a storyline that for many didnt make sense and ruined 
 down the original and fun gameplay of the last 2 titles. Luckily Sega notice the failure on adventure 
 and so brings back Super Monkey Ball to his normal roots of gameplay to the Wii with a more cartoon 
 look but does the Wii controller makes thing unique or does it feel already dated? Keep on reading 
 and find out.
  
  For those that dont know well how monkey ball plays well its pretty simple. You must roll a monkey 
 in a ball through 3-d maze levels. You dont actually control the balls; instead you are tilting 
 around the maze so the ball moves to the direction you want. Well actually the player will be tilting 
 the controller to any direction to move the maze. In Banana Blitz however they add it a new welcome 
 feature, jumping with the A button. The jumping makes things a bit easier before but you still 
 need to know when you should use it and when you must not. The objective of the game is to reach 
 the goal of each stage and then proceed to the next stage. Has mentioned before the stages will 
 get more challenging has you progress.
  
  Another new feature is when you finish all the mazes on that world you will confront with a big 
 boss. Bosses are pretty easy since in the beginning they tell you what his weak point is so you 
 can attack it. Yet it suffers some camera issues because you fight him on a circle form floor and 
 the camera can get really crazy still it doesnt make it impossible to play. Thats the main game 
 that features 8 worlds each of them with 10 mazes. Plus there are 2 more unlockable worlds that 
 make a total of 100 mazes. There is not a big amount of characters but at least they added a few 
 more characters then previous games.
  
  Many get scare at the game when they say its really challenging but thats in just half of the 
 game later that it may seem impossible and still this game the way you lose and fall can sometimes 
 make you feel dumb and make you laugh at yourself. The mazes also feature a pair of shortcuts just 
 harder then the normal path. You can speed off ledges, bounce down pathways, etc. A great new feature 
 is being able to save a replay video so any crazy stunt you did you can simply save it so you can 
 see it has many times you like or show it to youre friends.
  
  But the game doesnt only feature a main game; it also has 50 minigames to play with. Most of them 
 are pretty original using the controller in many different ways and even some of them require the 
 nunchuk controller. Not all of them are really deep some are just putted in just to be there but 
 others truly bring some really great ideas with the Wii remote. For example one of the minigames 
 has a monkey counting on a tree and you have to run to him by making the movement of running but 
 when he looks again to the players you must stop moving or else you will have to start over. Yet 
 there is also a pair of simple minigames that are pretty boring for example landing a spaceship 
 is way too short and copies monkey target which is a minigames from the first 2 games that returns 
 that consisted of flying through the waterways and land on target points. Other simple minigames 
 like shooting meteors have you targeting similar to using a bow on Zelda TP. Hitting with hammers 
 up, down, left and right. Using a spaceship to destroy enemies around was one the most hard because 
 the combination with Wii remote and nunchuk controller was pretty confusing. The golf was pretty 
 unresponsive and strange.
  
  In total they are many minigames but only a few of them truly shine. Developers spent too much 
 time on these minigames that they could have make more puzzles to the main game instead that is 
 more fun. Yet these minigames also show that a Mario party style of game for the monkey ball series 
 doesnt sound to be a bad idea they just need to make the minigames more deep. The main game isnt 
 a big difference from the first monkey ball games but the Wii remote feeling is different and more 
 fun plus other additions like jumping and bosses also keep things fresh.
  
  On the visuals the game has gotten quite a change. Before it was more of a realistic touch and 
 suddenly they change it to a more cartoonish look that some would criticize because they were expecting 
 an even more real look with the Wiis power over the Gamecube. However the look is actually really 
 great and makes it feel like the series was meant to be done in this style. The graphics are clean, 
 sparkly, crisp textures and smooth particle effects. The visuals like this give more energy to 
 the game with a much more colorful style then before. Still the graphics can still be considered 
 very simple and might not be appreciated by many. Possibly some may consider them really kiddy 
 but is actually more stylish and more energetic.
  
  When it comes to the soundtrack Banana Blitz has possibly the best from the entire series. The 
 tunes are really danceable and catchy and give you a lot of energy when playing the game. You might 
 sometimes find yourself dancing instead of looking at the course before you start. For sound effects 
 well there is not much special to say, but all of them fit properly to each action. Although one 
 sound effect that can annoy is the time limit when you are running out of time it can give you 
 stress and make you fail more easily the maze. But thats basically part of the challenge so it 
 really is meant to be there. There really isnt voiceovers just hear monkeys in a game that it 
 doesnt sound annoying. Unlike a dungeon with monkeys in another great Wii launch title Zelda Twilight 
 Princess.
  
  The main game itself may not sound really long with 100 mazes but they can take quite a lot of 
 time because not every maze is a piece of cake. This is a game in which the challenge makes things 
 longer and more fun. Plus there is also 50 minigames that even tough not many are great they can 
 all still be a lot of fun when playing with 2 or 4 players to bring some serious competition. Banana 
 Blitz will seriously last you a month or more.
  
  Overall Super Monkey Ball Banana Blitz brings back the great gameplay from the first 2 Gamecube 
 titles with new controls that make it even more fun. The new graphics work really well and the 
 soundtrack is the best from the series. If you have friends or family to play with you need to 
 pick up this game right now. If you enjoyed the Gamecube titles (excluding super monkey ball adventure) 
 you need to get this game because its the steps back to the right direction. Well basically Super 
 Monkey Ball Banana Blitz is a must pick up for Wii owners because is definitely one of the best 
 launch titles and personally is my favorite Super Monkey Ball game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaceTheShado
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 3, 2006 2:10 am PT
Review:  The reason I would have to pick this game up is for the multiplayer, single player just doesnt 
 have enough fun in it to me, multi-play is great and thats what this game is most fun doing, on 
 the side towards playing single player though, is not to bad, its still entertaining and still 
 has some value in it, compared to the other monkeyballs, this is by far the best one, and should 
 be givin the credit in that view. Overall this game is a great game to buy to play with your friends, 
 and will have you playing several of the minigames over and over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theycallmeleon
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz is a GREAT party game for 2+ players. Sometimes the controller 
 won't do what you want it to do, especially if you're going down a slope and want to slow down... becauseit 
 turns you around and all you can do is pray to not fall off. Not to mention this is the first SMB 
 game I have purchased. But on another note, this game is a joy to anyone who actually likes this 
 Sega classic brought to the Wii. I'm short tempered when it comes to games like these, since I 
 broke my strap on the Wiimote (This was in the Main Game) . Some like most of the level past world 
 4 get harder you miht find yourself in a type of dilemna unless you're just 'God' at this game. 
 This is a decent game for everyone to play. It won't let you down... oh, and FYI.... READ THE DIRECTIONS 
 ON THE MINI GAMES.... if you don't. Good luck. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Javrixx
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 1, 2006 9:32 am PT
Review:  I traded Red Steel for this game. Wish I would have gotten Raving Rabbids or Trauma Center instead...
 
  
  I've played every Monkey Ball before. I like both the single player and multiplayer portions of 
 the game.
  
  Singleplayer is fun at first. The controls only take a few minutes to get used to for us old school 
 MB fans. New comers will take probably 30 minutes or so adjusting to the concept. What I didn't 
 like about singleplayer the most was the bosses. They're more annoying then fun. This game is all 
 about technique, and the boss fights aren't. The biggest problem I have with them is the camera 
 doesn't center on you during the boss fights, it centers on the boss or the primary objective at 
 the current time. Switching to this causes problems. It's hard to move at times and you can't see 
 where you are going. This can be VERY frustrating, not the good kind of frustrating either. The 
 other bad thing about single player is that it is SO short!
  
  Multiplayer is HORRIBLE. I still bust out my gamecube from time to time when we have get togethers 
 at my place. Monkey Ball was always a favorite. No more. It does have 50 games, but maybe 5-6 of 
 them are actually fun, and even then they're not that good. I was very dissapointed in the multiplayer.
 
  
  So, the bottom line?
  
  If you like previous Monkey Ball games and ONLY want singleplayer: Rent it. The game is short and 
 has no replay value (unless you're one of those who HAS to get every banana in every board) . You'll 
 probably beat the game in 2 days and never play it again, not worth the $50 tag.
  
  If you like previous Monkey Ball games and ONLY want multiplayer: Don't even bother. Get Raving 
 Rabbid, GREAT multiplayer game!
  
  If you don't have any experience with any previous Monkey Ball games: Rent it.
  
  This game 
 really isn't buy worthy at all. The only reason to buy it is if you're a die hard Monkey Ball fan 
 and would want to pick it up again in about a year. The problem with that is I'm sure they'll have 
 a newer game out by then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 281538960
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 30, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  I had only played the original Monkey Ball up to this point in time, so I wouldn't be able to compare 
 the newest addition to the series to anything other than the first. Having played the first, I 
 remember it being one of the most addictive games around. It was easy to pick up, easy to get into, 
 and easy to play with friends, whether it was the single player mode or the fund mini-games. This 
 sequel stays within the same standards, with a new controller to get the job done with.
  The game is played simply by rolling around your monkey ball through various courses, each carrying 
 their own set of obstacles. You simply tilt and Wii-mote where you want your monkey to roll. For 
 me, it helped to think that the controller was the actual course, and I was tilting that around 
 instead of actually rolling the ball. Along the courses, you'll also search for bananas in order 
 to get extra lives, and try to complete the course in the shortest time possible. Easy, right? 
 Sure. Until you start getting to the later courses. These are the ones where you will be tearing 
 your hair out in frustration, constantly flying off ledges or running out of time by being to careful. 
 The new controls to the game do not make this any easier. Compared to previous titles, you'll definitly 
 feel like you have much less control of your monkey than you did before, and it does take a bit 
 of getting used to. This has been the topic of much criticism for the game, yet in many ways, it 
 is one of its stronger points. Come on, we still need to play challenging games, remember? You'll 
 be working on a level, going bananas (haha... see what I did there?) before you actually complete 
 it. You'll turn off the console and throw the controller down in anger... only to cool down for 
 five minutes and then say Okay, I'm ready to give it another go. The challenge is what keeps you 
 coming back for more.
  The blitz won't stop there, however. You've still got fifty brand new mini-games to check out and 
 play with your friends. Each mini-game tries to make unique usage of the new Wii-mote, yet with 
 fifty mini-games, you can expect some of them to be major duds, while other ones just simply did 
 not respond to the controller that well. Regardless, get three of your friends together, and you're 
 guaranteed to have a somewhat enjoyable time, and out of so many mini-games, you're bound to find 
 quite a few that will keep you and your friends occupied for a while.
  Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz proves to be a valuable asset to the Wii launch lineup, despite 
 some minor shortcomings. Tey if you are looking for an addictive, challenging game to add to your 
 Wii library, MOnkey Ball might be a pretty safe bet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mindchamber
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 29, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  The reason I purchased the Wii was obviously for the new gameplay mechanics now open to you thanks 
 to the Wii remote. While the remote is alot more gimmicky than I hoped, games like Wii sports really 
 attempts to use the remote to its fullest advantage. Games found in wii sports such as the Bowling, 
 boxing and golf, really attempt to give the player as much movement and range as possible.
  Monkey ball doesn't.......
  Monkeyball seriously doesn't take real advantage of the wii remote.
 
  the movement registration in monkey seems more digital than analogue.
  
  theres no range of motion registered in most of the minigames, bar the main single player. The 
 most obvious are the mini games similar to Wii sports. The boxing, bowling and golf in Monkey ball 
 all produce these canned animations when ever movement is registered from the remote. Which means 
 what you are doing can almost as easily be done with an average controller.
  
  and if thats the case...
  
  then whats the friggin' point? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seasponge2004
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 28, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Super Monkey Ball: Bannana Blitz from Sega is a great game to pick up if you are just getting the 
 Wii. The single player features extremely easy controls yet still maintains the ability to feature 
 very difficult levels. There are a few levels in a world that you will get stuck on and will spend 
 a long time on (I've spent 30 minutes on one particular level) but the best thing to do is keep 
 a cool head and try again. Yet the best part of this game is the multiplayer. This is the main 
 reason I bought Super Monkey Ball. The multiplayer does feature some minigames that arent the best 
 (Im talking to you Ring Toss ) and the motion sensing doesnt always seem to work on all the games 
 but most of the time it was my fault for taking the Wii remote out of the sensor's range. But most 
 of the multiplayer games, like Monkey Target and Hurdle do give fun and different uses of the Wii 
 controller. This game is a great game and possibly one of the best games out for the Wii and for 
 the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LowJo
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 26, 2006 8:53 pm PT
Review:  The Super Monkey Ball series has had its own cult following for quite some time. Not only are 
 the characters cute, nor is it just an alternative to Mario Party games, but it was fun, simple, 
 and addictive in its own right.
  You would think that the Wii, a console made in mind for simple, fun, party times would be a perfect 
 home for SMB. Unfortunately due to some poor planning and/or lack of ingenuity, Super Monkey Ball 
 isnt all that it is cracked up to be, or couldve been.
  To start off, there are only two options: Single Player, or Party. The single player portion has 
 you choose a character from a cast of six or so monkeys, each with their own personal attributes 
 that to the best of my knowledge are not shown at all in the game. You must use your common knowledge 
 to figure out that if a monkey seems to fit the big deep voiced genre, he must be easier to control, 
 yet slower than the rest.
  The controls for single player are a bit touchy and hard to get used to. I was hoping to be able 
 to start up and start playing after a good 15 minutes of getting used to the controls, but I found 
 myself almost pulling out my hair after the good first two hours. Considering I bought this game 
 for my girlfriend, it was a bit frustrating when I couldnt even get past the first boss. After 
 spending some time with it, I got a hang of the controls, but was still easily frustrated with 
 how difficult some of the later stages were. Some may argue that I was just new to the game, but 
 the whole point of the Wii is to be simple and easy to pick up and play. I wasnt have that great 
 of time with it.
  The party mode didnt make me any more excited either. The games were boring, short, and some did 
 not even function properly. There were a few games that were rehashed, just with a small twist 
 or different concept, and there were some that were just downright impossible due to poor implementation 
 of the Wii sensors. (The trombone game) .
  All in all, there will be better games out there that you could enjoy with your friends (Rayman) , 
 or even the packed in Wii sports was more enjoyable with my friends.
  It is unfortunate that such a good concept could go wayside due to poor implementation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SisterOfZelda
Rating: 4.2
Date: Nov 25, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  I am happy to say that I only rented this game and you will know why later in the review. .
  
  Gameplay- Okay lets start with the bad news first. The gameplay varies to a little fun, to 
 not very interesting, to painfully hard and not in the fun way. For example the first player mode 
 shouldn't even be consider a mode at all. You basically just run through a track from start to 
 finish and once you completey a number of tracks you get a boss battle, which requires you to hit 
 a certain button on the boss body. If you haven't guess this can get old fast. .
  
  Also the story if you want to call it that really doesn't have that much depth. I understand that 
 the game is meant more for multiplayer but the creators could have at least pretend that they took 
 the first player mode more seriously. Next is the mini games. All the mini games seem fun and interesting 
 to play the only problem is that most (if not all) the game are difficult to play due to the fact 
 of how complex the game want to play and due to the fact that some of the games don't even pick 
 up the controllers movements. .
  
  For example of how complex a game can get I'll use a mini game like Alien Attack. Instead of turning 
 the wiimote/nunchuck left or right to turn you might have to point them up or down. Or if you want 
 to jump you have to seperate them instead of just tilting up. .
  
  Also like I said early there are times when the game won't pick up your movements even when your 
 sitting right in front of it. I found this odd and frustrating since there are time when I play 
 Wii Sports or Zelda and can be all the way on the other side of the TV to the point that I'm not 
 even pointing directly to the screen and the games still picks up my movements.. Graphics- The 
 graphics are okay. Nothing that the average gamecube or even PS2 can do. .
  
  Sound- Some good news the music is pretty good. It has that cute and childish theme to it but not 
 to the point thats its annoying. .
  
  Value- I guess if you some how like the mini games Super Monkey Balls have some replay value.
 
  
  In the end I suggest that you rent this but only if you want to see how bad a game it really is. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmw1981
Rating: 6.6
Date: Nov 23, 2006 9:12 pm PT
Review:  stick to Wii Sports, I rented Monkey Ball and we didn't enjoy that half as much as sports. I just 
 got 9 straight Home Runs and then went down swinging on the 10th pitch. :- (
  
  back to monkey ball, single-player sucks and the multi-player just isn't anything special. Lots 
 of games, and they test the Wii-mote out nicely, but so does Wii Sports, and it came free. The 
 Wii really is the best system out value-wise I believe. But it's completely different from PS3 
 and 360. A new revolutionary game system. This game didn't deliver in any way a great experience, 
 unless maybe you are 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonboarder22
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 23, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Game should be less than a 7. Gameplay is terrible. I'm trying to save anyone who may be considering 
 purchasing this game. I hope others will join me in this crusade to hack down the rating on this 
 game. The price of this shouldn't be more than 10 bucks. Rent it first if you have a deep interest, 
 but for your own safety stay far away from this game, it will only cause harm. Found nothing fun 
 about this. Some of the mini games don't even work. I cannot see how this got a higher score than 
 the Rayman game. At least in the Rayman game it's fun and funny. No need to thank me. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scurran007
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 2, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  I am disappointed! I was really looking forward to Challenge Mode! Where is it? Guess what, there 
 is no challenge mode... The story seems to be a single player Monkey Ball. Where is the fun in 
 that? I loved when we got together as a family and strived to get to the next level and be the 
 farthest! This just stinks...
  The Mini-Games are good for the kids.. but nothing to write home about . The fact that some are 
 not to functional does not help either... I would not call super monkey ball a good proof of concept 
 for the Wii controls... Wii Sports is much better for that purpose.
  If you ask me, I got the shaft when I bought this game/ I give is about a 5 -5.5 rating because 
 I might actually do the levels by myself at some point... but for the most part, I'll be playing 
 my Game Cube version on the Wii... What a shame....
  Beware of the Hype Masters.... this game is in no way an 8.3 or a 7.5 for that matter.... even if 
 you we a monkey ball fanboy it would rate a 5.8 at the most!
  
  Ah well.... I have other games.. its just sad..
  
  FYI - its been two weeks now and the game 
 does grow on you. My wife an kids play this one a lot, so I guess the fun factor is there... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toiletmunger
Rating: 5.2
Date: Nov 21, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  This game looked good at first but when I played it, it sucked ! I mean, story mode was kinda fun 
 but, WAY over-stimulating.
  
  The motion you make with the Wii-mote hurts your hand. When I tried to do an easier level, I had 
 to keep doing the same level over and over. That was REALLY annoying. I have to admit, I like the 
 cocept of the game (monkey in a ball) and the new characters (YanYan and Doctor) are cool, too. 
 But still, it just doesn't quite float my boat.
  
  Since I haven't beaten the first boss yet, I can't tell you about that. But, this game is so hard, 
 I'm gonna return it for another game before I can even say, the boss battles are...
  
  I guess what I'm saying is, this isn't the best launch game in the world. Try something else.... 
 That's what I'm gonna do. Anyway, eat your cheese ! Bye ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buddycuffs
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 20, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Monkey Ball: Banana Blits is very addictive and very entertaining, The controls are a bit quirky 
 to get all of the levels down as easy as the other MB games, but to back that up they give you 
 a lot more time for the more challenging levels. The boss battles are simple and fun. And as for 
 the Mini-Games, I've only played about 20 whereas most of them were good but would be a lot more 
 fun with 4 people. The two new characters are pretty much just OK, but it's good that they added 
 them to add variety. The jump feature also has potential, but sort of derives the game from the 
 usual MB style.
  
  I'm sure the next installment of MB for the Wii will be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunark
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  I should say out front that I bought this game solely for it's multi-player party mode. I wanted 
 a fun, simple game, playable when alcohol and/or pizza are involved. I obviously wasn't looking 
 for mind-blowing graphics, amazing sound, or depth and complexity. Pure FUN was the #1 factor here.
 
  
  Well, what a disappointment this steaming pile of monkey turd turned out to be. Of the 50 or so 
 multiplayer games, so far I've found maybe 3 or 4 that I'd want to play more than once. At least 
 10 are so repetitive and un-fun that we were forced to quit half way through. My entire city is 
 completely sold out of the nunchuck attachments, so I haven't been able to try any of the games 
 that require it. Maybe there's some hope there, but I'm not holding my breath.
  
  In any case, I'll say it again. The mini games are mostly terrible, for so many reasons. Some are 
 repetitive, some are impossible to control, others just too easy, and most just not very interesting.
 
  
  I totally fail to understand why this game is getting such glowing reviews. It's awful. Hold out 
 and wait for something better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wsucougar307
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 21, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  The story isn't in depth, There isn't a super amount of graphic detail, There isn't even a high 
 level of customization. But this game is just flat out fun. It is like a futuristic pinball that 
 you can play for a half hour and enjoy every second of it. The gameplay is addictive and the graphics 
 and good enough. I would put this as the third or fourth must own title for Wii (depending on if 
 you are a Madden Fan or Not) . It is a pure gameplay game. Plain and simple. The multiplayer is 
 also fun. I would definitely check this title out and see for yourself.
  
  Pros:
  
  Gameplay.
  
  Cons:
  
  Depth 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RogerC44
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2006 2:30 am PT
Review:  If you played previous games of Super Monkey Ball then you know what to expect from this one. This 
 game is very great this is one of the games that you should get if you have a Wii. I think that 
 it's a great game too. It's a great multi player like the other previous games were too. Sometimes 
 the camara control can be bad but it still is a great game. Pretty much the game is kind of short. 
 I thought it would be a little longer. Great mini games, great game for friends (if you have any 
 at all) And the graphics are great too. It's no surprise this is a good game. If you have a Wii 
 you need to at least play this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigmouthkid
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 18, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  Super Monkey Ball Banana Blitz is a fun game with very cool mini-games. The game has some really 
 cool features with the multi-player which makes this game so exciting to buy. But now I'm gonna 
 get to real aspects.
  
  Gameplay- It altars but it's still pretty good. I was amazed when I was playing it at best buy.^_^ 
 I was hooked.
  
  Graphics- They really nice and awesome the background is so nice and the action graphics in the 
 gameplay is awesome too. I don't why most users on gamespot are saying that the wii isn't next-gen.
 
  
  Sound- The sound effects are pretty cool especialy when you're playing with 2 or more players. 
 But I was playing with my friend so when you're playing with another player instead of by your 
 self the game kinda sounds nicer.
  
  Vaule- Don't know what that is but I say it deserves alot.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt- I don't know 
 what that is either. Sorry! : ( 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
