-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Surf's Up
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/surfsup/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Solid gameplay design complemented by a decent trick system.
 Good visuals and voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Wii version is missing a trick style.
 Championship mode can be beaten in 90 minutes, and there are barely any supplemental modes.
 Physics and animations can sometimes get kooky and glitchy.
 Lame soundtrack.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  1, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 6.7, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 50 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
Genre: Surfing
Date: May 30, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Hanging 10 in this movie-licensed surfing game has its moments -- just don't expect to enjoy it for 
 very long. 

  Thank god for the occasional bucked trend. Surf's Up could very easily have been yet another lamely 
 produced platformer or action adventure game based on an animated film. Instead, it's an oddly 
 competent surfing game. The game eschews any attempts at retelling the film's story, and is instead 
 content to act purely as a companion piece, letting you play as all the key characters from the 
 film in a game that feels like a combo of Kelly Slater and Wave Race for kids. It's not a remarkable 
 game, but at times it can be a decent bit of fun. It's just a shame that it offers so little in 
 terms of content.  

          Surf's Up isn't remarkable, but it's a decent little surfing game; and hey, it beats the 
 heck out of T&amp; C Surf Designs any day.     

  Jumping into a game of Surf's Up is a little off-putting at first. Your chosen surfer essentially 
 travels through the level on rails, and it's up to you to guide him or her past the various obstacles 
 that litter the game's courses. All along the way, a constant wave moves along with you, and you 
 can use this wave to perform tricks. The trick system is rudimentary, only tasking you with moving 
 up the wave until you get to the peak, then jumping off by hitting one of the trick buttons. While 
 you're in the air, you can do one of several different trick types, from grab tricks to special 
 tricks that can only be performed once you've built up a special trick meter. This meter is also 
 tied to speed boosts, which you can use to power past certain obstacles or opponent surfers.  

 
  As you go, you'll also be trying to pass through various gates, collect power-ups, grind on various 
 rails, and occasionally go crashing through stuff. All these tricks net you points, and the goal 
 of most levels is to hit a certain point target. There are actually two point targets in each stage, 
 but you only have to hit the first to progress.  

  The trick system works fairly well, and the controls are solid. The Wii version is the only one 
 that deviates from the standard control scheme, but it doesn't go overboard with motion controls. 
 The only motion you use in the game is to swing the Wii Remote downward to engage a speed boost. 
 However, the one caveat is that the Wii version is also missing a trick type, seemingly because 
 of the controller's lack of buttons compared with all the other console versions. The Wii version 
 doesn't necessarily suffer because of this, as it's pretty easy to hit the score targets without 
 this trick type, but it does come off as lazy that no effort was made to keep the missing trick 
 in the game.  

  If there's any real complaint to be lobbied against the gameplay on all versions, it's that it's 
 occasionally bewildering. The tricks and other mechanics are quite simplistic, but getting your 
 surfer to engage in certain actions -- rail sliding, for instance -- is an inconsistent process. The 
 game is unpredictable with when it wants to magnetize you toward a rail to slide or have you miss 
 it altogether. You also may end up wrecking into a few more rocks or other immovable objects than 
 you'd prefer due to character movement not being quick enough or the sometimes-wonky physics pushing 
 you toward an object even though you were turning in the opposite direction. These issues don't 
 really make the game frustrating, as the difficulty is easy enough to where even crashing on a 
 regular basis doesn't detract from you passing a level. They're just kind of annoying.  

  The other issue of note with Surf's Up is that there's just nothing to it. The game's primary mode 
 is the championship mode, where you move from level to level, hitting the score targets and eventually 
 taking on the big kahuna of surfing, Tank, in the last stage. However, besting the championship 
 mode doesn't take more than an hour and a half the first time through. Granted, you won't collect 
 all the various idols and other hidden doodads in one play, but it's hard to imagine anyone taking 
 more than three or four hours to pull that off. Beyond this mode, there's a basic multiplayer mode 
 that's for two players on the Wii and PlayStation 2 and four players on the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 
 3. It's not online, and the number of maps you can race on is limited, but it's there. Finally, 
 there's a lame side game called Leaf Sliding, where you're lugging a big leaf down one of three 
 down-sloping courses. This mode is mildly amusing once, but that's about it.  

          If only there were more to do in the game thanwell, just this.     

  The game does 
 at least have some decent presentational values backing it up. The graphics aren't stellar, but 
 the characters look good, the water moves nicely, and some of the trick animations are pretty cool. 
 Other animations look stiff and glitchy, but not horrifically so. Of course, the 360 and PS3 versions 
 look significantly better than the Wii and PS2 versions, but for its hardware capabilities, the 
 Wii version actually looks quite good, too. The PS2 version is another story. The frame rate is 
 much choppier in that version, and all the neat little visual effects on the water and environments 
 are pretty much absent, making it look a lot blander than the other versions. The game's audio 
 is decent, mostly because some of the actors from the film reprise their roles here, albeit in 
 an extremely limited fashion. Most of the dialogue comes from little news blips that act as surf 
 reports before each stage, and though most of the jokes are pretty dumb, the voice acting isn't 
 half bad. Less entertaining is the soundtrack, which is mostly generic rock, including some exceedingly 
 generic songs from bands like Simple Plan and Homegrown.  

  Surf's Up deserves a bit of credit for turning in something that isn't just a cakewalk action platformer 
 that does a lousy job of retelling the film's story. Sure, it would have been nice if the developers 
 had included  any  story to speak of, but from a gameplay perspective, the surfing-on-rails mechanic 
 works better than you'd expect and provides periodic moments of legitimate fun. It won't appeal 
 much to older players, and regardless of which platform you pick it up on, it's not worth its overly 
 expensive price tag, given the barren amount of content the game offers up. But for younger kids 
 who dug the movie, you'll get everything you need out of Surf's Up over the course of a rental 
 period.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  While its cinematic namesake drowned in a low-grossing tide at the box office, Surf's Up the videogame 
 manages to keep it's head well above water. Although, that said, its technique is more amateur 
 splash than an Olympian stroke. A family-orientated racer, this game is a great introduction to 
 extreme sports for kids, with a steady undercurrent of 'guilty pleasure' for older gamers and parents.
 
  
  This is because it's an incredibly likeable little game, supplanting Tony Hawk stunt mechanics 
 to an oceanic racecourse. While you can already get big air thrills and gnarly tricks in the likes 
 of SSX Blur, Surf's Up introduces its own unique take on the genre which crucially makes it distinct 
 from other Hawk-wannabes. This takes the form of a massive tidal wave. This force of nature will 
 be both ally and nemesis to your chosen rider on each of the race courses. 
  
  Catch A Wave
  The wave, several penguins in height, rolls in from either the left or right of 
 the screen once the race starts. Your goal is to keep ahead of it as it slowly sweeps across the 
 racecourse. You do this by utilising its half-pipe capabilities, surfing up and off it and chaining 
 tricks while in the air, which will fill up an on-screen boost bar. The more stunts you perform, 
 the more points you get and the greater your speed increases - and therefore the more air you'll 
 get off the wave. It's a cycle that's been seen before in the Tony Hawk series, but things aren't 
 that simple in Surf's Up. 
  
  There's more to each track than one continuous wave. As we've said, it will gradually travel across 
 the screen; screw up your landing back onto the sea a few times and your lack of speed will see 
 you gradually hemmed in on one side of the racecourse as the wave continues it course. You'll then 
 learn to appreciate the debris that litters each stage - icebergs, cliffs, even wooden huts are 
 weaved throughout each and present a significant danger unless navigated speedily. There might 
 be times when the only way for you to go is head first into a wall - animal cruelty at its worst. 
 
  
  Hang Ten!
  Steering through these will lead you to discover grind ramps, bonus gates and multiplier collectables 
 - all of which rack huge bonuses onto your overall score. 
  See, while you will be racing other competitors, it's your final stunt score at 
  the end of 
 each race that's the important factor. Each race has three separate challenges, usually two score-related 
 and one tasking you to collect certain items (such as picking up seal statues or passing through 
 a certain number of gates) . 
  
  Doing two or all three, unlocks new boards, riders and racecourses. It means that each course is 
 expanded by a factor of three - do you play for a high score, try to explore the course for hidden 
 items as you race by or do you try and complete as many tasks as possible? 
  
  Surf's Up does have it's problems though. There's a sense of inevitable frustration when you jump 
 off a wave and sail straight into an unavoidable wall and the few seconds you spend in the air 
 makes you wish that the draw distance was a bit further. There also isn't a huge number of courses, 
 despite breaking them into five separate areas, and even the hardest courses wont present much 
 of a challenge to seasoned gamers.
  
  But all in all, it's an enjoyable diversion. In the true spirit of a British vacation, it's overpriced 
 and not as exciting as stated 
  on the brochure but you'll still come away with some fond memories and you'll be glad you tried 
 it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilucy
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Refreshing gameplay, physics are excellent, unusual feel. Trying different characters and ways 
 of 'surfing' make for a lot of replay. Two player mode is fun on a widescreen TV. You get tempted 
 to try the different surf courses again and again to do the 'perfect' race and beat your score. 
 Many ways to go through a course, and it's by no means easy to do it well. Challenging, if you're 
 trying for high scores. But it's fun and refreshing 'free' feeling just to do each course. Wii 
 controls are used well. Courses are different and the environment graphics are varied and really 
 interesting. Wish there were just a few more 'worlds'.
  
  Wish it would keep an individual high-score list, it just keeps the last best score, so you can 
 miss what your game score was if you didn't beat the last one. That's the only complaint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IamaFreakygamer
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  WARNING: If your looking for a detailed review this is not the place - I pick out the good and 
 bad!!!!!!!!!!
  
  
  ... SURFS UP.... Well... how can i describe it....
  GOOD THINGS! :)
  
  It's got good graphics! and its great compeating against other surfers...
  Well thats it 
 really!
  
  BAD THINGS! : (
  
  It takes 5MINS 2 COMPLEATE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Ok not 5 mins but its takes about 1.5h to compleat!
  Terrible songs,
  No Story line!!!
  All 
 you do is surf, which could be fun for some of you!
  
  I was thinking this could be a really good game and one of my favs! If u have this game you might 
 of thought the same but you compleat it fast and so its a WAST OF MONEY! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
