-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tales of Symphonia: Dawn of the New World
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/rpg/talesofsymphonia2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fast-paced, combo-intensive battle system.
 Familiar faces from the original.
 Fun four-person multiplayer support.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Too much emphasis on cutscenes.
 Very muddled plot.
 Occasionally poor AI and lack of sufficient tactical controls.
 Pointless crafting and monster hunting provide little depth.
 Camera may hide important areas or puzzle elements.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 24, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.1, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 699 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco Bandai Games America
Developer: Bandai Namco Games
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Nov 11, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dawn of the New World is a sequel that fails to establish itself as anything more than fan fare. 
 

  Tales of Symphonia: Dawn of the New World is a lighthearted action role-playing game that reacquaints 
 fans of the GameCube original with a wealth of familiar locations and faces. Although those who 
 appreciated its predecessor's lovable characters and fast-paced battle system will undoubtedly 
 be thrilled with New World's striking similarities, the game does little to progress beyond its 
 forbearer aside from adding a superfluous monster-pact system. Additionally, those looking for 
 a greater gameplay-to-cutscene ratio and a clearer, more interesting plot may be baffled by how 
 drastically New World comes up short.  

  The game returns you to Tethe'alla and Sylvarant, two worlds finally reunited by the birth of a 
 new World Tree. Unfortunately, world regeneration came with a price; the death of the old World 
 Tree has unbalanced the world, causing climate change and crazed monsters to strike every town. 
 Marta, a girl with a special gem, is seeking to restore the balance by awakening Ratatosk, lord 
 of monsters, who should stop the monster attacks and fix the disastrous weather. A young orphan 
 boy named Emil soon joins her in exchange for the power to avenge his parents' death. The duo quickly 
 meets numerous characters from the game's progenitor, but you may be disappointed if you're hoping 
 to play with your favorites, given that you have zero control over who joins or leaves your party. 
 Furthermore, though various plot points and background information are periodically explained, 
 the storyline is an intimidating, convoluted mess.  

           Perform artes and unison attacks to demolish foes.      

  Exploration is restricted 
 due to the fact that you don't get to do any on the world map, which features straightforward, 
 menu-based navigation from city to city without the hope of random encounters. This switch dramatically 
 increases linearity and also causes a balancing issue because it limits leveling options to dungeons 
 alone. Progressing through the plot too quickly can leave you woefully unprepared for bosses, forcing 
 you to revisit old dungeon haunts and repeat battles to keep up to speed. The dungeons themselves 
 are usually limited to three key areas and pose little challenge, with their sole difficulty stemming 
 from illogical twists and a camera that obscures important puzzle elements or your next destination, 
 which can be maddening.  

  Battles occur in real time and are mostly button-mashing affairs against easy foes that require 
 almost no strategic planning short of running behind an enemy and slashing it in the back. You 
 simply mash the attack button to perform combos that raise the attack gauge, which enables powerful 
 unison attacks with allies. Artes, the game's special attack and magic system, include a healthy 
 slew of options for those who enjoy spamming devastating magic between extensive combo strings. 
 Your AI teammates are usually intelligent enough to back you up, but when their behavior turns 
 idiotic, you may have to issue tactical orders via the battle menu. What's disappointing is that 
 you're unable to set general targets for your party; this lack is quite vexing when you encounter 
 healing enemies because it's impossible for you to order your teammates to attack the healer, and 
 battles are significantly lengthened as a result. You can also combat your party's stupidity by 
 switching between allies, thereby seizing direct control, or by enlisting up to three friends to 
 follow your lead, which is great fun and eliminates any targeting fuss.  

  The new pact system offers a refreshing twist to the battle system but quickly becomes irksome 
 and meaningless. Each battlefield emphasizes an elemental grid consisting of one primary and five 
 secondary elements; to form a pact with a monster to enlist its services, you must defeat it by 
 matching the primary to four of the secondary elements via artes, which have elemental attributes. 
 This can be a very frustrating process because your initial access to artes is limited; it's also 
 difficult to keep your allies from adjusting the grid without ordering them to stand down, but 
 it gets easier as you acquire more artes. You may even find yourself accidentally befriending monsters, 
 of which you can store more than 200. Unfortunately, forming pacts is largely unnecessary because 
 you quickly gain more-powerful human allies and rarely travel without them, which makes monster 
 hunting a moot point.  

  A few miscellaneous features provide a miniscule amount of depth, including side quests activated 
 at the katz guild, though most of these are short, boring adventures that restrict you from saving 
 the game until they're finished. There is an item-synthesis system for turning the most banal of 
 objects into awe-inspiring gear, but money and items are so easy to come by that it should be of 
 interest only to item enthusiasts. Cooking is paired with the pact system to enable you to feed 
 your monsters, which improves their stats and may even evolve them into a tougher form, but on 
 the whole you're left with little other than trivial side quests and needless monster management 
 to pass the time.  

           One of the very many cutscenes that you'll be tempted to skip.      

  Although the 
 game is graphically superior to its GameCube predecessor, it's still only mediocre visually; the 
 character design isn't as adorable as the original's cel-shaded style, and jaggy edges haunt many 
 an environmental object. Fortunately, a vivid color palette and flashy spell effects keep things 
 lively and are supported with soothing village tunes and the traditional fake rock battle music 
 typical of the genre. Cutscenes, the staple of the Tales franchise, are perhaps the game's most 
 bothersome aspect because their overemphasis constantly interrupts the flow of play. Gameplay is 
 plagued by annoying flashbacks or lengthy discussions in which characters repeat full lines of 
 chatter to reinforce the simplest of objectives. Likewise, optional party-member chat skits, which 
 provide character insights if you're lucky, more often than not culminate in cliche cooking comments 
 and romantic quips. Cutscenes and skits are frequently spaced back to back within mere footsteps 
 of each other, and the annoying, exaggerated voicing only accentuates the poor, cheesy dialogue, 
 though there is an option to turn voice-overs off.  

  You should barrel through the eight chapters in about 30 hours, but much of this time is spent 
 enduring lengthy, cliche cutscenes or engaging in tiresome leveling sessions at previously completed 
 dungeons. You could up the play time significantly by acquiring items for synthesis, completing 
 all side quests, and collecting every monster, but it's much more fun to take advantage of the 
 four-person multiplayer, though it's still restricted to battles.  

  Tales of Symphonia: Dawn of the New World should be enjoyed by anyone who appreciated its progenitor's 
 unique characters, but its overwhelming amount of distracting cutscenes, overbearing linearity, 
 pointless pact system, and general lack of depth severely limit its appeal.  

    Editor's Note: This review previously stated that cutscenes cannot be skipped, which they actually 
 can be by holding down the A and B buttons simultaneously. GameSpot regrets the error.       
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (57 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Nzilla
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 12:40 pm PT
Review:  I very much enjoyed Tales of Smphonia: Dawn of the new world. In fact, i enjoyed it so much that 
 i went online and bought the gamecube predecessor, kicking myself that i missed it the first time. 
 The story was deep and immersive. A charming love story wrapped around a quest to save the world. 
 It really sucks you in, at least for those of us who enjoy a good storyline in our games.
  
  As for the gameplay, compared to the original, everything seems more simple, more user friendly. 
 This is good in some places, not so much in others. Combat is deeply enjoyable and the new monster 
 taming system is fun to play with, seeing what monsters you can develop on your own. It is sad 
 to say that this comes at the expense of leveling up most of your human teammates. The original 
 cast does make a return appearance but they're mostly for show. Their levels are set by the game 
 and cannot be altered. They can't even equip new weapons. The only two humans you get to really 
 play with are the two main characters which is not such a bad thing. If you played through the 
 previous game then some fresh blood is a nice chance of pace. Still, why bother putting the heroes 
 of the previous game into the new game unless they're ment to be played seriously??
  
  Another way the user friendly interface may have been taken too far is world travel. Instead of 
 actually going out into the world and going where the hell you want, you select citys from a list 
 of available travel destinations and go there automatically with no random monster encounters or 
 anything else fun that happens between locations.
  
  Fear not though. The adorable anime-style cut scenes from the first game are back, now with sound 
 and better animation. These are ADORABLE and definitely add to the game and the storyline. You 
 really get a better sense of the characters in these little snippits, most of which are quite humorous.
 
  
  Over all an excellent game, and one i would recommend to any RPG fans.
  
  oh, and watching your wimp of a main character turn into a badass in battle is kind of cool too. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joloven
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2009 1:14 am PT
Review:  
  
  This series is a wonderful continuation of the story of the world of what happened after Loydd 
 & friends saved the old world.
  
  But what really makes this game fun is the humorous ways that the main characters, Emil, and Marta 
 interact, those two are the stars of this game, not the other characters who often show up and 
 yes they do entertain us.
  
  The humor is witty and clever, the voice acting is very good, but the original casts voice acting 
 have mostly changed actors, which is a shame, go into the game knowing this and you will have a 
 bettter oppinon of it.
  
  The story is. "Okay" but the best part is the characters.. Have I enjoyed this? Absolutely. I would 
 buy it again if I had to. My first day I spent playing it for 14 solid hours, and I work a full 
 time job, have responsibilities.... Well I had to let them slip! At least I don't have a girl friend 
 XD... Anyways yes, enjoy this game, buy it if yoiu like tales. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CloudRainy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 10:58 pm PT
Review:  The game started out slow in the beginning. The scenes in the beginning also have the stereotypical 
 hero who is lonely and independent. I was rather disappointed during the first five hours of gameplay 
 because of the same layout from the first game. After you get the hook of things, the story starts 
 to roll on. The world is completely in sync with the previous game and nothing new is added. People 
 who played the original Symphonia game will breeze through the dungeons because of its familiarity. 
 There are some horrendous mini games that must be completed to advance in the game. Most of the 
 time, I had to turn off the game to regain my sanity after losing in the mini games. The story 
 picked up and never disseminated onwards. There are three ending to the game that reflects the 
 decisions the player made during the course of the game. I loved the ending and wanted more. The 
 game is great for previous players of Symphonia. I would recommend this game to any Wii owners 
 that are looking for some quality time with a JRPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NARUTO_CRAZY
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 12:45 pm PT
Review:  People think this game sucks cause not being able to walk on the map like you used to or the way 
 the game is but Tales of Symphonia: Dawn of the New World gives you interesting parts of the stories, 
 humor, romance, and excellent combos and mystic artes. The level of graphics doesn't seem colorful 
 than it used to be cause it seems a little bit dull than it used to be. But, the story is about 
 a shy 18 year-old start ties with a girl named Marta and the heroes of the past and alot more. 
 This story has lots of twist and turns that people will find more than they offer. You can also 
 befriend monsters with a pact but may run away. Those monsters you have will fight alongside with 
 you. You can only customized Emil and Marta. You can play as the heroes of the past, or have them 
 fight with you. Unless you have 3 other controllers and have friends over do it. You can't play 
 as monsters though. There are three endings but they are determined by you. So if you have a WII 
 and loved RPG games, then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam3231
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 10, 2009 11:31 am PT
Review:  Following previous installments in the Tales series, Dawn of the New World is a Real Time Strategy 
 RPG in which you control a team of several characters to defeat enemies. Similar to the GameCube 
 prequel "Tales of Symphonia," it offers a multiplayer co-op option during battles so you can play 
 with up to 4 people. 
  
  This game makes a nice first impression starting from the beautiful menu screen. It's phenomenal, 
 I mean you could have thought it was ps3 or xbox360 or something, this is a lot to say about just 
 a menu screen but it just looked so artistically refined. Unfortunately, there's a brief "snap 
 back to reality" when to venture past the menu screen and into the game. Ah yes, I am playing the 
 Nintendo Wii after all. The graphics and artwork has shown considerable improvement from the prequel 
 but definitely nothing to call home about. Occasionally the game suffers from some noticeable frame 
 rate drops as well but nothing that will disrupt gameplay. 
  
  Jumping into the first "Tales of Symphonia," was a blast, but jumping into this one feels like 
 falling from a twenty story building, only to have the flag pole from below impaled through your 
 own pelvis having a few brief seconds of excruciating pain before bleed to your own death. Okay 
 maybe that's overdoing it but beginning of this game is insanely boring, within an hour, you'll 
 be running around as a very wuss like hero, barely getting any fighting action, and watching unnecessary 
 cutscenes with awkward conversations between characters. I'm sorry Namco, but was this game tested 
 before its release? Did I accidentally pick up some sort of beta version for this game? I find 
 incredibly hard to believe they'd actually release a game, let alone a tales game with this painfully 
 slow eye gouging introduction. Provided you can endure an agonizing first hour, and not much better 
 second hour, you will be rewarded with a decent RPG experience  yes kids, there IS light at the 
 end of the tunnel. Let's not push it though, the storyline is respectable but does seem a bit cluttered 
 at times, and fairly linear leading up to the end. It has its moments, but not too many huge surprises. 
 It manages to be charming but sometimes overly tacky. The intro could have definitely been improved 
 and the ending could probably been a little less predictable. Let's just say overall it's alright, 
 I mean not bad, good job, not great job, just good job. As far as relationship to the first prequel's 
 story, there is none, but you sure will learn a ton about what happened in the original game if 
 you haven't played it yet.
  
  Throughout most of the game, you will be playing with the two new characters to the series featured 
 on the box art  Emil and Marta. Emil is a boy who suffers from conflicting personalities, one 
 of his personalities being a timid, low self esteem wuss. But when he senses danger, he changes 
 into a rage driven killing machine controlled by a summon spirit. The game's 2nd most significant 
 character, Marta, is a girl who has a very tomboy like personality but an obsessive love for Emil. 
 There are also other new characters to the game that make this sequel feel like a fresh game, but 
 veterans will be pleased to see many of the prequel's characters return to play significant roles 
 in Dawn of the New World. Unfortunately, while the two new main characters spice up things for 
 old tales players, I ultimately believe that they failed to be anymore than annoying throughout 
 the game, and overshadowed the importance of other characters in the story. The main character, 
 Emil's wuss like trait was truly overdone, after hearing him talk in such a sissy voice for so 
 long, the other part of his personality is like a breath of fresh air. His wuss like personality 
 actually starts to fade and becomes less annoying throughout the game, but the other main character 
  Marta, only becomes more annoying. Early parts of the game she's relatively cheery, and light 
 hearted but deeper into the plot it's like she's like a teenage girl having her first period. To 
 sum it up, I would have been fine with just a sequel using the original characters from, and I 
 probably wouldn't mind inviting Richter either. (A new character done right)
  
  The gameplay is overall a very satisfying experience but doesn't go without it's "What was Namco 
 thinking?" moments. First off, the battle system has improved from the prequel. It now offers ability 
 to free move, and the camera no longer locks on just to player 1. With a wide variety of moves 
 and techniques available to perform on enemies, this game is great grounds for both a solid solo 
 as well as co-op experience. The former "unison" bar where everyone performed a tech move at once 
 from the prequel has been modified into more of a "lets all do a badass move at once," bar. It's 
 definitely results in a more effective attack then the former combining of 4 tech moves, but removes 
 the freedom of being able to choose which moves are going to be combined. The addition of new "Mystic 
 Artes," add a whole new element to the game as well, allowing human characters to perform an overwhelmingly 
 powerful move in which they even have their own little cutscene while they perform it, which is 
 a another positive addition to the battle system from the original game. The only drawback to the 
 new battle system is the new monster capture element. It allows you to capture defeated monsters 
 and use them to fight with you, but it's just an unnecessary kicker to the game should have never 
 been added because fighting with humans has an overwhelming advantage over using monsters. Plus 
 human players cannot play as monsters, throwing less encouragement to even use monsters to begin 
 with. To top it all off you don't consistently have 4 humans in your party until halfway through 
 the game, so you're forced to rely on monsters. But overall, battling is probably the best aspect 
 of this game, it's awesome
  
  Outside of battle, you are able to travel throughout areas on foot as the main character, Emil. 
 The areas are well detailed but generally offer minimal interaction. Unlike the prequel, to travel 
 from town to town in this game you select where you want to go on a map, no free world travel like 
 the original. This brings to the game a new convenience of not having to travel across the whole 
 map, but takes away a chance to discover new things and fight enemies on the world map like the 
 original. At least the game doesn't mislead you often, making it quite obvious where you should 
 be moving to, often activating a cutscene to advance the plot.
  
  Oh man I just said "cutscene," After playing this game though I seriously don't think I want to 
 see another cutscene in any game for the next year. Dialogue, skits, bubble conversations, call 
 them what you want  I don't care, its ridiculous how much time in the game you don't even spend 
 playing. Sometimes it's you've just left a cutscene just to walk 5 more steps, have your screen 
 fade to black again and watch another damn pointless cutscene. It's like your drowning in cutscenes, 
 you're trying to find the surface but it's like you're under twenty kids on blow-up rafts, you 
 think you've just escaped one cutscene then the next one hits you in the face. There's no reason 
 for there to be so much game play time taken up by cutscenes unless the first two words in the 
 game's title is "metal gear" NOT "Tales of," Obviously there are ways to speed up through these 
 parts, but they often contain information relevant to the plot, or what you need to do next, but 
 many times they don't. I found it quite irritating at times.
  
  At the end of the day though, I respect Namco for making a decent attempt at providing a sequel 
 for a great GameCube classic. I think ultimately they're more capable of doing better work than 
 this, and I truly wish they would have taken a little more time refined some of the rough edges 
 of what could have been an amazing sequel. I'd definitely recommend to fans of the original and 
 RPG fans alike to at least give it a try. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarymbo
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 29, 2009 9:02 am PT
Review:  This game had its good points as well as its bad points. To summarize this game compared to an 
 older series, this game is like the new Final Fantasy X-2. Redone soundtrack based on the original, 
 revisiting familiar places, all your favorite old characters return (to some degree) , all heaped 
 off with a nice heavy dose of middle school-espue, Jpop, anime. 
  
  Now don't get me wrong, the game does have its strong points, the soundtrack is quite good, the 
 combat system is an improvement over the original, and the nostalgia factor was wonderful. Unfortunately, 
 so much of this game annoyed me, that I will likely never play it through again.
  
  Without spoiling anything major, I will do my best at outlining the main events of the game:
 
  
  First 2 hours: Listening to the most annoying, wussy, meek main character you have EVER seen in 
 an RPG. An non-immersive and slow paced tutorial. Follow this up with with drawn out, unnecessary 
 flashbacks of events that literally happened five minutes earlier and add in an otaku's wet dream 
 of a support character who hits on your from the moment she meets you.
  
  Middle 18 Hours: Rinse and repeat the following events about 6-7 times. Your main characters are 
 looking for someone. You meet up with a character from the first Symphonia game who joins you for 
 an hour or two. You run through a dungeon and find the equivalent of a summon monster. You find 
 the person you were originally looking for but they run off. Your party member from the first Symphonia 
 game leaves the party. Move on to the next town, and repeat. 
  
  Last 6-8 Hours: 90% of the game's plot progression takes place within this time frame. This is 
 the only time during the game I can say I wholeheartedly enjoyed.
  
  Ending: The games ending is short, boring, and non-climactic, and yes, just like my first time 
 having sex, I cried for 2 hours afterwards. Only 1 of the 3 final battles was actually worthwhile, 
 fun, and/or challenging.
  
  Long story short, if your not a veteran of the first Symphonia game or a rabid anime junkie, this 
 game is not for you. 
  
  To everyone who disagrees with this review, let me just say: 
  
  Marta has left the party, formation has changed. Marta has joined the party, formation has 
 changed. Marta has left the party, formation has changed. Marta has joined the party, formation 
 has changed. Marta has left the party, formation has changed. Marta has joined the party, formation 
 has changed. Marta has left the party, formation has changed. Marta has joined the party, formation 
 has changed. Marta has left the party, formation has changed. Marta has joined the party, formation 
 has changed. 
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brockbfball
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 11:01 pm PT
Review:  This is my first video game review, and it couldn't have been for a more underrated game. I'm going 
 to say right now that if you played and enjoyed the original Tales of Symphonia on the GameCube, 
 you should just go out right now and buy this game because you will love it, and it'll certainly 
 be worth more than just a rent for you. If you've never played the original, you'll still enjoy 
 this game, but there are many easter eggs and cameos that only those that have played the original 
 will understand and appreciate. If you own a Wii and are in the mood for a great RPG, then I'd 
 actually recommend buying the original first and playing through it then buying Dawn of the New 
 World and playing through that. Trust me when I say that it's really worth it.
  
  Before Tales of Symphonia: Dawn of the New World came out, I looked at the reviews of it. Just 
 to name a few...
  
  Gamespot: 6.5 
  IGN: 6.7 
  Gametrailers: 7.9 (not bad, but still) 
  
  I was worried seeing these scores, but when I read 
 the full reviews, they always talked about how the fighting was very similar to past games with 
 not too much added other than recruiting monsters. I'm still trying to figure out how this is a 
 bad thing. The other Tales games had the gameplay almost perfect, so why make any dramatic changes 
 to it. I'm apparently not the only one who thinks so because every game reviewing website I've 
 been too, the members rated the game MUCH higher than the site did.
  
  They did talk about how the story was very good and that the voice acting was also very good. In 
 all honesty, give me a good story in any game and I will play that game to the end regardless of 
 how bad the gameplay is. It does help though that the gameplay was also awesome.
  
  
  Well, here's my take on the game...
  
  Story: I really can't say enough about the story in 
 the game. Maybe it's because I don't play many RPGs or maybe because the first Tales of Symphonia 
 was one of my favorite games of last gen, but there were many times during this game that I would 
 continue to play late into the night simply because I wanted to see what would happen next to Emil 
 and Marta who, I might add, are adorable together. 
  
  In addition to the usually cut scenes throughout the game, in-game skits make a return. While roaming 
 around towns and temples, sometimes the game will give you the opportunity to hit the C button 
 and trigger skits starring the character that are currently in your party (check the bottom-left 
 hand corner of the screen for them) . These are often very humorous and also usually help the player 
 learn more about the characters and story.
  
  I'm not going to discuss the actual story in this review because I really don't want to spoil anything 
 for you, but there are very interesting characters to meet and relationships formed throughout 
 the game. You really care about these characters you meet (and you do even more so if you've played 
 and beaten the original) . It starts off kind of clichd (revenge, love, finding your true self) 
 but it becomes SO much more than that. Just give it a small amount of time and you'll easily see 
 what I'm talking about. Honestly, I would've been happy to just watch a movie version of this game 
 and it would have been better than many movies I've seen within the past few years. This story 
 really just sinks you in and makes you want to keep playing even if it's just to see what will 
 happen next in the story.
  
  
  Gameplay: If you've ever played another game in the Tales series, than you know what the gameplay 
 is basically like. You travel from town to town, talking with citizens, and visit temples while 
 solving puzzles until you get to the boss at the end of the temple. This is true for this game 
 as well, but it still works and I really see no reason to change it at all. A big difference from 
 the first game is the exclusion of an overworld map. In this game, when you leave a town or temple, 
 a list of the places you have visited and new places you can visit show up and you choose where 
 to go from there. This is either a good thing or a bad thing depending on if you enjoy traveling 
 from place to place fighting monsters or if you just want to get to where you want to go and just 
 fight monsters in temples. It does make the game go by more quickly, but it does cut out the traveling 
 time that many did not enjoy from the first game. For me, it really doesn't make a difference for 
 me either way.
  
  The battle system is actually more similar to Tales of Vesperia, for those of you who have played 
 it, but it still pretty similar to the original Tales of Symphonia. In addition to the features 
 in the original, you also have the ability to roam around the battlefield in all 360 degrees, not 
 just in a straight line. But the most unique addition to the game is easily the new monster-recruit 
 system where you can recruit monsters to fight for you. Throughout the game, you constantly gain 
 and lose members of your party, but monsters that you catch will always stay with you and fight 
 for you. As they increase in level and you have them evolve into stronger monsters, they can become 
 quite powerful and will become very important part of your party. This is a great addition, but 
 I must admit that I didn't really spend time trying to collect all the monsters during my first 
 run through since there was so much more to do in the game, but completionists will have fun fighting 
 and capturing monsters to complete their Pokedexwait, I mean Monster Journal :/.
  
  So really, not a whole lot has changed gameplay wise in this addition to the series, but that's 
 really more of a good thing than anything. Again, if you've liked the gameplay in previous games 
 in the series, then you'll like this one as well.
  
  
  Graphics: Better than the original. It doesn't exactly push the limits for the Wii, but it does 
 look very nice. The pre-rendered cut scenes look very nice. The cell shading for both the characters 
 and places have kind of a darker shade to them. I personally like the graphics more than the original, 
 but it all come down to your own opinion. Either way, graphics really don't make the game any better 
 or worse, so they really don't matter that much.
  
  
  Sound: This is where most reviewers seem to rate the game poorly. The music is a mixture of old 
 music that was redone for this game and new music. For the most part, I thought it was really good. 
 The old music holds nostalgia for fans of the first game, and the new music I thought was as good 
 as the original. Nothing groundbreaking or really memorable, but nothing that will make you want 
 to turn the music off.
  
  I have seen the voice acting being criticized. Personally, I thought the voice acting was very 
 good. Some people complain that Emil and Marta (especially Emil) can become rather annoying at 
 times, but I was never really annoyed. Yes, at first, Emil sounds whiney and pathetic, but that's 
 just his personality at the beginning of the game. He does eventually get more confidence, so just 
 hang in there if you can't stand him at first. I got annoyed with Collette in the first game after 
 the first 50 hours of listening to her, but in this game it was much better. Also, unlike the original 
 Tales of Symphonia, every skit in the game contains full voice acting. There was a lot of reading 
 in the first game if you wanted to see every skit, so this is a very welcome addition to this sequel. 
 In addition to this, many more minor scenes in the game also contain voice acting. The only reading 
 you really have to do, aside from maybe a few cut scenes here and there, are going from town to 
 town talking with the inhabitants.
  
  I'm kind of upset that most of the returning characters from the first game have new voice actors 
 doing the voices. However, most of the new voice actors sound close to, and sometimes sound almost 
 exactly like, the voices from the first game. There are two characters in particular where the 
 voice change is very noticeable, but that doesn't mean the voices are bad. They're just different, 
 and fans of the first game will just have to get used to the new voices. 
  
  
  Value/Replayability: It's true that this game is much shorter than the original, but it's not insanely 
 short either. I'm fairly experienced with the Tales series, so it didn't take me long at all before 
 I was comfortable with the battle system and could beat even some of the harder bosses without 
 having to constantly take time to level-up during the game. However, it still took me a good 30+ 
 hours to run through the game for the first time, but I was amazed by how much I missed during 
 that first play through. In addition to the main quest, there are a couple lengthy side quests 
 you may encounter (I missed them during my first play through) and also a travel log where you 
 can keep track of the monsters, recipes, and other things that you collect as you play. 
  
  After completing the game, you have the opportunity to spend your GRADE on certain upgrades where 
 you can play through the game again with difference conditions present (double experience, keep 
 the monsters from your previous game, etc) . Some players may only play through the game once and 
 that's it, but there is much more to do besides that. If you don't feel like playing through the 
 game again to see what you missed, then you should definitely check out youtube and search for 
 the secrets, side stuff, and cameos that you certainly don't want to miss. It may not have as long 
 of a main quest as the original Tales of Symphonia, but this game may have the same replay value 
 as the original.
  
  
  Conclusion: As I said in the first paragraph, if you've play the original Tales of Symphonia, you 
 shouldn't even be reading any reviews because I can assure you that you will love it. There aren't 
 many new additions to the gameplay, but what they did add is terrific, and it's true when they 
 say "If it ain't broke, don't fix it." The graphics and sound certainly do their jobs and don't 
 drag the game down in any way. There is also plenty here to keep you coming back for more even 
 after you finish the somewhat-lengthy main quest. All of this is great, but the single thing that 
 makes this game this great is the story. The story truly is a masterpiece. Even when you're not 
 playing this game, you'll be thinking about what will happen next to your character and his friends. 
 Sometimes you'll find yourself playing this game simply to continue on with the story. It really 
 is so amazingly well-written, that it just captures you until you finally reach the ending, which, 
 in my opinion, doesn't disappoint. Whether you've played the original Tales of Symphonia or not, 
 if you own a Wii, do yourself a huge favor and just go buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevinayP
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2009 11:26 am PT
Review:  I've never played Tales of Symphonia on the GameCube before, but I've always loved the Tales Franchise, 
 so I thought I'd give this one a try. Plus, I want a great JRPG game for my Wii. Please keep in 
 mind that I'm playing the Japanese version of this game, with the original cast including Kugimiya 
 Rie as Marta. My opinion on the English version of this game is really different, especially in 
 the sound departement, because of the horrible english dubbing. The English dubbing also made all 
 characters, especially the two main characters VERY annoying.
  
  Story: As I said, I've never played the original Tales of Symphonia on the GameCube before. So 
 I can't and won't compare it with this game. I've got to say I love the story in this game though. 
 It's long, and you'll be spending a lot of time looking at a cutscene. Even though I just said 
 it's long, it's still too short. I wish the game would've been longer. One interesting feature 
 I love in this game is that whenever you press C when standing and doing nothing, a box will pop 
 up and a random conversation between the characters in your party would come up. They'll talk about 
 the current situation and their graphics is anime-like. Sometimes they added a few humours in the 
 dialogue, which I must admit is pretty funny and made me press the C button all the time. The character's 
 expression would change according to their dialouge of the current situation.
  
  Gameplay: The battle system is awesome. It's real time, but you don't really have many attacks 
 to perform. A button's a normal attack, up to 3 combos. Joystick and B button's a normal Arte attack 
 (some kind of special attack) and C button is for a Unison attack. I just love the fact that it's 
 real time. There're no wild random encounters on dungeons. You can see the monsters instead, and 
 can choose to fight them or not. It's hard for levelling up, but I like it better than many random 
 encounters. They've added a Monster capture system, where you can capture a monster and train it, 
 feed it and make them fight in your party.
  
  Graphics: It's pretty good, but it doesn't push the Wii's limit. But it still looks great! Especially 
 on cutscenes and the characters.
  
  Sound: Many reviewers complain about the English Voice Acting of this game. And after hearing several 
 videos on the english dubbing, I've got to say it's really, really terrible. As for me, since my 
 Wii's Japanese, I got the Japanese version of this game, with the original casts such as Kugimiya 
 Rie as Marta (she's one of my favorite voice actresses ever, and she voiced Shana from the Shakugan 
 no Shana anime) . The original Japanese dubbing really fits the personality of each character. It's 
 really awesome, and sound is a big factor in this game since almost all cutscenes are voiced. As 
 for the game's soundtrack, it's pretty good. I love the opening theme.
  
  Characters: On an RPG game, characters are important. And I have to say that Emil (he's a really 
 shy and weak person at the start of the game) , the main character is annoying. Really annoying. 
 But I kind of got used to that. Marta is awesome (she's a kind of tsundere type of girl and talks 
 almost all the time) , so she covers the annoying Emil. Character development throughout the game 
 is superb. Character development is deep, which is important.
  
  This game turned out to be what I was really looking for. I love the story, I love the characters 
 and I love the voice acting. The characters grew on me. The game have many long cutscenes, which 
 I love. Overall this game gave me some 50 hours of fun. Definitely the best JRPG on the Wii. I'm 
 reccomending this game to anyone, even those who haven't played the original Tales of Symphonia. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vyse-the-Legend
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 1:03 pm PT
Review:  This game does not live up the expectations that I have after playing the original ToS. A few of 
 the things that I dislike about this game are raising monsters, somthing you must do if you have 
 any chance of succeeding in this game, only being free to control two characters, stun in battle 
 seems to pop up all of the time, and the fact that your main character, Emil, may quite possibly 
 be the biggest sissy in all of video games. This game is also shorter than most RPG's; you will 
 probably wrap things up in under 30 hours. Despite the fact that many of the new things that are 
 introduced are terrible this game has some incredible points and the main one is the story/dialogue 
 of the game. There is quite a bit of humor to the bonus scenes and I will admit that I laughed 
 quite a bit. The story also kept me on the age of my seat from about the first quarter of the game 
 on. The fact that this game has a great story gives it a little bit of a boost to make up for some 
 of the defects, but still if have to choose between this and the original, go with the original. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dantethayer1
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2009 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Hey everybody this is my first review for a game and i'm sure glad i picked this game for my first. 
 Well first the best thing about tales of symphonia is the voice acting was really well done marta 
 is really well acted and i fell in love with her character lol emil was sort of a softy to shy 
 and had a weird voice it but thats okay and the rest of the characters that i've seen so far have 
 fitted perfect. the battle system is simple but good they consist of just the basics buttons A 
 to slash and B and others to do the skill attacks. would have been nice to see some motion controls 
 for the attacks but never the less they were still really good. the graphics were excellent few 
 things i noticed like when the characters walk on stairs they just kinda slid down them instead 
 of walk but don't get me wrong most people wont notice it. gameplay in it is awesome the game and 
 the story are very addicting and you'll be playing this game non stop overall the game is a must 
 have and the best RPG on the Wii by far. get it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smash_King_
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2009 8:51 am PT
Review:  great game and great sequel. To me its not as good as the first one for a couple of reasons.
  
  1. the boss fights weren't as epic as in the first one.
  
  2. not enough hidden objectives/scenes.
 
  
  3. the map system was removed, which made traveling boring.
  
  4. some of the voice actors were replaced, such as Lloyd.
  
  5. you can only by equips for 
 Emil and Marta, the other previous game characters auto level up and have there equipment changed 
 based on which point in the game u reached.
  
  other then those reasons its a great game. The new characters are really cool, Emil, Marta, Richter 
 and etc.
  i wish Richter was playable threw out the whole game but its ok Emil is great to play. 
  
  
 The monster system is pretty cool but a lot of the monsters are repetitive and look the same.
 
  
  The katz aren't useless like in the other game, u can now do quest that give a lot of exp and good 
 rewards.
  
  synthesizing items its a great way to get ahead of the game, with a great synthesized weapon u 
 can deal tons of damage. but some of the synthesize items never appear when you need a new weapon. 
 and the shop weapons are weak
  
  Game spot gave the game the bad emblem for voice acting. i think the voice acting was decent. a 
 lot of familiar voices and a lot of cool new ones. Emil as ratatosk had the voice of Jonny Yong 
 Bosh a famous anime voice actor, which was pretty cool.
  
  The music was epic just like in the last game.
  
  overall i think it was a great RPG if u played 
 the first one its sure to be great and full of surprisingly old things that have remained in the 
 game. If you havnt played the first one but like RPG's i suggest you get this because you can follow 
 the story and its a fun game to play.
  (spoiler ahead)
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  then ending of the game made it possible for no sequels which isn't good but it was still a great 
 game. since the new world tree becomes useless because ratatosk makes it so the world doenst need 
 mana.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vexx88
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2009 11:25 pm PT
Review:  This is a DIRECT sequel to Tales of Symphonia on the Gamecube and PS2 (if you imported or you live 
 in Japan) . It takes place 2 years after the events of ToS. I won't delve into the story but lets 
 just say if you didn't beat ToS1 at least 20% of the plot you will not understand.
  
  Characters the old character still keep there charm from the last game. Emil at first you will 
 say: "Why am I playing as this weakling" but I'm sure you will come to love this guy later. He 
 is the main character this time around. Marta: she seems to be just a love interest to Emil.... and 
 that's basically her position through out the entire game but, she has some awesome moments as 
 well. The only real thing have against the characters this time around is that Lloyd has an entirely 
 different voice actor for this game. Which ruined part of the game for me right there.
  
  The gameplay is just like all other Tales. Real time on a 2d/3d plane and compared to ToS1 you 
 might thing the combat is lacking at first but it gets much better down the road especially once 
 you get Mystic arts later. Same classic Tales gameplay with puzzles. (only like 2 you really have 
 to worry about but still) The main problem is the length of the game I beat it in 25 hours but 
 honestly you could beat it in 20 without side quest with side quest probably 30 or 40 but not nearly 
 as much as the 80 hours ToS1 provided. The map is now point and click so.... not only do you not 
 get lost but it also takes away from the exploring aspect. IF you played ToS1 you will see a LOT 
 of areas from the first game.
  
  Sound is another somewhat disappointing aspect is the soundtrack its really rehashed from the first 
 game with like 4 new songs and 2 or 3 of the battle music is remixed. 
  
  Graphics are kinda well... they are better but almost the same. Random Frame rate in places but 
 its never during a fight and its not even major. Oh! Cutscenes definitely a lot more of them this 
 time around and more voice acting which is also good. The skits are hilarious as usual and give 
 insight on what the characters are thinking.
  
  Overall the game is a good sequel to the first game and fans can find a good amount to enjoy. If 
 you didn't play the first one don't even bother you probably wont even enjoy it unless you completely 
 understand the story. Also I wouldn't say buy it, definitely a rent though but because of the length 
 and all of the old areas it almost feels like a glorified expansion pack to a PC game or something. 
 Still a fun game though.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: psyco_kirby
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2009 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of a New World is one of the very few RPG's on the Nintendo Wii platform. Dawn of A New World 
 has some great game play just like the other games from the Tales franchise, All though this game 
 play does seem to feel very repetitive at times, and seem to grow old.
  The story, is okay. It will feel very "cheesy" and boring during most scenes. On the other hand, 
 During some moments, the story does draw you in. Characters are memorable and have that exact same 
 Tales Of Symphonia Feel. Exact same.
  Dawn of a New World's visuals are the exact same as the first in the series, exact same. There 
 is absolutley no difference. And also, i saw some some slight graphical issues when to many things 
 were on the gameplay screen.
  The world map was changed in a way some people may like, and some people may not like. Its now 
 some type of click-and-go kind of thing, where you choose a place on the map, and you automatically 
 go there. It save's plenty of time, but we know from the past, it was always a great way to get 
 around, battling monsters in between places.
  Overall, if you want a game that will last you some time, or if you like RPG's and own a wii, definitely 
 buy this game. It it great ;] .... With a few issues 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kryu88
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 11:10 pm PT
Review:  Tales of Symphonia was one of the best RPGs to come out on the long forgotten Gamecube, and it 
 has a large fan-base that has been itching for a sequel to one of the best RPGs of the last generation 
 of consoles. Dawn of the New World made a nice attempt to develop the story of the Symphonia universe, 
 but ultimately fell short with a couple of unlikable main characters and a monster recruiting system 
 that really wasn't all that necessary, along with other annoyances. The lack of depth in the world 
 also makes for a less entertaining experience. But, hey, it'll make you want to play the original 
 again.
  
  It's two years after Lloyd and the gang saved the world from destruction and joined the two world 
 into one. However, not all is peachy in the world. Tyranny and chaos runs rampant, people are oppressed, 
 and monsters run wild. You are put in the shoes of the self-conscious coward that is Emil, whose 
 parents were murdered in the Blood Purge of Palmacosta; which was lead by.... Lloyd?! Emil is moved 
 to the town of Luin to live with his Aunt and Uncle, who abuse him and treat him like leftover 
 trash. Emil meets a young girl named Marta, who is on the run from a rebel organization, and he 
 gets caught up in a mess to save the chaotic new world.
  
  Really, the story of the original Symphonia is told quite well before you really begin, so new 
 players won't feel confused. But this also means the first hour or so of the game is rather boring 
 and very text heavy. The two new main characters in Emil and Marta, aren't really all that likable 
 and will make you want to know when Lloyd and the others will show up so you can get these two 
 to stop talking all the time. Emil comes off as a weak boy who can't fend for himself -- if you've 
 seen Neon Genesis: Evangelion, he's basically a Shinji clone -- and is hiding behind a wall of 
 apologies, and Marta is a pushy little girl who never shuts up. Overall, the story seems to be 
 stretched out a bit to connect to the story of the original and isn't all that interesting. Players 
 will just want to see the old Symphonia gang and play as them again.
  
  The combat doesn't feel as smooth and refined as in the previous entries into the series either. 
 The combat in Tales of the Abyss is probably the closest the series will get to outrageously fun 
 combat. The "Free Run" ability was added at the start, but the rest of the combat doesn't feel 
 as rewarding as in the other games. It's harder to pull of combos with your allies to deal more 
 damage and your allies can't really take care of themselves either. You're probably going to be 
 using a lot of Life Bottles to bring back your fallen comrades, because the AI doesn't seem as 
 smart as before. 
  
  The Unison Attack almost feels useless as not everybody can attack all the time when you initiate 
 it. There is a Element Grid in the lower left hand corner of the screen that displays what element 
 is dominant on the battlefield at the moment. Depending on what monsters you have in your party, 
 and what element is dominant on the battlefield, it may just be you doing a Unison Attack, which 
 is pretty stupid considering it is a "Unison" attack. The Element Grid changes as different magic 
 is used. The more a particular element is cast, the more likely it'll become the dominant element 
 on the field. It just adds more work to pull off a powerful Unison Attack, where as before you 
 just had to set them in the menu and press a certain button.
  
  The Monster Recruiting system also feels like a rather big waste of time. You can get through most 
 of the game by only using a couple of monsters, as they level up faster than you do, but they're 
 not all that effective in combat compared to when you have some of the original cast of Symphonia 
 in your party. And honestly, if you're a fan of Symphonia, you're going to use the original Symphonia 
 characters anyway. Though there are points where you have to use your monsters in combat, so if 
 you don't have a few leveled up a bit, you're going to be in trouble. This felt like a cheap way 
 of forcing the player to use their monsters over the superior Symphonia characters. You can feed 
 the monsters to increase their stats and allow them to change class, but then they start out at 
 level 1 again -- like in Disgaea -- so it's not really worth it.
  
  The graphics have had a slight upgrade, but not to the level of other RPGs out on the market. The 
 areas have about as much detail as they did in the original Symphonia -- which wasn't all that 
 much, pretty bland and texture-less -- , but the characters do have a bit more detail and realism. 
 The graphics in the battles aren't all that impressive either. The detail on the spells is rather 
 lacking and basic compared to even the original which is almost 5 years old now.
  
  The world map was reduced to a point and click, compared to the original which had a world you 
 could run around in and explore new areas. This limits the depth of the world and makes the journey 
 feel less epic and interesting. Discovering new areas and crossing a continent on the journey was 
 part of what made the original Symphonia so charming, but this just makes the game go by faster 
 and doesn't allow the player to get immersed in the world.
  
  The voice acting for this game also feels rather bleh at times. The cast of the original Symphonia 
 isn't here -- except for Cam Clarke, Kratos, who does the introduction -- and it feels weird hearing 
 different voices come out of those familiar faces. The new cast didn't do a horrible job, but the 
 soul of the characters just felt missing at times. The soundtrack is nostalgic and makes you feel 
 like you're back in the Symphonia world at times. In other words, the soundtrack is enjoyable to 
 listen to.
  
  It was nice to see Tales Studio create a sequel to a Tales of game. I just wish their attempt had 
 been a little better, especially for the most popular Tales of game in series. If you're a fan 
 of the original, this isn't a bad buy, but isn't completely worth it. You could probably rent the 
 game and beat it in a few days, as it's about half as long as the original, around 20 hours or 
 so. If you're not a fan of the series, or Symphonia, then this is an RPG you can afford to pass 
 up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roxol
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Well, i finally got my mits on this game and Im surprised how much i warmed up to this game. I 
 originally played this a little with my friend and thought it was plain old shovel ware. However, 
 though i miss the longer play time and world map, the battle system is pure genius. I am partially 
 annoyed with the Coming and going of all the original cast but the story line Made that pretty 
 tolerable, even though you could not be one of the original cast unless you manually did it at 
 the start of each battle or were simply player 2. The story only starts to fall together Toward 
 the end of the game but once you get it all you say to yourself, "OOH so that's how that happened" 
 or "Wow, that's pretty cool". All in all, this game was a disappointment to its predecessor but 
 still one of the best RPG's on the Wii. If they make a 3rd I truly hope the don't remove, but simply 
 bring back. However with how this game ended, i doubt there will be a 3rd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunkKid44
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  In 2003, Nintendo gamers (who were then playing the game-cube) finally got the chance to experience 
 a long, emotional and epic RPG: Tales of Symphonia.
  The instant success of the game brought on many follow-ups, including; Tales of the Abyss and Tales 
 of Vesperia. 
  Though these games were absolutley amazing, they did not sell as well as the classic Symphonia.
 
  
  And now, (finally) Nintendo will see another Tales game; Tales of Symphonia: Dawn of the New World. 
 
  It may not be a mothership title, but it is a spin-off, bringing back all we love from Symphonia, 
 and making it better.
  
  
  The game starts with Emil, one of two main protagonists. Emil lost his parents in the blood-purge 
 (an attack on Palmacosta) to Lloyd Irving, the main protagonist from the last game.
  Emil is a quiet boy who is very annoying at first because he is extremely whiny and apologises 
 a lot.
  
  Emil soon meets Marta. She is a girl who loves him deeply and carries the Lord of all monsters, 
 Ratatosk, on her forehead.
  
  They also travel with Centurion Tenebrae, who gives you the power to capture monsters and use them 
 in battle as party members. (More to that later...)
  
  The story revolves mostly on discovering the truth about Lloyd and finding all the Centurion's 
 cores (who's slumber is causing drastic climat change) .
  
  
  Gameplay works like a basic RPG; you walk around world, shop, engage in story sequences (that are 
 almost entirely voiced) and battle.
  
  Dawn of the New World uses the same battle system as in past Tales games. In real time, you control 
 a character (not monsters) , move around freely, attack, use special attacks called 'artes' and 
 use other kinds of special moves.
  It is an engaging system that is very fun and that requires thought and smart moves.
  
  During 
 a battle you have an 'elemental grid'. If you match the big circle and four little circles of the 
 grid in the same element, you can try to capture a monster. Monsters then join your party, and 
 you can evole them, feed them, equip skills and teach artes to them. 
  
  But you will also be joined by past Tales characters. They will join your party, but you can only 
 equip skills for them. They do not level up and you cannot change their equipment.
  
  
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  | SCORES: |
  | 
 |
  | Gameplay: 10/10 |
  | Story: 9.5/10 |
  | Music: 9/10 |
  | Graphics: 9/10 |
  | |
  | OVERALL: 10/10 |
  | |
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Thanks for reading :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuubyyi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Very good game, except for the length. The cut-scenes are to lengthy, and take up allot of the 
 time. Sometimes its hard to follow with the story line if you havent played the first game. One 
 great thing for retuning Tales of Symphonia fans is the return of all the original characters, 
 but most dont show up until later. Another thing is seeing what happend after the end of the first 
 game. Voice acting does't realy matter to me, but I would rather have had the original voice actors. 
 Some of the scenes are just plain cheesy but you'll get over it after a while. The battle system 
 is very easy to get learned. You can also have monsters that you form pacts with that will help 
 you fight which is very helpful in hard fights. You just have to spend time in in the menu changing 
 around spell shortcuts. This is a great game and I suggest you get it if you liked any other games 
 in the Tales series or you just like a good 3-D fighting RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yodas_Boy
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  Symphonia 2 is an all around enjoyable game on the Nintendo Wii. It is a worthy spin-off of the 
 original Symphonia, and is guaranteed to please fans of the first game, although it is lacking 
 in certain aspects.
  
  Visually speaking, the game has been given a significant upgrade over its predecessor - polygon 
 counts are higher, textures have a higher resolution, animations are improved, and character models 
 have also been improved and updated. Although it's nice to see a step up from the original Symphonia, 
 this spin-off is still a far cry from better looking Wii games like Metroid Prime 3 or Mario Galaxy.
 
  
  As for the audio, Symphonia 2's soundtrack and voice work are generally well done. For example, 
 all of the towns' music tracks have been redone (still essentially the same, just done better) 
 and sound spectacular, and most of the voice work is solid. On the downside, there aren't many 
 memorable new tracks, and some of the voice work (Zelos in particular) is not terribly well executed.
 
  
  The gameplay seen here is pretty much standard Tales gameplay, nothing terribly different from 
 what we've seen before. The combat is handled by the same battle system used for Tales of the Abyss, 
 which is a very good thing, and, unlike in Abyss, all of its features are fully unlocked at the 
 beginning of the game (for example, being able to run freely on the battlefield) . When not in battle, 
 the player will be going through scenes of dialogue, and wandering around towns and dungeons with 
 the goal of advancing the plot.
  
  The leveling system used in Symphonia 2 works well; you'll gradually unlock new skills and artes, 
 as well as raise your general stats, simply by fighting and gaining experience. You can recruit 
 monsters to fight alongside you, and can level them up and give them new abilities. At every town 
 you can shop, buy new weapons and accessories, and can go on side-quests given by the Katz.
  
  I loved the first Symphonia, and this game leaves me with generally good, but mixed, feelings. 
 I loved being able to see all my favourite old characters and locations. I loved the soundtrack, 
 and I loved getting to have my new characters fight side by side with the original cast. In addition, 
 all throughout your journey, you keep hearing references to the original game, such as "... but 
 then Lloyd and his friends killed him..." which is really cool. On the other hand, I was frustrated 
 at how short the game was - I was at the end at about 30 hours, which is considerably shorter than 
 the first Symphonia. Also, the point and click format of travelling (as opposed to freely wandering 
 outside of towns) made the world seem much smaller and more restricted, and it also removes the 
 incentive to go exploring, and removes the feeling that you're in a big and exciting world. 
  
  Finally, my biggest gripe with the game is that you are not given full control over the original 
 cast. Your favourite original characters will not reliably be in your party until you reach the 
 end of the game. You cannot level up the original characters, you cannot change their equipment, 
 and you can't even make them your avatar, or set them to be your default character in battle. These 
 details prevent you from feeling truly reunited with your old characters, and it's heart breaking 
 to know that with a few changes, all of this could have been avoided. On the bright side, however, 
 the original cast are featured prominently in all the dialogue interactions, skits, storyline, 
 and so on, so you definitely get to see them a lot, for what that's worth.
  
  All in all, despite its flaws detailed above, Symphonia 2 is still a solid RPG in its own right, 
 and is a real nostalgic treat for fans of the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamePhreakMax
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  I just finished playing Tales of Symphonia and I have to say I was very disappointed! And I have 
 to say, I am pondering weather or not I want to go through it again to get titles and clean all 
 the side quests, which is something I never did before in regards to a Tales series game.
  
  When I first heard that Tales of Symphonia was getting a sequel I was ecstatic! I was looking 
 forward to so many things, but to my surprise, not even a fraction of those were presented to me. 
 
  
  
  I will start by saying some of the main character related things I was looking forward to, or some 
 other things I just want to complain about... ^_^ :
  
  First of all I was excited to be seeing and playing as all of the old characters, which yes, they 
 did have in Tales of Symphonia 2 (I have to at least give the game that) , but none of the returning 
 characters could level up or gain experience! I can see why they made the game like that, to avoid 
 creating new skills and artes, but honestly, that's just laziness to the maximum. The main disadvantage 
 of the inability to level up is that by the time the returning character joins the party, chances 
 are, you have monsters that are far above the level of the returning characters, and the monster 
 probably will have more skills, and artes too. The only time I was able to put a returning character 
 in the battling part of my party was just after I leveled up a monster and there stats had been 
 reset to that of a level 1 (and even then most of the time I had extra monsters in my party or 
 with the Katz Katz that were more useful then the returning characters. Another fault that the 
 returning character's suffered from, was the inability to start off as the controlled character 
 when playing as one character (haven't tried playing the game with 2+ Players so I don't know if 
 they are able to start off as controlled characters in that situation, if they can't that are officially 
 useless.. lol) . Another thing that annoyed me about the main characters is the fact they cannot 
 have items equipped to them, this doesn't make them anymore useless. Its just kind of of a let 
 down. 
  
  Another thing I was looking forward to, but didn't have my heart set on (mainly due to the fact 
 that Regal was one of my least favorite Tales of Symphonia character) , was using Regal without 
 his shackles, and his being able to use his hands for fighting. Sadly, this was not the case. Even 
 thought, in Tales of Symphonia you clearly saw that Regal could kick some major ass with his hands, 
 yet he does not use his hands to battle in Tales of Symphonia 2. Why? I don't quite know. Regal 
 encountered Alicia in Tales of Symphonia 1 and she told him that she forgave him, and to take off 
 the shackles. He did that, but for some reason he still refuses to use his hands? Quit being stubborn 
 Regal! Alicia forgave you for frick sakes! As for the rest of the characters fighting styles, both 
 Raine, and Genis, fought the same, (although without the ability to level up, they both suck because 
 the spells they can use are very limited) although I have to say the animation for Genis was very 
 cheep, and his movement graphics were better in Number 1. Zelos, Collette, Presea and Lloyd fighting 
 styles are mainly the same and are nothing to complain about. Sheena, on the other hand, has had 
 a down grade of epic proportions. She is slow, super slow. Even in Tales of Symphonia 1, you have 
 to wonder, 'How can a ninja/assassin not be able to run three times faster then all the other characters?', 
 but in number 2, her speed is equal, if not lower, then that of Genis and Raine. Sheena was my 
 favorite character in Tales of Symphonia 1, and I almost cried when I saw how much they butchered 
 her.
  
  I had heard that not all the voice actors were returning for there original roles, which is expected. 
 But only two of the voice actors returned, and Kratos only had a handful of lines at the very beginning 
 of the story. I think when they advertised "not all the voice actors were returning" they should 
 have been a little more truthful, but this doesn't really make the game any worse. I am glad, that 
 Collette was able to keep her same voice actor. And everyone else's voice is anywhere from good 
 to passable with regards to matching the characters personality, but I have to say, the script 
 is not very well written, read, or translated, I can't tell which. Sheena says her lines very stuck 
 up, or she sounds as if she is always mad, and giving someone heck for no reason. Presea, sounds 
 more like she did before she was free from her cruxious crystal, rather then after. And Genis, 
 as well as Sheena sounds stuck up and less innocent then in the first one. Everyone else's lines 
 are said as they should be other then the occasional monotone line. 
  
  
  Next thing on the list to complain about, the story line and the new main characters:
  
  Honestly, 
 I have no problem with most of the main characters, even thought Emil seems to be quite hated, 
 I thought it was a nice break, having a main character that wasn't brave, or strong, or a naturally 
 born leader. I find Marta can be annoying at times, but to me she is just as good a character as 
 Collette, Mint, or Tear. Alice, I like quite a bit. I enjoy it when cute girls with a dark side 
 are the enemies. Decus, could use some work as a character, and could loose the "au de seduction" 
 witch was a constant joke throughout the whole game, but I have no major tiffs with him. Alice's 
 and Decus exit from the game was a little sappy, but none the less good! Richter, on the other 
 hand, was like a wanna be Kratos with glasses. I didn't much like Kratos in Tales of Symphonia 
 1 to begin with, and Richter seems to be just an uglier, less interesting, copy cat (was once and 
 ally, turned to enemy, red hair with purple clothes, can use magic healing artes and battle techniques, 
 ends up being good in the end (this only happens in tales of Symphonia 2 if you get the right ending 
 but regardless) , ect ect) .
  
  The story was... err .... Creative, yes, that's the word I'll use. It seemed to lack the structure 
 and interest that Symphonia 1 had. The centurion cores seemed to be very dull replacements for 
 the summon sprits from Tales of Symphonia 1, witch didn't appear in the game (I AM VERY UPSET ABOUT 
 THAT BTW) , other then the part when Tenebre turned into Celsius to distracts the guards in Altamera 
 (and even then Celsius was not described as a summon spirit, but just as a hot lady. So if you 
 never played Symphonia number 1, chances are you would not have noticed that any summon spirits 
 were in Tales of Symphonia number 2) . The story told you where you had to go and when you had to 
 go there. Most towns could not be selected to travel to if you didn't have to go there (that was 
 lame) ; this made things such as the coliseum kind of clichd and useless. That is all I'm going 
 to say for the story line, since there are obviously an unlimited amount of flaws, lol. 
  
  
  Next are some things that I am not disappointed that the game didn't include or did include:
 
  
  Kuchinawa was not included, I was hoping would return and have a side quest with Sheena or something. 
 I liked his character.
  
  The summon spirits hardly made the story line, I mean come on! Sheena can't even use them in battle? 
 Make her a little more useless why don't you?!
  Chocolate had a very small role, being a background character that had no lines other then ones 
 that would have to walk up to her and press the (A) Button for. I was hoping she would get involved 
 somehow especially since her story is so similar to Emil's with the beginning hatred for Lloyd 
 because he killed someone important to them. 
  
  Stupid Tales of the Abyss enemies were added! *COUGH* Gamat *COUGH*. 
  
  
  Despite all the 
 things I said about the game, I did enjoy the sequel and I have to say it was a worth while game, 
 and I don't regret buying it. I just think maybe it's a game that is good for a run through, but 
 then you put it aside to play Tales of Vesperia. Chances are, if this was not a part of the Tales 
 series I would have not bought it.
  
  
  All together:
  
  6.5/10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: togo2828
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  So I'm a heavy fan of the Tales Series in general right. Symphonia was my favorite mainly because 
 i loved the characters. This game is good in my book, You don't have the summons anymore but that 
 wasn't a big issue for me because i never really used them anyway. I did like the fact that when 
 you needed to go some place it just took you there. Because in Symphonia i got lost more times 
 than i can count. It did take me a few minutes to figure out in order to get sufficiant training 
 you would have to do quests, and follow the games story.
  
  Another good addition in place of the summons was the monster aspect. I have raised at least 3 
 good monsters and they come in more handy sometimes than the other actual playable characters. 
 I make sure that my monsters can take down another monster one on one so i know that they are good. 
 
  
  The gameplay is solid, the story makes somewhat sense, mainly only the the Tales Games. I like 
 the graphics and I love most of the charcters. I only have 3 problems with the game.
  1. Why did they change the voice acting, it is taking me some time to get used to the new voices. 
 Especially Lloyds (but it's not a major issue)
  2. Emil makes me me madder than all Heck, he is so meek and timid it just makes me upset to play 
 as him. His ratatosk mode is great and i have no problem with him then though. 
  3. Some times the game will take forever loading for like a 3 second stint or battle. They should 
 get on that. 
  
  But over all i love the game a lot, and I am satisfied with it. I understand that it isn't a new 
 game in the tales series so i wasn't expecting to much, but i'm happy with the product though. 
 Can't wait for the Next One Namco Keep it up guys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: animenerd2000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 6:35 am PT
Review:  Tales of Symphonia II (Dawn of the New World) is a game worth the money. Be sure that you have 
 already played the first game before you shell out the cash to get it. This game mainly answers 
 questions that the first game asked then left unanswered.
  The main improvement in this game is the battle system. It is utterly amazing how smoothly battles 
 flow. The also have a great soundtrack that seems to fit every emotion that the game has from epic 
 battle music to sad, depressing music but all of it fits the situation. A nice addition to the 
 sequel is the ability of aerial combat. In the first game you could pull off maybe three hits in 
 the air if you were lucky. Now, you have the option to pull off massively long combos in mid-air. 
 In the game I can regularly pull off a 13-hit combo.
  The only thing that I saw in the game that I thought was flawed was the pre-battle loading screens. 
 They take what seems to be an eternity to load a simple battle.
  I also think that other players of the first game will not miss the Ex-Sphere customization. That 
 was way too confusing and hard to find the right combination. Another new and totally astonishing 
 addition is the ability to capture monsters and make them fight for you. This aspect is like a 
 cooler version of Pokemon. I highly recommend this game for any who have played the first Tales 
 game and like I said beforeif you haven't played the first gamedon't even think about playing 
 this one because you won't have a clue what is going on. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ponedore
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  
  
  We all know all the love-hate this game has created among the critics, but lest face it, its not 
 revolutionary, fails in some aspects, but STILL its a good game to play and its really addictive 
 and.. just fun to play.
  
  It fails to develop something new, the gameplay is old and gets really repetitive, -specially in 
 the quests, they are so boring sometimes-, graphically, well, if a game could scream "Yes, I'm 
 running in a "two-game-cubes-ducked-taped" this is one of them, as it completely fails to develop 
 a newer feel and, also a newer look. It looks like ToS1 with sharper graphics, the wii can do better, 
 but this, was just plain lazy, (If the game was supposed to be like this, to give it a feel like 
 you are playing the previous one, they did a great job.) Its not even near galaxy-ish nor prime-ish 
 graphics, those games, I have to say, set a minimum in what the next wii games should look.
  
  After all, it has a great plot (of course if you played the las one, you will love this one.) 
 It just feels, in my humble opinion, like a ToS v1.1 not really a sequel.
  
  I would recommend it, if, ONLY if, like me, are a fan of this series and of course, a fan of the 
 Game Cube version.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreenBerserker
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  this game is too good. In my opinion, it does not deserve a 6.5. I think it should at least get 
 an 8.5. The game goes back to the places in ToS1 but in a harder version of the place. At times 
 it can be really confusing, but once you get passed the confusing part, the boss can give trouble. 
 For this Game, stratgey is necessary. The Story line is quite interesting. So far, what I do know 
 is that llyod is a murderer that killed The main Character ( Emil ) parents. And im not going to 
 gice out anymore information because it would sorta of be a spoiler. So, this is really a good 
 game, the battle stlye is really easy to understand, but the only problem i have with it is the 
 multiplayer, but i figure it out. you must press the 2 button on your wii mote when you are battling. 
 I still will have to try though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kushari1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Tales of Symphonia: Dawn of the New World is a direct sequel to Tales of Symphonia. It isn't great 
 for those who haven't played the first, but is overall good, in my opinion.
  
  The graphics was kind of annoying at first, but was easy to get used to. The unique graphic style 
 made it a very enjoyable game. It showed detailed character emotions and the mouths were matched 
 quite well. (Though there were some major mess-ups from time to time) Also, seeing the old Symphonian 
 characters return in better graphics was pretty cool. However, the changing of the voices was ear-bleeding 
 inducing at first. It takes some time to get used to them if you've played the first.
  
  The story was a little different, and slightly conflicting to the original game, but was pretty 
 good. The complications and surprises were easy to predict, but others left you playing all night. 
 The battle style complimented the story as well. The elemental grid thing was an interesting addition, 
 allowing you to make pacts with monsters to increase you abilities. Also the skills, which could 
 be turned on and off, allowed you to customize some of your characters abilities. 
  
  I am kind of annoyed that they never told us the name of the Great Tree, but it doesn't really 
 matter.
  
  I really enjoyed this game, and it's a must play for any Tales fan!
  
  (This is my first review, so sorry if it's rookieish  _ ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidum
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  Tales of Symphonia: Dawn of the new world, is a linear JRPG games that is the sequel to the original 
 game. Basically, it features new characters, and a horde of enemies, but it really doesn't do much 
 more than repeat the same formula over and over again, just like what Bandai has been doing over 
 the past 5 years. You can even say that this series is very tiring, especially when compared to 
 the vastly superior game, Tales of vesperia. 
  
  Story: This is basically the sequel to Tales of Symphonia, as it is about some world falling into 
 darkness and you basically have to set things right for the humanity. Nothing really new to see 
 here, at all. (5/10) 
  
  Graphics: Basically the same graphics that were in Symphonia, only Symphonia was like 5 years older 
 than this. Tales of vesperia had more detailed gfx, and excellent character design to go along 
 with, something this game purely lacks. Still, good anime-like feeling gets to me sometimes. (6/10) 
 
  
  Sound: Remixed music and some new songs, but it doesn't help much considering that it's too similar 
 to Tales of Symphonia. The english voice acting sucks enough for people to turn off the game. (I 
 know I did) . (5/10) 
  
  Gameplay: Like the past 5 years, this game lets you fight multiple groups of enemies, while gaining 
 experience and new items to take on harder enemies. The bosses in dungeons seem frequent, and appear 
 unexpectedly, and while things like this are good for some games, it definitely puts off a negative 
 impact on this game as a result, unfortunately. Add that with stereotypical characters and repetitive 
 combat system, and you've got yourself a game that doesn't give off the bang for its buck. If you're 
 a Tales fan, you would probably enjoy this game, as it features everything that is standard for 
 a Tales game. (5.5/10) 
  
  Lasting appeal: After you beat the game, which is just about 20-25 hours of gameplay, there's really 
 no reason to go back to it again. (Vesperia was about twice as long as this.) If you're a tales 
 fan, sure, go ahead, but for the rest of us, you should probably do yourselves a favor and stay 
 away from this mess. (4/10) 
  
  (Note that this is my personal review. It does not affect other people's opinion in any way, although 
 for some people.....) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CamiKitten
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the Namco Bandai Tales series for a little while now. Owning, Tales of Symphonia, 
 Tales of the World: Radient Mythology, Tales of the Abyss and Tales of Legendia ~ I was excited 
 about a sequel to it's Game Cube predecessor. It left me wondering where the rest of it went.
 
  
  The story goes on about a young boy named Emil from Palmacosta who's life was turned totally upside 
 down when our hero from the first Symphonia game supposedly killed his parents and pretty much 
 majority of the town. Being one of the few to survive he flees to his auntie and uncles home, and 
 they take him in resentfully. They consider him an embarassment to the family and fear he brought 
 in the slew of monsters that have started attacking residential areas. So needless to say our new 
 fearless warrior is actually a scardycat and completely timid around absolutely everyone. Complete 
 with the ever present "I'm sorry" that you can hear from at least one girl character from all the 
 other Tales games. But this time, yes, it's the guy. And the main character at that. 
  
  Trying to leave as much story out as possible now. But during the beginning of all this he meets 
 a girl named Marta, who in turn had her mother killed by our heroine from the previous Tales game, 
 Collette. Oh my how the tables have turned this time around! Anyway these two become fast friends 
 and start out trying to track down Lloyd and Collete and basically try to revenge family deaths 
 as well as revive and age old god of monsters, Ratatosk. We'll leave it at that. Go play the game 
 yourselves mooches!
  
   Story ~ Well lets just say there's a lot of it. Amidst a lot of your gameplay you're going to 
 be constantly stopped by numerous cutscenes. This seems to slow down the fact that you want to 
 go into battle flinging your sword. And the telltale other way Namco likes to put story and random 
 conversations between characters is to have the C button option so that your characters pop up 
 in manga style art squares and chat with each other. This has always been fun for me even tho you 
 can't possible walk around anywhere during these clips. But it gives you more of a feeling for 
 the characters and their backgrounds. It makes it... more personal. Yeah.
  
   Gameplay ~ I'm almost disappointed in the gameplay for Tales of Symphonia this time around. It's 
 a very watered down version of all it's predecessors, which were more inclusive and detailed. You 
 don't have the free roam battle map system where you could get random encounters and lvl up that 
 way. It's a straight forward map, which I guess couldn't be so bad if you're the easily lost type 
 or refuse to look at a gaming page like gamefaqs to make sure you're going the right direction.
 
  
  The battle system is definately watered down too, because it's just lacking all the previous elements 
 that made the orginal superb. First of all, it's really hard I guess to make a more inclusive attacking 
 sequence with the Wiimote and nunchuck. You can just run up and smack the A button repeatedly to 
 perform a 3 hit combo. You use the joystick on the nunchuck and the B button to use your small 
 variety of arts. And when your bottom gauge is passed the half mark or all the way full, you hit 
 the C button to perform a higher arcane attack either alone or with one or 2 of the party members 
 nearby. But that attack always looks the same, even tho up at the top it clearly states the name 
 of the special artes move you just did. That's graphically disappointing to me. There's nothing 
 else to spectacular about the battle system either. The characters are given a limited amount of 
 options about where they should stand in the party or who they should attack. There is no real 
 extensive tweaking of artes.
  
   Graphics ~ Well since most of the game takes places in the same areas as the original a lot of 
 the graphics feel similar. No one really tried to test the Wii's limits on this game. But even 
 with that it still looks good.
  
  Overall it's still a decent game. I probably wouldn't recommend it to someone who hasn't played 
 the first one for the GameCube simply because the story would be a little hard to follow. But then 
 again it has a beginning feel to with the fighting style so it's almost a toss up. I hope anyone 
 else who does play it enjoys it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninwin99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  To start things off, i have never played a tales game before, but being a huge rpg fan i was very 
 excited for this game. The reviews kinda dampened my excitement but i decided to get the game anyway, 
 and i'm so glad that i did! This is easily one of the most enjoyable and addictive games that i 
 ever played, and although i never played the first tales of symphonia, i have very few complaints 
 about the game. The battle system is fun and strategic, the storyline is very engrossing, the script 
 and cutscenes are well done and very funny, and there's so much to do in this game. I'm only on 
 chapter 4 as i write this review, and have already logged 25hrs. 
  If you are new to this series like me, but is thinking of getting this game, i highly recommend 
 it. The choices of quality rpg's for the wii is very thin, and this one is definitely a quality 
 rpg that will hook you for dozens of hours on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lanceblod
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  People tend to go with the critic opinion rather than just making their own, this game is way better 
 the you may think.
  The previous game was a total success so people started to wait too much from tales II, but what 
 many dont understand is that this game is as good as the previous, and the similarity of the game 
 is what make it so good.
  
  The game starts rather slow, and boring, but you get the hang pretty fast, since the fighting mode 
 is interesting and the history reminds you of Tales I.
  If you were looking for an refined adult-looking history, you have come to the wrong place, this 
 game is filled with child-like conversations and moral. But hey, all manga/anime looking games 
 have non mature history and are as great as any.
  
  As you play, you come in contact with creatures that you can capture, thou its kind of hard at 
 the beginning you get the hang and it become quite addictive. The storyline flows quite smoothly 
 and you become one with the Rattatosk quest.
  
  I wont give any spoilers but the ending is quite all right, not an I-will-always-remember-ending. 
 but it depends on how you play the game so when you finish you have to and the game in all the 
 ways.
  
  So my final opinion to this game is: Its a really under appreciated game and has a lot of potential, 
 I finished it in 3 days, and it is a 35h game, so you can sense how it is addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uglypinkmoose
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 1:25 am PT
Review:  The game has tons of stuff symphonia fans will recognize and love.. but if you have never played 
 the first one you wont get a lot of the humor and fun in all the cutscenes and skits in the game.... 
 i loved the game but then i thought, if i hadn't ever played the first one... i think i would have 
 hated it.. i mean the combat is wonderfull and if your the kinda person that doesn't pay attention 
 to the drama in games you will love it... but so much of the games enjoyment relies on weather 
 you expierianced the last game or not... the first game is definitely better.. and i think some 
 people who did play the first one may be disspointed as well.. the game is pretty short for what 
 it is... the world is no longer explorible which takes a lot from the fun in my opinion.. the first 
 game had tons of secrets.. this one has hardly any.. the old characters voices mostly chaged although 
 i think they did a decent job... and i like the old graphics better... some of the characters just 
 look odd with these new ones..
  in gamespots review they talked a lot of crap about the cutscenes and voice acting but i enjoyed 
 both... i think their funny and the voice acting is pretty well done... the only thing that sucks 
 is when you die on a boss you have to go through the cutscene before it again but that shouldn't 
 happen often the game is fairly easy... i think through the whole game i only died 2 times and 
 both those times were on the final boss due to my buddy AI peeps being dumb..... if your a tales 
 fan for the combat this game would be great for you
  you can get enemies pretty high up in the air in battle and i found it pretty fun
  thats all 
 i have to say
  but if you have a wii i suggest you find tales of symphonia on the gamecube and play that first 
 if you havn't already... even if your not interested in this game because you cant go wrong with 
 the first game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mist13
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 2, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Tales of Symphonia Radiant dawn is one of the biggest gaming disappointments in the Wiis and the 
 Tales series. For a while, I thought that this was the game that would finally pry me away from 
 my Xbox. Alas, i was dead wrong. The are a lot of glaring problems with this game. First off, where 
 the hell is the world map. this little menu to travel to the next city is garbage. In my opinion, 
 not including a world map in this game is just flat out lazy. Because every other Tales game has 
 a vast world map. Also, what is up with this capturing other monsters for your party. This feature 
 is ridiculous and unwanted. It just seemed like they creators wanted add something new, which would 
 be nice, but this feature fell way short of making the game more appealing. And why did this game 
 have to be placed in the same cities as the first, but with a few characters. This seems more like 
 Tales of Symphonia 1.5. This game is a prime example of how the Wii can ruin a perfectly good series. 
 (even though this one isn't totally its fault) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zh666
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2008 6:02 am PT
Review:  Ok, let me get this out of the way. I've been addicted to Action RPGs since the original Zelda 
 was released and was a huge fan of the Tales of series since Tales of Destiny was released. I played 
 a ton, and I mean a TON of RPG's last gen. Tales of Symphonia just happens to be my favorite RPG 
 of last gen. Sure, it's cliche, but the overall package was amazing. It's hard to explain, but 
 you can't relive that experience.
  
  That's why I wanted to love Tales of Symphonia, and at the same time I was dreading it. I came 
 into the game with low expectations. I haven't played a Tales of game better than the original 
 Symphonia since then, and heck, I haven't played a JRPG that was better than Symphonia since it's 
 release either. In my eyes, Dawn of the New World had a uphill battle. Overall, the game works. 
 There's nothing technically wrong with the game. It's a fun side story that fleshes out the aftermath 
 of the original game. Is it better than Tales of Symphonia? HELL NO. Is was better than I expected 
 though. 
  
  One thing about this game though, it's storyline is based way to much on the past of Tales of Symphonia. 
 If you haven't played Tales of Symphonia (shame on you) , then I would recommend to NOT play Dawn 
 of the New World. While they do an ok job at trying to expect the previous game, it's just to much 
 to digest. In alot of ways, Dawn of the New World reminds me alot like Final Fantasy X-2. It takes 
 place shortly after that aftermath of each game. They're both obviously side stories, and not "official" 
 games. Their battle systems rely on some sort of gimmick (monsters / job classes) and heck even 
 the world maps are similar. Each game had a short mainquest with a large amount of sidequests. 
 I could go on, but they're similar in a lot of ways. 
  
  I loved the controls, for the most part. Tales of Symphonia's battle system is based off of Tales 
 of the Abyss'. So, there's nothing technically bad about the system. You can free roam and attack 
 enemies from behind if you want (I thought this made the game a bit easy on Abyss and this one) . 
 There's really no Wiimote functions outside of hot key attacks, which is a GOOD thing. Everything 
 is controlled with the nunchuck and wiimote. My only beef with the battle system controls is how 
 you switch monsters. You have to hit the minus button, so you can't easily switch between monsters. 
 Other than that, the system is perfect.
  
  On the map you can control your avatar various ways. One way is to use the analog stick, this is 
 honestly the only good way. The other is to use the d-pad and run with the B button. The D-pad 
 on the Wii-mote is honestly not made for this type of gameplay. One stupid thing that happens when 
 using the D-pad is Emil will stop moving if your cursor hits the screen. Speaking of that, you 
 can control Emil by using a cursor, and it such a poor use. I have no idea why they included it 
 even. It's hard to run, it's hard to move, it's hard to dodge enemies. It's very flawed, but luckily 
 you can just use the analog stick. There was ONE minigame that used the Wiimote too, and it was 
 dumb. 
  
  While some people might complain about the short main quest. I think the sidequests add a huge 
 amount of depth to the overall experience. This reminds me of Enchanted Arms, I really dreaded 
 the main quest, but I loved exploring the areas, item synthesizing and collecting monsters. 
  
  ----------Battle System ----------
  Tales of Symphonia: Dawn of the New World is a party-based 
 Action RPG. You only fight as one character at a time, but you can order your remaining 3 team 
 mates around by selecting what items to use, magic to use or you can change their strategy AI. 
 Strategy AI is fairly vague orders like "Attack the enemy I'm attacking" or "Use TP at a high level". 
 Each character has 5 AI settings, but it might be different per character.
  
  You gain experience and money like in every JRPG ever made by defeating monsters. You gain levels 
 after achieving enough experience points. After a certain amount of levels, your two main characters 
 will gain new skills or artes. Artes are your magic or physical attacks that Marta or Emil can 
 use. If you're playing as Emil, you can set four Arte attacks by tapping the B button in battle 
 and using the various direction pad commands. Along with these 4 basic quick Artes (which have 
 been with the series since the beginning) , you can do something new now. You can set 8 additional 
 hot keys for attacks. You can assign ANY character and spell to these 8 hot keys. 4 of the hot 
 keys are attached to the D-pad, up, down, left and right. The other 4 are attached to Wiimote waggle. 
 This is a pretty cool idea and I used them quite a bit.
  
  Skills are "behind the scenes" status effects that you can attach to your characters or monsters. 
 Each character has a set number of skill points they can distribute among their skill set. Some 
 skills boost your overall HP or Attack power, some skills boost your ability to kill a certain 
 enemy. It's a huge variety. 
  
  There's also 2 kinds of Unison attacks you can perform in the game. The basic Unison attack is 
 kinda like the ones from Tales of Legendia. You fill a meter, separated into 2 sections. Once you 
 get past atleast 1 section you can unleash a Unison attack with your allies if they're near and 
 filled in the elemental dial. The other is a Mystic Arte, this attack you can't learn until the 
 middle of the game. You first have to equip the "Special" skill, then you can pull off the Arte 
 in battle when your gauge is 100% full and you have enough TP to pull it off. First you have to 
 use any Arte, then hold down on the B button to set the move. After the move is set, you can press 
 the B button again for an additional move. 
  
  Dungeons are fairly basic maze like dungeons with random block or level puzzles. I did like the 
 puzzles, I thought a couple were actually hard (but doable) but I was hoping the Wiimote would 
 take more account into the puzzles. All the Wiimote is useful for is the Ring that shoots fire. 
 You can change your elements to work around puzzles but it rarely is put to good use. I mean, you 
 can shoot the Ring at a long range and anywhere on screen, but it doesn't improve beyond the Ring 
 from the previous Tales of games. 
  
  In this sequel, the Katz Guide now offer sidequest challenges to your team. I enjoyed them quite 
 a bit, especially early on in the game. There's only two versions of sidequests. One is where you 
 travel through a dungeon, fighting four minibosses until you achieve your goal (get treasure, save 
 monster, defeat boss, etc) . The other is to fight one single boss character. After you win your 
 challenge, you get a rare item. For the most part, the items you win are barely worth the sidequest. 
 I loved doing the sidequests because they offered you time to gain more levels without feeling 
 like you're level grinding. You can also gain a TON of loot for Item Synthesis. My only complaint 
 about the Katz Guide sidequests are how limited they are. Through out the 1st to 7th chapters of 
 the game, you'll fight through the same 2 dungeons over and over again (Windy Cave / Dwarf Cave) . 
 They're occasionally through you a bone with a Volcano or Ice cave, but you might have to go through 
 the same dungeon up to 3 times per chapter (if you choose to do the sidequest) . On the 8th chapter 
 (and final) chapter is when you unlock a special hidden dungeon plus previously visited dungeons. 
 
  
  Item Synthesis is another good time waster. To get all the good loot, you'll have to go through 
 the sidequests. You get loot from treasure chests or by defeating a monster and getting it by chance. 
 Once you get all the right ingredients, you can then go to any shop in town and start forging items. 
 You can make some pretty cool and rare weapons and armor with your old armor. So it's worth experimenting. 
 
  
  Monster collecting is a huge part of the game if you choose to do it. You can forge pacts with 
 monsters if you defeat them when your elements align. Kinda like in Chrono Cross, when you use 
 an element Arte, your little dial will get a elemental notch. Once that dial is dominated by an 
 element, it will turn into that said element. This can effect the battle field (like in Chrono 
 Cross) , but it will also let you befriend monsters. 
  
  Once you get a monster on your team, it always starts at level 1. Monsters level up a lot faster 
 than Marta or Emil, and you can hold up to 4 monsters at a time. If you befriend a monster when 
 you have 4 monsters on your team, you can send it to the Katz Guide or replace it with one of your 
 four. The monsters sent to the guide can't gain experience though, only the four you have with 
 you. After so many levels, your monster will eventually start to twitch and want to evolve into 
 a new monster. This is when you take them to the Katz Guide and feed them. When you feed a monster, 
 he'll gain a bunch of stat boosts. If you feed them while they're evolving, then you can change 
 their class. You can evolve monsters around 3 times before they start to devolve to their original 
 state and start the evolution over again. You DON'T have to evolve a monster if it wants to. It's 
 up to you when you want to evolve a monster. Your monsters can equip 2 accessories. Along with 
 high level rate, accessories, you can also buy or find them skills or artes to permanently attach 
 to them. 
  
  The original cast of Tales of Symphonia joins your team in various points in the game. You team 
 up with a member of TOS atleast 90% of the game. The only problem people have with this is these 
 characters don't level up and you can't switch their equipment. I don't mind because it means less 
 micromanaging and they leave your team quite often, so you would be losing alot of equipment if 
 you bothered with it. 
  
  ----------Characters / Story ----------
  Tales of Symphonia 2 is set 2 years after the first game. The two worlds have rejoin as one. The 
 world is on the brink of chaos. A civil war is brewing between the two former worlds. Not only 
 that, but the world's climate is going crazy. Desert towns get blizzard storms, Ice towns are melting, 
 some towns are being slow destroyed by earthquakes. 
  
  You play as Emil, a very young kid who witnessed his parents murder in the hands of Lloyd Irving, 
 the hero from the original Tales of Symphonia. Emil has no self esteem, and gets picked on by his 
 friends and even his family. Emil hates Lloyd Irving for what he did, but he doesn't have the power 
 or courage to face him. 
  
  Emil eventually meets up with a young lady named Marta. Marta is a pariah, wondering the world 
 for Centurian Cores. These cores hold the "souls" of Centurian monsters. Centurians can control 
 monsters of their element, and they control the balance of the world. Marta has the Core of Ratatosk 
 attached to her head. She's on a mission to find all the cores and hatch them to restore order 
 of the world. 
  
  Ratatosk is the Guardian of all monsters. He eventually bestows his power to Emil to protect Marta 
 on her journey. This gives Emil a split personality. When Emil get's mad, he goes into "Ratatosk 
 Mode". This is alot like Dr. Jeckle and Mr. Hyde, or possible the Incredible Hulk.
  
  Overall the story was good enough. There was nothing insulting about the characters. Ok, the two 
 main leads are very cliche, but I did enjoy their character progression, especially Emil's. I loved 
 how they weaved in the original cast and characters from Tales of Symphonia into the game. It didn't 
 feel tacked on, which is what I was scared of. However, this story couldn't have happened without 
 them. The story turned out a lot more exciting than I was expecting. 
  
  Also, I want to go on record by saying Alice is the greatest villain in Tales of history. 
  
 
  
  ----------Graphics ----------
  The graphics are a touchy issue. At some points, the game looks really cheap. In other points, 
 the game looks amazing. It's hard to judge something like this game. For example, the dungeon animations, 
 from rocks falling or monsters floating towards you, look extremely generic. The dungeons themselves 
 look like they needed an extra amount of polish as well. 
  
  I have a few mixed feelings about some things. For one, the character models. In the original game, 
 the character models were squatty little 3D models that used a cool celshading effect. In TOS2, 
 the models look fully proportionate. They no longer use a celshading effect either. The graphical 
 style looks very close to what Tales of the Abyss was going after. I personally preferred the original 
 style but I'm ok with change. It offers more character detail, but it also shows off alot of jaggy 
 moments too.
  
  I love the cutscenes though. They use that same technology that Tales of the Abyss occasionally 
 used, or for a better example Basketball games use. They use real actors and digitally replace 
 them with the game characters. Sometimes it looks really good, while other times it looks downright 
 creepy. I enjoyed it though, I don't often see that in RPGs. It makes the game look more realistic 
 in their movements, but you can see the actors stutter with moves and stuff. It's not a perfect 
 science yet.
  
  One thing I have to get off my chest are the cutscenes, which are COMPLETELY SKIPPABLE. If you 
 read the Gamespot review, then the reviewer claims the cutscenes aren't skippable and that he was 
 forced to watch them all (aw poor baby) . Well, he was wrong. They can easily be skipped by holding 
 down A & B buttons. Argh, rant over. 
  
  The special moves, enemy models, and other battle field graphics look pretty good, but I think 
 they look worse than Tales of the Abyss. One other than that's kinda annoying is when you run to 
 fast in a dungeon or town, the entire screen gets blurry. 
  
  
  ----------Sound ----------
  I'll start with the voice acting first. Emil is VERY whiny snot nosed 
 kid. He can be very irritating, but once you get to know more about Emil, you eventually find out 
 why he's such a whiny kid. He's a total shock when you first hear him, but stick with it, he's 
 whiny for a very good reason. I love Marta's voice, and especially Alice's. Tenebrae talks in a 
 smoothing, yet stern tone, which reminds me lot of the dog from Shining Force Exa, who are both 
 very similar characters. 
  
  As for the returning characters of the game. Lloyd, Zelos and possibly Genis all have different 
 voice actor, or at the very least they sound very very different than how I remember them. Genis 
 sounds like he has a more mature and deeper voice, so he sounds pretty good. Lloyd and Zelos were 
 shocks, but overall you get use to it and forget about it. 
  
  I was a little surprised by how much voice acting was in the game too. Every dialog scene, every 
 cutscene, and even every skit are voiced over. The only exceptions are the Katz Guide sidequests. 
 
  
  The music is great. I haven't played the original Tales of Symphonia in atleast 3 years, so I'm 
 not sure what's new, old or remixed, but I did recognize a few tracks. 
  
  ----------World Map ----------
  The world map was a big controversy but I welcome it. I normally 
 don't like Menu based maps, but who wants to re-explore the same areas over again? It's not new 
 to you, so why bother. Also, the encounter rate in this game is massive compared to the previous 
 Tales of games. Monsters re-appear seconds after you kill them, so you can run into the same monster 
 twice just by grabbing a chest. Do you want to run into 100 more battles but you reach a town over 
 and over again? 
  
  With that said, I loooove the graphic style of the world map. It reminds me alot of Chrono Trigger. 
 I would have been nice if they adopted the Chrono Trigger world Map idea. Heck, even a Baten Kaitos 
 or Xenosaga world map would be ok. I like those maps because you don't have to worry about random 
 encounters slowing you down. 
  
  One cool thing about the map is how you can control it. You can use the d-pad and skim through 
 the avalible towns or dungeons, or you can use the Wiimote and spin the globe around to pick the 
 town. This reminds me of the game Contact on the DS. One bad thing about the map is they lock you 
 out of areas during certain points. You'll eventually open the entire game towards the end though. 
 
  
  Some people might say there's no reason to backtrack into previous towns. I disagree. Some towns 
 sell specific items, such as armor/weapons (for item synthesis) or maybe skills you can team your 
 monsters, and especially food. You can't get the same kind of food in every town. There's also 
 some special Richter based sidequests you can unlock by backtracking in certain chapters. It's 
 always a good idea to check previous towns for new stuff. I'm sure there was stuff I missed even.
 
  
  ----------Time to Complete Game ----------
  57:24
  
  I put a lot of time into this. I did all sidequests but the final unlockable one, Twilight Palace. 
 I didn't purposely go out of my way to capture or raise monsters. I stuck with the few I liked 
 and moved on. I watched all cutscenes and skits, overall 86% skits were watched. I never once level 
 grinded. That's why I took me 57 hours to complete. There was alot of things to do outside of the 
 mainquest. The game can be completed on an average of 30 hours if you watch all cutscenes and skits, 
 but skip the sidequest stuff. Some people have claimed they beat it in 15 hours, but how can you 
 enjoy a game rushing through it that fast?
  
  There are two possible endings, and I kinda preferred the bad one for some reason. I LOVED the 
 ending credits, I rarely say that. Let's just say the when the credits roll, in the background 
 they pan across a room showing a bunch of weird pictures of the games adventure. Probably one of 
 the best credit sequences since Star Tropics or Megaman 2. Oh yeah, I went there.
  
  After you beat the game you unlock a New Game+ mode. Here you can spend all your grade you want. 
 I ended up with 3,086. That was nearly enough to buy everything (4,070 total) , although there are 
 some grade that contradict each other. 
  
  I ran into 1,438 encounters. The most I have ever encountered in single Tales of.. game. This explains 
 why I had a ton of Grade left over. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aLexanderrness
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 29, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  A game with an EXCELLENT story line. You get to see old faces in a new game. It is truely awesome 
 seeing lloyd and them back, some fighting along-side you, unfortunately you do not get to maintain 
 them as if you had full control over them. The characters from the old tos cast do not level up 
 according to you, you only have 2 permanant characters and a large variety of monsters you can 
 bond with to fight alongside with you. The monster pacts are a great addition to this game though.
 
  
  Unfortunately, there is nothing much more than it's compelling story. The gameplay is just hack 
 and slash, no real stradegy involved despite gathering up on items and buying weapons. The fighting 
 system is just too basic and easy. I much prefer tos1's style. The voice acting is great as well, 
 but it just isn't the same without lloyd's old voice.
  
  The temples or dungeons you have to face are more of a chore than fun. Throughout this game, I 
 felt as if they just effortlessley developed this game due to tos1's strong popularity and high 
 ratings. It falls as a sequel, more of a spin off to me. The only thing well thought of this game 
 was the story, the game overall is nothing new. I believe that the GAMECUBE tos1 is much better 
 than the WII tos2. 
  
  If you are looking for a deep story-filled game, I would suggest this to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D7ok
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2008 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Well, i had to make a review for this one right here. First i would like to add, this game is not 
 a bad game at all. I will admit there is bad voice acting in it and the story can lose you in a 
 few spots, but the game is actually quiet fun. I think that the monster taming abilities and what 
 not adds a little more uniqueness to the game, it wasent a bad idea and it works out well. The 
 gameplay is as good as ever and the bosses can be as challenging as you've never seen is a Tales 
 game. I actually like this game alot, its not that different, it actually might be better, so my 
 advice is to dont listen to reviews and try it out yourself, if you like the first one you will 
 probably like this one too. The one thing it is missing that i wish it wasent, is the EX-gem system, 
 it added alot to the gameplay, and helped develop your characters more. And my final note is that 
 the monster taming can get a little difficult but monsters = chuck norris so..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walkrad
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2008 3:21 am PT
Review:  The game worth play... the cutscenes are rox and funny.... the combat is good with good movement 
 on circles.... but the part on monsters is bad =\ hunting it.. is good... but feed is horrible... 
 always back to Katz Guild... and cooking something.. Tales of Symphonia 1 had better crafting ... 
 they should put better explanation on evolution monsters... coz i have some that want to evolve 
 to first form... maybe they need some Statue.. to evolve correctly but the game dont say which 
 one i sould use.... since have more then 9 ... is hard to try all... coz it use Philosofer stone 
 ( i am at chapter 5 and didnt found any stone... T_T neither Elemental fragment... found 2 at the 
 start but thought it was easy to find.... and now cant craft new skills for mobs ...
  
  The chars are charismatics ... the dialogue fun and immersive ... is nice to see another point 
 of view on the history.... 
  
  Emil.. is a pain in the ass... he is so gay... Marta love him.... is cool the way she throw herself 
 hahaha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ikesfireemblem
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game since spring now I've got it. It was fun altough i wish charecters (like 
 Regal Sheena Genis Raine Lloyd, etc) would stay with you and you could change their equipment. 
 Also I like how they got ride of T and S artes, but now some characters artes seem empty like Sheena 
 and Lloyd. I'm sad that Kratos is gone. But where did the summon spirits go, only Celsius came 
 to the party? All in all this was a good game. I would look forward to see another sequel that 
 ties up some things that were not explained enough to make presumptions. It's disappointing, all 
 the other centurions were not introduced just Aqua and Paw Pad aka., Tenabrane Tenibie Spiteful 
 Tenabonehead or Brae Brae. If there will be a sequel they'll have to involve Neibelheim b/c they've 
 covered the whole world, twice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeRoCool89
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2008 9:32 pm PT
Review:  The good:
  Good graphics but not majorly changed since the last game
  Fresh look at both worlds combined as one
  Great looking and effective combo's
  Shocking twists 
 and turns like the previous game
  Great recognizable sequal
  Less harder to figure out puzzles if you played the previous game
  Some cut-scenes are pausable 
 or skipable in-game 
  
  The bad:
  No free roaming in the world map (at least not that i've seen)
  Some cut-scenes cannot be paused 
 or skipped
  Monsters attack you like maniacs and some are to easy to avoid
  
  
  Scores 0/10:
  Visual: 7
  Voices: 8
  Music: 7
  Controls: 6
  Feeling: 9
  Story: 9
  
 
  Verdict:
  Great game if you played the previous one.
  But don't worry if you did not play the previous game cause once you play this game you will learn 
 about the previous story.
  This is a great game for anyone whos intrested in anime and stories about saving the world.
  
 And especially for people who have alot of time on their hands.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_stat
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Well well, seems like I've been given the splendid opportunity to give this game a review. To make 
 this clear now, I know what Tales games are about. I've played Tales of Symphonia 1, Tales of the 
 Abyss, Tales of the World: Radiant Mythology, Tales of Legendia, and the list goes on. If you're 
 expecting me to compare THIS game to it's predecessor, well I will make references, but don't expect 
 huge comparisons.
  
  Coming from a huge fan of the Original Story-Line, let me tell you this right here and now. This 
 is not an actual sequel. The Storyline from the previous game is very different. It takes place 
 2 years after the events the original. So before you start comparing this to the original, keep 
 in mind what I said. Old Cast is there, but their roles are not major roles. They have become the 
 supporting roles. Now you can debate this if you want, but you'll realize that this game is positioned 
 on a few new central characters, rather than the old crew. Now, onto the critique of this game 
 :o!
  
  
  Alright, now just a quick overview. For the new-comers to the Tales series' It may be a bit tricky 
 without knowledge from Tales of Symphonia (GC) . Some things here and there may be confusing, but 
 I'm sure you can adapt to it. Don't be afraid to ask for help! A lot of new players in any game 
 get bored because they don't know what they're doing. If you need the help, ask, but don't forget 
 to try it yourself first. The learning curve is easy. I'll give you 1-2 hour (s) . The ideas are 
 very creative in this one, so look forward to it. I suggest you try it, It's worth the fun. If 
 you want an approximate on time (excluding Side-Quests) it'll take you 40-60 hours of playtime.
 
  
  
  
  Now, for you Tales Veterans. Just a guess but I'll say at least 70% of you reading this may have 
 already played ToS 1. I'm very sorry to say, but if you're looking for that satisfying feel of 
 depth and complexity you saw in ToS 1 in ToS: DotNWm, you won't get much of it. If you wish to 
 refer to this as a sequel (which is a very bad idea) you won't get much out of it. The new character 
 voice cast does not fill the shoes of their seniors. Definitely lost points there. Reused battle 
 music, bosses pose no real threats and challenge. So basically, as a Sequel, it needs work. NOW! 
 If you see this as a different game all together, as it was intended, but using references from 
 the past, the story-line and game itself was something of its own. I found that the new role of 
 Monsters was a bit troublesome, but it'll grow on you. This game will definitely grow on you. Personally 
 I would still much rather just beat ToS all over again, but this does satisfy the very minimal 
 requirements a Tales game has to offer.
  
  
  Rating: 7.4/10 (I use whatever decimal I feel like)
  Learning Curve: 1-2 hours for new comers. 
 30 minutes for Vets
  Difficulty: Doesn't matter if you're new or old, this game was fairly easy
  Gameplay: Decent, 
 at the minimal.
  
  Final words: Definitely not the worst Tales game out there, but I would say that if it would take 
 even a year to enhance this and give it a few more tweaks, they should have done it. As a Tales 
 game, disappointing. As a game overall, half decent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Obamamaniac
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2008 4:20 pm PT
Review:  T. o. S. D. o. t. N. W. is without question the most underrated game I've seen since FFCC: RoF. It's not 
 GOTY but it's a fine story-oriented action-RPG completed with a lot of fan service to those who 
 played the first game. You play as Emil, and meek gur from a town that has just been destroyed 
 by Lloyd, one of the heroes from the original. You meet a girl named Marta, and you will run around 
 the world fighting foes using an evcellent battle system of 3-ai controlled party members (and 
 the AI is really good too, so don't worry about CPU incompetence) and a character you fully control. 
 The graphics are pretty good, the dialogue is kind of repetive but well written and interesting, 
 the sound is by far the best I've heard in a while, and the story is average for most people, and 
 top-notch for people who played the original. The characters are outstanding and are full of variety, 
 and the game moves at a pretty fast pace through its easily 30-hour storyline (more if you do the 
 side quests) . THe battles can be beaten with some strategic button-mashing and manuevering, but 
 there is a huge amount of depth in character placement and which specials to set for your ai members. 
 There's a pokemon-esque monster capture system set in place, and while it's not integral it's pretty 
 amusing.
  
  Tales of Symphonia: Dawn of the New World isn't the must-have game of 2008, but the critics really 
 got the score wrong here. This game is far better than GS would have you believe, and it's a treat 
 to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bleux33
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 12:44 am PT
Review:  This game is good but not really there. This game has alot of new stuff, but there are some that 
 i miss from the first TOS. First there is the travel i miss walking to the village or temple rather 
 than pointing pressing A and then A again to go there faster. The other thing i miss is that the 
 first one takes longer to discover a village longer than this one. This one it is so fast to go 
 from village to village. What i miss from the first game is that some people don't look that deformed. 
 Anyway this game is fun with all the new features in this game. This game has alot of hours of 
 gameplay because you might want to catch all the monsters and evovle all of them. I think this 
 game has a high replay value (my opionion) . I think you should just pick this game up since it is 
 only 40 bucks. This game is good and long which i guess would be a good game to your collection.
 
  I just started playing this game about a week ago. Its great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dezomer
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 8:18 pm PT
Review:  This game has instantly become one of my favorites since the series began awhile back. When I bought 
 the first game for the gamecube I was shocked at how fun and interesting this game was to play, 
 and I found it very hard to put down. As for TOS: Dawn of New World, this game just take the series 
 to the next level by adding more intuitive game play. The use of monsters to use while fighting 
 is a great leap for this game as it allows the players to have more to do than to just use the 
 required characters you have. Most die hard fans will be ticked about the use of these, but purists 
 of the game will love it at is gives them a reason to play the game longer. Also since the game 
 really doesn't give a chance to level up joined characters (example: Raine & Genis) these extra 
 monsters will be top priority for those who wish to advance through the game. It does help though 
 that the three main characters happen to be all interesting characters as they are both humorous 
 and cool. With the exception of Emil our character at the beginning of the game. Not to spoil anything 
 i wont go into detail. 
  Multiplayer is also one of the great aspects of this game as it gives us the opportunity to play 
 this game with up to four players. Personally I've found myself playing this game with a friend 
 more than I have myself, as it is just more fun when you can make the battle go completely the 
 way You want it to. Lastly which most people will want to know is: Is the story good? & Do I really 
 want to buy this? The answer to both of these questions is yes, and coming from a gamer and not 
 a reviewer it might be easier to trust me. The story is filled with many interesting plot twists 
 and turns just like th previous games and always leaves you wondering what to do next. I have already 
 played for about 19 hours and I don't think I'm even half way done.
  In conclusion this game is definitely worth buying as it just fills the gap for most RPG lovers 
 out there. If you own a Wii and love Action/RPG's this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bankai218
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  First of all this game is rocks don't believe the other sites. It is the spin off of the first 
 game Tales Of Symphonia. If you played the first game the game might go smoother. But if you haven't, 
 you'll figure it out quickly. 
  
  The story of all Tales games are always amazing, so this 1 won't be any different. The way you 
 play is by walking into monsters to fight them, so there wont be unexpected battles. You fight 
 by using artes. There's melee artes and spell artes. The melee artes are upfront attacks while 
 spell artes can damage the enemy using different elements or they can heal allies. The disapointing 
 part is this time you don't get to roam around on the world map, but rather choose your destination 
 and it moves there for you. Also the graphics arn't the greatest, but graphics arn't the biggest 
 part of the game. There are also many songs re-used from the last game, but that doesn't make it 
 a bad thing.
  
  This time there's something new. You can capture monsters by getting the right elements. The main 
 element and 4 minor elements have to match each other, then when you kill the monster you can capture 
 it. If you have a monster that is the same element as the monster you want to capture it can increase 
 the capture rate.
  
  Game play: 9
  Sound: 7
  Story: 9
  Visuals: 7
  Overall: 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yuminir
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 7:08 am PT
Review:  There are too many videos, during the game, they are cool, but they tire you a bit, because they 
 are very very constant. But, it dont really affect the game play or the pleasure of playing it. 
 For me it is one of the best games i ever played. In many aspects, this game is better then the 
 original. But, however, there are somethings, that are missing, that the tales of symphonia original 
 had. I dont really have anything else to right, it is a perfect game after all. Well, it reminds 
 me of pokemon some times, I wont explain why, because if I do, I will kill some inicial mistery. 
 And I like the idea of been able to choose some of the character opinions, and even better, been 
 able to finish the history in diferents modes, like the good ending, the bad ending, even, because 
 you dont really know, if your side is the real good side, you just find out in the end.
  
  Besides the long scenes, that are cool, but long and very usual, the game is perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jstrife
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  After playing TOS: Dawn of the New World, I found that there were many flaws to the much anticipated 
 sequel to the hit RPG for the Gamecube. 
  
  Although it had all the good qualities of the first game, I was disappointed to find that there 
 wasn't anything new.
  
  Gameplay: Lots of button smashing. I could play with my eyes closed. Anything else I need to say?
 
  
  Sound: The music sounds the same throughout the whole game, the only difference is that they throw 
 in different instruments. The voice acting. It's just plain annoying. It would have been perfectly 
 fine if they kept the Japanese voices with subtitles.
  
  Concept: Nothing new. Like it says: been there done that... oh look I just did it again.
  
  
 Story: The story is about finding out what is right and what it wrong. I could barely make this 
 out. They drag out sequences too long and soon, I am bored of the story. The thousands of flashbacks 
 don't help either. A shortened story would have been fine for this game, which is sort of a surprise. 
 It's also hard for new players to understand since they don't know what happened in the first game.
 
  
  Overall, Tales of Symphonia: Dawn of the New World, is a game that tries to throw in old concepts 
 with strange twists and crams too many ideas for players' minds to handle. If you are a returning 
 fan of the series, it's like playing the old game through another character. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sixgun567
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Highly addictive and fun game. It is a must have for any gamer who like's this type of roleplaying 
 game. It have some nice twist and a good story. It is incredibly enjoyable and great follow up 
 "Tales of Symphonia" on Game cube. If you're a veteran or a noob to the series it will stay have 
 that joyful quality to it's gameplay. Even if you are a noob you can still get into it because 
 it does not go directly off of the old game in the series. It is especially fun with the new monster 
 setup were you are able to get monster such as Dragons, Wolves, and Imps. Be careful to watch the 
 time to make sure you don't stay up to late or mis a meeting because like I said it is highly addictive. 
 I hope you guys and girls out there read this review and decide to buy this game. It is worth every 
 penny and more so I hope you enjoy it and have fun gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: th3chos3non3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Creating a true to form sequel is a risky venture. There are often too many plot obstacles in place 
 to prevent a sequel from really being great. An if one takes the path of least resistance when 
 creating a sequel, then the creator merely creates the exact same tired copy of the original. It 
 may come as a suprise then to learn that Tales of Symphonia II: Dawn of the New World is not a 
 tired copy, nor a flawed broken effort.
  
  In regards to plot, Symphonia II picks up 2 years after the ending of the original. Heroes Lloyd 
 and Collette succeeded at the world regeneration, and brought together two worlds seperated by 
 a shortage of mana and divine severing of land masses. There is far more to that story, but if 
 you want all the juicy summon spirit gossip, you'll just have to track down a copy of the game 
 for GC or PS2. 
  
  We open up in a town under fire, with the protaganist of the previous story seemingly attacking 
 the family of the protagonist of the current story. This poses many questions which are not easy 
 to answer, and obviously sets our stry in motion. You assume the role of Emil, who's parents have 
 been dispatched at the hands of Lloyd. You are a coward with a twisted mean ultra powerful side 
 which has revealed itself in rare but powerful battle sequences. You have the ability to form pacts 
 with monsters, using artes or weapons which possess the same elements as the monster in order to 
 coerce the monster into a pact. Once pactified, they can fight for you - but not every pact is 
 guaruanteed, and not every monster is very powerful or useful. This isnt youre run of the mill 
 pokemon monster catching fiasco. Proper matching of skills and elements and monsters can maximize 
 your ability in battle, but it is time consuming.
  
  Battle is in typical Tales fashion (except with the monster mechanic) pitting you and your party 
 in real time combat on a free range battle arena, stringing together 3 to 4 hit combos and using 
 TP to exact cevastating artes on your foes. the more you use an arte, the more artes you can learn 
 that are connected to it. The monsters hit hard, a nd proper use of the guard button is recommended, 
 giving Symphonia II a bit more challenge than its predecessors.
  
  The visuals are strikingly smooth, frame rates are high, and sound is crisp even on the lower powered 
 Wii hardware. It is quite exciting to see old cities and forests revisited looking much better 
 but still retaining all the familiarity and recognition. Some of the original voice actors have 
 returned adding to the nostalgia for those who experienced the original.
  
  For the populace who have not experienced the original, do not let that discourage you from experiencing 
 this one. As the plot develops, you learn much about the general story of Symphonia and its worlds 
 of Teth'ealla and Sylvarant. Old faces make cameo appearances, and even you will start to ask what 
 happend to Lloyd, as if you too were there for the worl regeneration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zynqu
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  im gonna get right to the point.
  NO WORLD MAP!
  
  WTF! every tales game up till now had one. even the ones with horrible graphics on the snes. im 
 not saying this game isnt enjoyable though. even without the world map this game really still knows 
 how to kill time. from my opinion this game would be beter if it had a world map.
  
  a world map would add alot lore hours to gameplay and also give players a real feel of the landscape 
 of the world. resorting back to the choose ur destination is kinda lame. it is the came thing over 
 ans over again. click on a town or dungeon and fight a boss and do puzzles. nothing ever changes. 
 
  
  thenstory itself is too predictable. it is possible for almost anyone to correctly predict what 
 happens next. in my opinion this game failed to continue the glory of the first one. but started 
 a glory of its own. this game doesn't have a great emotional twist like the first one which makes 
 the story interesting. instead Dow u can re-create ur pokemon fever by taming monsters. the story 
 from Dow also never answers some of the question left behind. like why did lloyod abandon his journey? 
 they point that question out but just leaves it there. the story has many gaps that should've been 
 filled. what makes it even less enjoyable is that they simply tell u every detail of what is going 
 on. there is no mystery or confusion for the players at all. most players enjoy a story where there 
 is a major twist that alters emontion. but the player must put tings together themselves to understand 
 this twist. but in DoW they simply show and tell the player that this is because of this and that 
 is because of that. it is quite bland if i say so myself.
  
  futhermore the game producers could hjave done better than this. im a big fan of namco and i know 
 they can do a whole lot better.
  Tales of symphonia and Tales of Symphonia DoW are 2 very great games, both with alot of replay 
 value. but Namco didnt keep there promise when they said DoW would be better than the first one.
 
  
  -----------------please send me your opinions about my review i would love to read  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Major_Ryan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Here we are, 2 years later in the land of Sylvarant and Tetha'alla merged into one world. The new 
 world tree is still in its infancy and growing ever so slowly to produce the mana the world needs 
 in order to survive. But, there is yet another problem to this ever-changing world.
  
  First off, the graphics got a huge boost compared to the last game. Much of what was beautiful 
 before, got even better this time. Many of the cities didn't really change at all. They still look 
 just as they did before, with the exception of a few changes here and there to accommodate for 
 the new world. There are also plenty of new places to visit, and we also go back to the old temples 
 and shrines where the summon spirits were once kept. But, instead of being inhabited by the summon 
 spirits themselves, you end up going further to find what are known as Centurion Cores.
  
  The music also got an update. They remixed a lot of the music from the first game to fit the new 
 world era to keep a similar tone, yet still sound different for many areas. I haven't really found 
 a music piece that was actually the same in the previous game. They really did an outstanding job 
 yet again for one of my personal favorite areas of the game itself.
  
  Now then... the battle system. Yes, it got updated as well. Instead of being restricted on a 2D 
 stance in a 3D world, you now have complete free-roam abilities which will help tremendously during 
 battle. The unison attack however, got an overhaul. You can now execute them whenever you wish 
 so long as your gauge is at least half full. It's also possible that you will have a partner or 
 two, or three, or even all four, attack the same person. But regardless, the battle system does 
 remain virtually similar to its predecessor. Unlike the last game, this time around, you're allowed 
 to change your character during battle to any of the people there.
  
  There are also a few changes done as well. Instead of the "Skills" being called Skills, they are 
 now known as "Artes," probably to keep in touch with the latest Tales games out, like Vesperia. 
 And as per usual, there are base artes, arcane arts, and special, mystic artes as well. One other 
 notable change is that, instead of EX Gems for skills, you now have a skill point system to assign 
 however many skills you are able to with the amount of skill points you have.
  
  Another, very unique feature, and possibly the first to see in the Tales games, is the Monster 
 Pact system. This is a rather unique system in that, you can tame monsters to fight along your 
 side, and evolve them to bigger, better monsters to fight with you. Forming a pact with the monsters 
 is sometimes a breeze, but in other times is not. You have to match the elemental grid system to 
 that of the monster, and then try to form a pact then. You will fail on occasions, but succeed 
 on others. It's just a matter of patience, and perseverance. 
  
  Compared to the last game, they did a significant amount of voice acting this time. Rather than 
 having about half the game with actual voices, about 85% of the game has voice acting. However, 
 they have changed a couple of the voice actors compared to the last game, the most concerning one 
 being for Lloyd. Most of the others have kept their voice actors, or sound similar enough that 
 there isn't a difference.
  
  However, some of the voice acting downsides can be made up with some of the comedy within. For 
 the main game itself, the dialogue gets quite funny, even the skits do as well. Most people will 
 laugh quite a bit during their play-through.
  
  This game will take you back to the old places that you knew once before, except for maybe the 
 odd one or two because of either destruction or for the character's own wishes, or whatever reason 
 that may be. The game also has a plethora of new places to explore and discover. And the temples 
 that you once knew, also get some over-haul compared to the last time you visited those places. 
 The most notable difference being a re-decorated Temple of Darkness.
  
  Now, here's the biggest disadvantage of the entire game that I can think of. You get two new characters 
 who will stick with you for virtually all of the story. You will have one or two people come and 
 go for part of the story, some being a new character entirely, and some being Tales of Symphonia 
 characters. But, whenever they are in your party, you can't use Symphonia 1 characters in the first 
 slot. Unfortunately, you are restricted to either Emil, or Marta as your character for most of 
 the game. However, you can play as the other characters if you switch to them during battle. But, 
 you can't change their equipment at all. You can change their skills though, but just about everything 
 else is locked in place for the game.
  
  Despite some particular downfalls of the game, it's still an excellent game to play through, and 
 a must-buy for fans of the first Symphonia game. I would highly recommend people playing this game 
 to also play the first to get an understanding of what the characters will say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erratic_gamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is a compilation of all that is good in the Tales franchise to date. Great battles and 
 story all together in one. The increase in battlefield is very nice, it allows you to move more 
 freely than in the other games. Tales of the Abyss had the same type of field but in this game 
 the field is bigger. The story is very good on its own. The story answers questions left behind 
 by the first game but also creates more to be answered. The voices for most of the characters are 
 well done but some of the changes don't make a logical connection, like Regals voice change (he 
 is like 35-40 why the **ck does his voice change did he go through puberty again?) . Another nice 
 new edition to the game is the voice acted mini scenes that you can watch, it makes it more interesting 
 to hear the characters talking rather than giving them voices in your head. All in all this is 
 an awesome game especially if you are already a fan of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackmesaboy1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 9:40 pm PT
Review:  When I heard they were makina a sequel to Tales of Symphonia it was one of the happiest days of 
 my life. I'm not a die-hard RPG fan, but I've always loved playing the "Tales of" series. There's 
 just something about the characters that makes you so interested in them and their fates. I mean 
 Tales of Symphonia gave us Kratos, one of the Coolest RPG characters of all time! And in Dawn of 
 the World its no different. When I started this game I couldn't help but compare it to ,of course, 
 Tales of Symphonia, but Tales of Vesperia also. I just felt like they borrowed a couple of features 
 from Vesperia. Mainly the combat. For those of you that have played Vesperia you know what I'm 
 talking about, but for those of you that haven't, here's how it works. Like in Tales of Symphonia 
 you can move forward and back, but in Vesperia, you can move all around the arena by holding down 
 a button and moving the joystick. In Dawn of the New World you still move like you do in Symphonia 
 but you can hold down the "Z" button and move your character all around. Now what this allows for 
 is the ability to get around your enemies and possibly surround them (which is the key to defeating 
 some bosses) . But feature that they left out from Vesperia is the ability for your party members 
 to use items during combat (I don't remember if they could in Symphonia) . But I know in Vesperia 
 during battle a little bubble would pop up above the characters portrait and show the item they 
 want to use and you could cancel them using it by hitting a button or you could ignore it and they 
 would use it after about four seconds. I liked this feature because it let you focus more on what 
 you are doing instead of worrying about healing or curing your party members.
  Alright the next thing I should talk about is the story. I'm sorry but I haven't finished the game 
 yet so I'll tell you what I think so far. If your wondering how the world could possibly get into 
 trouble again then you probably havn't played too many RPGs. Yes you saved the world in the first 
 game but the developers actually made a pretty good story, even if it does revolve around the old 
 concept of revenge and a couple other cliche topics. I'll try to give you a brief run down of the 
 plot (if thats even possible. This IS an RPG after all) . After the journey of world regeneration, 
 the two worlds of Sylverant and Tethe'alla were formed into one world. Alls good right? Wrong! 
 *sigh* Since the Tethe'allan's tech level is so high compared to the Sylveranti they look down 
 at them as barbarians. Some of the Sylveranti form a liberation group known as the Vanguard. Of 
 course this upsets the church of Martel which has sided with the Tethe'allans and they start a 
 violent put down of this group. Oh, and the weather is all screwed up. When the game told me this 
 in the beginning I was like "Hey I guess I'm a part of this group because they sound like the good 
 guys!" Nope, there are basically no "good" guys in this game, which is one thing I find kinda irritating 
 about the story. See you play as a kid named Emil, and in the beginning of the game Emil's parents 
 get killed. By who? Lloyd! Confused? So am I. Apparently Lloyd is the "enforcer" of the church 
 of Martel and he's killing people suspected of being in the Vanguard. Emil is in Palmacosta when 
 a "blood purge" occurs and his parents get killed by Lloyd so he's off to get revenge. But while 
 he's running away in the city he meets a strange girl. She's being pursued by soldiers and they 
 want the strange gem she's carrying. Anyway she prayes to the gem and is teleported near Emil. 
 When she wakes up she makes her escape and so does Emil. Well Emil goes and lives with his Aunt 
 and Uncle in Luin, who hate him, and their not alone. The entire town hates him because they think 
 he's responsible for the increase in monsters in the area, and because he hates Lloyd, which doesn't 
 go over well with the town's people (you know why if you've played the first game) . Anyway Emil 
 goes to what used to be Luin's lake to check out a mysterious noise and there he finds Marta. She 
 recognizes him and is convinced he saved her in Palmacosta. Emil doesn't seem to recognize her 
 and...*sigh*, this is taking forever. Ok, Emil becomes a knight of Ratatosk (monster lord) and 
 must awaken all the centurians (like summon spirits but they rule a certain element and the corresponding 
 monsters) . For the entire game your party consist of Emil, Marta and whatever monsters you've recruited. 
 This brings up Dawn of the New World's most interesting and potentialy game ruining feature. See, 
 when you get into a fight, depending on where you are, theres an elemental symbol at the bottom 
 left of the screen. Now you can change this symbol by performing certain action, be it healing 
 or attacking because each "arte" as their known in the game, has an elemental sign attatched to 
 it and if you perform an arte with, lets say a fire attribute, 3 times in a row it changes the 
 elemental sign for the battle. This gives you a chance at recruiting a monster you were just fighting 
 if the elemental symbol is the same for one of the monsters. If you do get a to recruit a monster 
 theres a certain percentage of the chance you'll actually recruit said monster. Of course the bigger 
 the monster the harder it is to recruit it. Once these monsters are recruited you can have them 
 as members of your party and they will level up and get new abilities just like a normal human 
 member. The only differences between the two is that monsters can't use items and you lose if you 
 get killed even if there are monsters left fighting. But the good thing is monsters can evolve 
 into more powerful monsters at a certain level. This is done by feeding them food you cook from 
 recipes you get from the Wonder Chef. (I'm happy there's actually a reason to hunt down that stupid 
 chef!) Oh, and you probably already know this, or have at least heard of it, but you do run into 
 the original party members of the first game. They join your party from time to time to help you 
 find Lloyd, because apparently their looking for him too.
  Ok, those are the basics of the game, so now its time for my complaints and random thoughts.
 
  First of all I have to say that the graphics look like they took a shot in the nads. I mean I 
 was hoping that the game would look as good, if not better than the first, since its on the Wii, 
 and its been several years, but no. Gone are the cell shaded characters and colorful environments. 
 Replacing them are dull, bleak colors and textures. The towns you visit have a little more detail 
 than before but thats the only thing. And don't even get me started on the characters! Don't get 
 me wrong, I love the character, (Martas sooo cute and Emil looks way cooler than Lloyd, even if 
 he is a wuss. I like them better than Lloyd and Colette. Don't hate me for it!) its just that their 
 faces are pasted onto their bodies, (you can actually see the lines) they look unrealistic when 
 holding or touching anything, and their expressions look robotic, and sometimes silly. The game 
 is also a lot shorter (I know I haven't beat it yet but I bought the guide book and it says its 
 only 8 chapters long, and I'm already at 5, with about 10 hours or more of gameplay. But I guess 
 thats about it for the bad stuff, so now on to random thoughts. One thing they left out is the 
 Overworld. This can be interpreted as either good or bad. Personaly I didn't really care because 
 it moves the game along faster since you don't have to wander from one town to the next. But it 
 also makes the game seem a lot smaller. Another thing that I wanted to say is that Emil and Marta 
 make one of the best couples to date! If you thought Lloyd and Colette went too slow, you won't 
 be saying that now! Marta says "I love you!" within minutes of leaving Luin with her in the beginning 
 of the game! And she is just so cute! Of course the skits are back and Marta and the centurian 
 of darkness, one of characters you meet early on, make them absolutely hilarious! I can't really 
 think of anything else to say. If your already a "Tales of" fan your probably already going to 
 get this, but if your not I suggest getting Tales of Symphonia first. Its one of the greatest RPGs 
 to date, and it'll set you up for this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kayos90
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Tales of Symphonia: Dawn of the New World Review
  
  Story ----------- 8.0
  Gameplay ----- 7.0
  Graphics ------- 7.0
  Sound ---------- 8.0
  Tilt/Value ----- 8.0
  
 
  Story ----------- 8.0
  
  The story begins 2 years after the events of Tales of Symphonia with the main character Emil Castagnier 
 and Marta Lualdi. The world of Tethe'alla and Sylvarant that was separated in the previous game 
 has now been combined into one single unified world due to the actions of the Chosen's group during 
 the World Regeneration. However, even though the worlds are now combined into one there are strange 
 weather occurrences happening all over the world. As if that was not enough, the Tethe'allans are 
 discriminating against the Sylvaranti due to their lack of technological development. This type 
 of action causes a battle to break out between the religious group called the Church of Martel 
 from the Tethe'alla and the Vanguard, also known as the Sylvaranti Liberation Front. 
  
  One day a massacre happens in a city called Palmacosta due to the city's association with the Vanguard. 
 The Church of Martel uses this opportunity to wipe out the city's population without mercy; this 
 was called the Blood Purge. In the midst of the slaughter, a young girl named Marta runs through 
 the city hoping to escape with a strange jewel. Unfortunately the girl is cornered by the Church 
 but fortunate enough to be saved by a mysterious yellow haired boy. The boy walks away from the 
 girl and the story continues when they are reunited 6 months later.
  
  Tales of Symphonia had a complex story line for the genre at the time but not enough to dazzle 
 any fans of the genre. Regardless of how gamers criticize Symphonia, the story is something that 
 people remember very well as one of their fan favorites. As a result of this, a direct sequel called 
 Dawn of the New World (or Knight of Ratatosk in Japanese) is created to further develop and tell 
 what happened after Lloyd, the main character of the first game, and his friends finished their 
 journey. Although the story doesn't match up to the magnificence of Symphonia because of the lack 
 of "epicness" and length, Dawn of the New World does a sufficient job enough to please the fans 
 and satiate some of the RPG hungry gamers on the Wii. 
  
  The story's main strength lies in the interaction between Emil and Marta, the two main characters 
 of the game, and their relationship with each other. The conversations that they hold together 
 and the actions that occur because of their bond is something that holds this game together regardless 
 of how bad certain aspects of the game gets. Emil, the male protagonist, is a fascinating character 
 in that he experiences dynamic change throughout the game and is very evident. Marta, the female 
 protagonist, is Emil's buffer and support and helps to complicate the story and the situation for 
 the better. With all said and done, or with all things watched and heard, the game does a good 
 job with the story on many portions, and even better than a few RPGs, but it has its shortcomings.
 
  
  The main shortcoming to this game is that confusion will often occur if the player didn't play 
 the first game. Because this game is a direct sequel to it, players will need to have prior knowledge 
 of the game in order to grasp certain aspects of the story and the drama that occurs later on, 
 although optional. Even though the players can understand what is going on by browsing through 
 online sources to find out what happened, or by listening in on some of the extra conversations 
 offered throughout the game, this isn't something that can be easily remedied unless you play the 
 first game. However, this doesn't mean that the story of the game is bad, the story is quite good 
 and stands on its own feet, but this is a game meant to be played by the fans and understood by 
 the fans also.
  
  Gameplay ----- 7.0
  
  The gameplay in DotNW is very solid, in fact there are few minor errors in the main formula at 
 all, but there are technicalities here and there that ultimately bring DotNW to a second-rate RPG. 
 The game is a very typical RPG with the player controlling a main character in an area and then 
 goes into a battle when he runs into a monster in dungeons. The game utilizes typical RPG mechanics 
 but adds in certain things into the mix to create an identity of its own. 
  
  One of the main things that the Tales of franchise has been widely known for is its fun and addicting 
 battle system. They have vastly improved the battle engine from the previous Symphonia game but 
 nothing compared to the new engine that Tales of Vesperia runs. The engine that runs DotNW is called 
 Flex-Range Element Enhanced Linear Motion Battle System or FREE-LMBS in short. When a player runs 
 into a monster in a dungeon, a battle will occur where the player is placed in a battle area with 
 4 characters. The player controls one character and the other three are run by an AI. The battle 
 area is a very large circle with invisible boundaries. When battling with the character that the 
 player controls there are two types of attack buttons which are normal attacks and Artes. Normal 
 attacks are done by clicking the A-button near an enemy and Artes are accessed by the B-button 
 with a direction on the Nunchuck joystick. The battle is very quick and very fast paced. 
  
  Along with the regular attack buttons players are granted a few more features that they can 
 use in combat. When fighting an enemy the player fights a single monster on a linear plane, however, 
 by holding the Z-button the player has the ability to Free-run wherever he chooses. The battle 
 is very accessible with this feature and is a necessity. Along with the Free-run ability, Unison 
 Attacks make a return in the game. Although, the depth of this feature has gone down it is still 
 a very helpful feature. When attacking or attacked, a bar below the character's status bars fills 
 up. After the bar has been filled up a certain amount the player can Unison Attack. The last notable 
 feature about DotNW is that monsters can be used on your side when battling. When Emil defeats 
 a monster in battle, he may have the option to make a pact with it and make it fight on your side. 
 Although this feature feels a little gimmicky, it is a necessity when players are playing on the 
 harder difficulties. The player has the option to evolve the monsters and teach it a variety of 
 skills. The depth that the game offers in monster customization is very well implemented. Eventually, 
 your monsters might even best the human characters that you might recruit later on in the game.
 
  
  When the player isn't battling, he will control Emil and navigate him around the various areas 
 that you will explore. These locations can range from a snowy city or a hot desert temple. Players 
 can buy new items and restock on healing items in towns, while they may encounter grunt enemies 
 in dungeons to proceed through the plot. There isn't much slowdown in the story at all due to its 
 length and the gameplay flow is very consistent throughout. Each town has its own unique identity 
 and the dungeons have a different puzzle that the player must figure out before proceeding to another 
 area. Although veterans of Symphonia might find the rehash of certain areas tedious, the game stays 
 consistent with many places staying the way it used to be. Unfortunately, the game has now World 
 Map travel. To be more precise, traveling from one area to another no longer requires the player's 
 exploration of the world and instead uses a single button to go from one place to another. This 
 "point and click" system on the world map cuts down major traveling time in the game but removes 
 the fun and exploration of the world that many RPGs have to offer. 
  
  The mechanics that DotNW implements are well done and make the game very enjoyable. The battles 
 are very satisfying and the amounts of sidequests or extras are enough to satisfy a game of this 
 magnitude. The overall gameplay portion isn't something that many previous games of the genre can 
 beat but can be overlooked when compared to Tales of Vesperia or Final Fantasy.
  
  Though there are many things to be praised about in DotNW's gameplay mechanics there are minor 
 problems that deter the game's overall playability. There isn't anything major that brings the 
 quality of the game down but when the minor mistakes are added up, there seems to be a lack of 
 refinement. The first major thing that can be noticed around 2 hours into the game is frame-rate. 
 The game flows very very nicely through the game but there are portions of the game where the frame 
 rate drops and the movements of characters become jagged. 
  
  Another problem with the game is the uncontrollable difficulty. The grunt fights are unbelievably 
 easy for the player to complete the boss fights are considerably different. The first problem that 
 the boss fights have is that the players will most likely die to them once or numerous times before 
 actually beating the boss. This is due to immense amount of damage that the boss inflicts upon 
 you. Not only that, but the recovery time given for you to escape chained attacks will not always 
 be sufficient, causing your death. Skill is something that players will need but also patience, 
 and maybe a couple of your friends to help with the boss fights. To only add the difficulty of 
 the fights are the Mystic Artes. Mystic Artes are the ultimate moves granted to each player character 
 in the game, and majority of the bosses. The move is virtually inescapable and will ultimately 
 cause your characters to fall to 1 HP. This is nearly unacceptable as the players will be harshly 
 punished for the gap of difficulty between fights and definitely noticeable on the harder difficulty 
 modes.
  
  The last major minor problem that the game has is the length and feel for the game. The battles 
 are smooth and addictive but the game feels very arcade-like at times and therefore diminishing 
 the feeling of a console game. This isn't a bad thing but if a game feels like this then there 
 is something that gives less value to overall experience of the game. Other than that, the battle 
 portion is very well-implemented and executed. The length is acceptable but is very short for an 
 RPG. The flow of the game, as mentioned, is fairly consistent but at times it feels rushed to the 
 point where the player is bombarded with a series of revelations and plot twists. This isn't anything 
 major and probably adds to the drama that the game offers but one can't but feel a little lost 
 and overwhelmed at times. 
  
  Graphics ------- 7.0
  
  The graphics of the game isn't something that will dazzle many players of the genre but is something 
 that can be tolerated. The whole entire game is graphically consistent as the cutscenes and animations 
 are all done seamlessly. There isn't any change of graphical style other than the anime opening 
 in the beginning of the game. The character models look great, more realistically than Symphonia, 
 and the artistic direction of the game looks better than before also. The only problem that the 
 game has visually is its lack of detail. This graphics engine could probably be used on the Gamecube 
 but somehow Namco-Bandai decided that it was okay to use an "okay" graphical engine. The graphics 
 aren't something that players will be puking over, but it's certainly not the best that it can 
 do on the system. The colors are vibrant but at the same time seem bland. The flashy lights still 
 glow when using certain Artes but other than that, extreme colors are non-existent. Overall, people 
 can't complain about the direction that the game went graphically but one can always advise Namco-Bandai 
 to use a better engine next time.
  
  Sound ---------- 8.0
  
  The sound in the game is exceptional and has come a long way especially when someone compares it 
 to the original Symphonia. 
  
  Music ranges from rehashes of Symphonia to new mixes from DotNW. The music that plays when you 
 explore a dungeon from the previous Symphonia can definitely be a remix of the original tune or 
 the original tune itself. Regardless of the reusing of the same tune, the quality of the tunes 
 is still great. Music doesn't play a major emphasis on the players but is still something nice 
 for them to hear time to time.
  
  Character voices are done exceptionally well for this game and stands out as one of the strong 
 points. Unfortunately people will compare the previous voice actors to the current voice actors 
 and how the new actors are not good but when this difference is set aside the voices are good. 
 Emil has two different personalities and both of them are portrayed very well. The other human 
 casts have voices that fit their personality and their emotions are presented effectively.
  
  The major difference between this game and the previous game is the voiced skits. Skits are 
 fun side-conversations that can be accessed throughout the game. The characters are very emotional 
 in these conversations and the sounds of their hearts are excellently presented. Nothing bad can 
 be said about the sound quality or the overall sound of the game other than the lack of emphasis 
 and supreme excellence.
  
  Tilt/Value ----- 8.0
  
  The game is currently priced at $40 out of the $50 dollars for a full-priced Wii game. DotNW is 
 very short in length only lasting about 20-30 hours on your first playthrough if you rush it. However, 
 the game's playability truly shines when the player plays through it a second time using the GRADE 
 shop. GRADE is something that is earned throughout the game and with it players can use it to buy 
 perks for the next playthrough such as inherit skills, inherits titles, and such. The game is worth 
 playing multiple times and is very amusing for a quick run through such as reading a novel. For 
 not being a full-priced game, DotNW is quite a grab.
  
  Conclusion: Final Score ---------- 7.6
  
  Tales of Symphonia: Dawn of the New World is an excellent 
 RPG with its own merits. The game is very amusing to go through and is very funny at times. DotNW 
 offers something that not many RPGs can do right due to its own separate identity that it holds 
 even though it is an RPG. The game's battle system is very fun and action packed that can easily 
 have a player addicted to it. The story is heartwarming, dramatic, and somewhat suspenseful. The 
 graphics and animations are amazing to look at, especially during cutscene fights. The sound is 
 outstanding due to the great work put by the voice actors. Last but not least, the value that the 
 game has with only $40 is quite a deal. With nearly everything said, Tales of Symphonia does more 
 rights than it does wrongs and the wrongs that it has can be easily overlooked when you enjoy the 
 game. Tales of Symphonia: Dawn of the New World is adventure that fans of the series will not forget. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud14356
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  First thing's first. Pay more attention to the player reviews rather than read the one's from IGN 
 or Gamespot. Player reviews are a lot more reliable, especially in the case of Tales of Symphonia 
 2: Dawn of the New World.
  
  Tales of Symphonia 2: Dawn of the New World is a great game. The cutscenes are great and the gameplay 
 is lots of fun! The only thing that keeps me from giving this a 10 is the voice actors of the characters 
 from the first ToS game. The only one who returned for this one is the voice of Colette, which 
 made me really happy, but everyone else's was changed. But that's only a minor thing, and it shouldn't 
 keep anyone from trying this game out! 
  
  The fighting system has a few cool new changes to it. The unison attacks require more strategy 
 than they did in the last game. Each character or monster in the fight has an innate attribute/magic. 
 The field bar will have different types of magic in 5 different slots, and every character whose 
 attribute magic is located in at least one of the slots will participate in the unison attack. 
 I actually like this, since it makes it a little more challenging. Yes, it's different from what 
 we were used to in the last game, but personally, I like this a lot ^__^! 
  
  Also! The characters are great! Emil may seem annoying in the beginning of the game since he's 
 really apologetic, but come on people, he's a dynamic character! He's meant to grow through the 
 journey and he does! Marta's your warm-hearted sweetheart who oogles over Emil, while still focusing 
 on the journey. And my all-time favorite ToS character so far is Tenebrae. He's a Centurion who 
 looks like a pimped out version of Umbreon from Pokemon (LOLZ!!! XDDDD) 
  
  Overall, I think this game is great! Curse IGN for giving it a suck review! Any Tales of Symphonia 
 fan will like this sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mega_sonic_fan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  ToS 2 is a great game. It has many different varieties to it. The whole making monster pacts and 
 them evolving is really fun as well. Plus it is great that you HAVE to make monster pacts if you 
 want to get more powerful, plus some of the evolutions are REALLY cool looking. Then you can use 
 those monsters to fight with you, but the great thing about leveling them up is that as long as 
 they are in your formation (because you can only have 4 at once) they will gain experience from 
 the battle even if they werent in it. The quick commands are really good to have so you can make 
 other characters you arent controlling do moves when they are necessary and make all your special 
 moves available to you. This game is very well all in all. The dialogue maybe be cheesy at times 
 but what do you expect from teenagers. But it makes me laugh time to time so its all good. Like 
 the subject says, add this game to your Wii collection, you wont be disappointed!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilexValrex
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Where to start... Well, how about the multiplayer function? I first got the game thinking it would 
 be a great sequel to the Original (GC) game, and was excited to see that it was 4 player compatible. 
 However as I progressed further and further, I slowly realized that those are the only two characters 
 you get. (Rumor of getting the entire cast at the end of the game, but still isn't fun if you have 
 to beat the game to have 4 players) .
  
  The personality of the main character is about as entertaining as mud. He apologizes from breathing 
 to even... yes apologizing. (Who says sorry for saying sorry, our wonderful main character, thats 
 who) . The other slut, is what I'll call her because she has practically thrown herself at the main 
 character and wont take no for an answer.
  
  After seeing so many bad things, I was finally able to see a couple of really creative ideas. Poorly 
 performed, but creative none-the-less. I was pleased to hear about capturing monsters and having 
 them battle with you, but wait... what's this... YOU CAN'T PLAY AS THEM. You can't even shortcut 
 their spells, what the hell is up with that? Way to go guys, you picked my hopes up and dashed 
 them in one fell swoop... hope you're happy.
  
  About the only thing that has made the game playable, is the comedy, that is the awkward relationship 
 between the two main characters and Tenebrea. Tenebrea, who has to be the best character in the 
 game, Has singlehandedly kept me playing this dull excuse for a 'Tales' game...
  
  For those who have been a fan of the series since (ToD) you may find this game to be a little disappointing 
 for its many lacking qualities. No impressive magics, no fast pace battles, and even hard mode 
 is a push-over. I'd give it a lower score, but there are a few things that pick the game up... 
 over all, it's a poorly performed sequel that was over-hyped, and couldn't beat the (GC) version. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somgu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 1:21 am PT
Review:  Story:
  After the events of the first you play as Emil who's parents were killed by Lloyd Irving and wants 
 revenge. You come across a girl name Marta who is looking to revive Ratatosk by collecting cores 
 of all 8 elements to stop the causes monsters and weathers around the world. But Lloyd is also 
 looking for the cores for unknown reasons. So you join her to revive Ratatosk. You also meet the 
 other characters on the journey.
  
  Good things:
  - you can now catch monsters to join in battle
  - characters join you
  - skits are now in voices 
 and are very funny
  - can now freerun
  - now actual cutsenses
  - characters now more human like look but still anime like
  - new artes to use
  - places are 
 very similar to the first
  - don't need to swing to wiimote
  - gives more shortcuts for artes
  
  Bad things:
  - can't use a gamecube controller
  - wiimote 
 and nunchuck feel very werid playing for a tales game
  - characters that join cannot change there equipment
  - characters aren't that much detailed
 
  - you use a flat map to move around the world now (battles only fought in dungeon)
  - voice acting for some characters doesn't really seem to suit them especially Emil
  - no japanese 
 voice option
  - they reuse the characters art no new images in states 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CountyChamp
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 9, 2009 9:18 pm PT
Review:  First off, Dawn of the New World (DotNW) is $40. I'm not going waste any time explaining the story 
 but I will mention a few things. DotNW is a sequal to Tales of Symphonia for the Game Cube. You 
 should play through Symphonia if you haven't yet. It is definitely one of the better RPG's of the 
 previous generation and will (obviously) help with the back story of DotNW. The game does a good 
 job explaining most of the main events in Symphonia but you won't appreciate the story as much. 
 Lastly, it's kind of annoying how they didn't use some extra resources to make this game truly 
 amazing. This game could have been more but, this is what we got.
  
  Review.....
  
  Graphics - 7.0. Picture means nothing to me when it comes to RPG's. I do think that the visuals 
 are good however. It has the same look as Symphonia. "Updated" graphics would have been nice but, 
 everything flows very smoothly. 
  
  Story (so far) - 7.5. It might be cheesy and slow at first but, the story picks up. Emil (the main 
 character) isn't much of a hero. He apologizes for apologizing and when hes sorry for apologizing, 
 he apologizes for being sorry. Seriously. When the game gets rolling, Emil learns how to fight 
 and he becomes tolerable. The story is quite entertaining between the humor and action. 
  
  Sounds - 7. PLENTY of voice acting. Some good, some ehhhh. The music is a mix of new stuff and 
 remixes. Some tunes could have used some work.
  
  Gameplay - 8.0. The wiimote works perfectly and nothing is forced. No unnecessary motion controls. 
 It kind of reminds me of Super Mario Galaxy. Also, the monster system adds a cool little touch 
 to everything. Unfortunately you can't play as the monsters and the battle system does get tiresome.
 
  
  Replay Value - 6.5. As far as I know, there is a New Game+ option after you beat the game. I haven't 
 completed the game yet but there are some minor things that don't give you much reason to replay 
 or even finish the game. Biggest letdown = the pointless fetch quests. It's really a shame that 
 developers feel the need to add THE SAME EXACT quests in different towns. When I say THE SAME EXACT 
 quests, I mean you'll do the same freaking quests for a different item every time you get a new 
 set of quests. 
  
  Overall - 7.0. It is a decent sequel to one of the better RPG's. You have to get passed the slow 
 beginning to enjoy this game (about 30 minutes.) . It's really a fan game that comes up short of 
 true greatness. If your on the border, you should think twice about picking DotNW up. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kusann
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 4:14 am PT
Review:  Tales series has been a long runner, coming through since the SNES. We've seen it evolve from 2D 
 battles to 3D ones. It's strong point being this: the battle system which is total fun and satisfying.
 
  
  Tales of Symphonia was doubtless one of the best games released for the GameCube, it was so good 
 that Namco decided to make a port for the PS2 system. ToS is one of the most successful "Tales 
 of" game, if not the most successful.
  
  After 3 years from the first one, the second part of the story is here. Is it really worh the wait?
 
  
  The main plot is a bit weird, but it works. Tethe'allians are like "abusing" Sylvarant people (these 
 2 worlds were united at ToS' ending) and so they begin to fight between each other, Sylvarant people 
 creates a "Resistance group" called "The Vanguard" and so it all begins... the world changes, deserts 
 get frozen, lakes wither, etc.
  
  The first minutes of the game are tiring, and the main character is easily the most pathetic main 
 RPG character EVER, apologizing almost for even existing, he fights awfully slow and well... he 
 sucks. But suddenly it all changes. He's not Lloyd, but he's an interesting character once the 
 game truly begins (which is around 20 minutes of gameplay) .
  
  This is when the battles begin to be as great as in the original GCN title, smoothly animated. 
 Familiar sounds and artes (Demon Fang strikes back!) . The "monster hunting" part is fun and less 
 complicated than what it seems when the game explains what is it about. And it adds a lot to the 
 core gameplay. The free-running is a cool addition to the battle system, you can still make great 
 combos and everything you could do in Tales of Symphonia for the GameCube. Controls are well mapped:
 
  A attacks, B is for Artes, nunchuck's stick is for moving around, while holding Z and moving you 
 activate the free-running thing, Z button alone is for blocking - button changes targets when battling 
 and + opens the menu. Shortcuts for skills can be added to the D-pad, and motions from both the 
 Wiimote and the nunchuck (which I haven't tried yet)
  
  The world exploration is gone, yes, but it kind of reduces "wandering around without any place 
 to go" time wasting to make it more "story developing".
  
  Tales of Symphonia's characters appear here, even though you can't change their equipments, only 
 their skills.
  
  The voice acting is well done, it has a lot more voices than the original game did, almost all 
 the dialogues are actually spoken (except for NPCs and such) , the "skit scenes" are some times 
 fun and they're all voice acted as well.
  
  The story keeps you interested and the game grows on you as you play more and more, just like the 
 original did.
  
  Finally, if you liked Tales of Symphonia, this game is worth trying out, it may not reach GCN's 
 greatness, but it'd be like reaching Ocarina of Time's. This game is great and fun. And seeing 
 the lack of RPGs for the Wii system, this title will keep us busy for more than 15 hours, easily. 
 
  
  I recommend this game to all RPG fans, and ToS fans... really... you must play this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kuja_tribal
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Its almost impossible for me to give an honest to gods unbiased, detached review of this game being 
 a very notable fan of the first one for anyone that knows me. So I'll get to the meat of the matter 
 quickly first.
  
  If you haven't played any of the tales series games before you might want to give this game a miss. 
 
  
  If you have, well people it's a solid RPG on the Wii! What the hell are you waiting for, this genre 
 is about as desolate and empty as the sahara on a sabbath in terms of the Wii. Fans of the genre 
 who mistakenly bet on the wrong console are going to want this little number in their collection.
 
  
  Now it's not a 'Main' title, you've got to realize that. Namco haven't pumped much funding, time 
 or effort into really making this idea shine, and I feel a little peeved that they used Symphonia's 
 popularity to try and make this game idea sell instead of spending the necissary resources for 
 it. I know that this team is scrapped together by whoever was lying around the NamcoTales office 
 from all of 'Team Symphonia' 'Team Destiny' and 'Team Legendia/Etc'.
  Emil will annoy you for a long time, you'll be begging for Lloyd to show up and stick a sword in 
 that grating little emo child, and prance along happily with the dear old happy-go-lucky idiot 
 again. Only problem is, most of the cast of the Old symphonia seems to have been bitten with the 
 angsty-bug and alot of the story just feels...'tired' until much later when a prickly little girl 
 called Alice makes her grand entre. 
  
  The game play is noticably Abyss-style, employing the refined Multi-flex linear motion battle system, 
 which unlike the first game allows the player to move all around the battle field, instead of just 
 back and forth with varying camera angles. It works well and theres really no hiccups to report, 
 it's your standard RPG battles, with namco's own little sprinkle of fighter-esque style combat. 
 Beats standing in a row contemplating in what way you'd like to beat up your enemy the worst and 
 how flashy you want to make it. Skills are optional with the nunchuck or Wii motion censor.
  
  The tales series does a marvellous job of making you think quick while fighting and that's 
 always been it's merit. This game is no exception to that. 
  
  The sound. 'Yawn'. Rehashes of the old music, not very artistically done either. Somthing an extra 
 solid weeks worth of work could have fixed.
  Fans of the old cast might want to take a few deep breaths before they take the big step into the 
 'new world' because you're going to be seeing alot of recasting. Except for Colette. And Heather 
 Hogan sounds noticably less annoying than she did in the first. Points for that but it won't save 
 the rest of the cast. So be warned all ye ears who enter here. Scott Menville missing is the biggest 
 blow to the game's cast and Brian Beacock just isn't up to par despite his previous attempts at 
 Lloyd in Radiant Mythology and Soul Caliber Legends. However there may be a surprise return or 
 two in store so don't loose faith entirely.
  
  The graphics are a step up from it's predecessor but honestly, I quite like cell shades. What was 
 stopping Namco from making them 'Better' cell shaded models I'll forever be in the dark about, 
 they look almost stiff in a way... less flexible models than the first tales and I almost mark 
 that as a step down, but alas they work very well for the ingame cutscenes. Some gorgeous work 
 with some of the fight scenes and some truly epic oneliners but this game just doesn't rise to 
 the Symphonia occasion.
  
  The monsters. Well frankly, I played too much pokemon in my youth to de-vole back to that stuff 
 now. I couldn't stomach it and used the cast characters as much as possible. They're far more integral 
 and interesting to the plot, so at least while using them theres an element of empathy you don't 
 get from the monsters.
  There's a 'reason' that trick worked for Pokemon Namco, it's because you can ONLY use pokemon in 
 Pokemon. Did anyone ever honestly like using Cait Sith in Final Fantasy 7 or Quina in 9? I didn't 
 think so. There's a reeeason. Human characters will automatically recieve more empathy from the 
 players than monsters. And this case it just. Doesn't. Bloody. Mix. 
  The idea was stupid, should have been scrapped and this should have been given the 'Main title' 
 treatment it deserved.
  
  However it didn't so take caution both fan and neophyte, it's up to you to take the plunge. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
