-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tamagotchi Party On!
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/puzzle/tamagotchipartyon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Some of the minigames are fun.
 graphics match the game's theme well.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not enough minigames.
 all minigames are single-player.
 agonizingly slow pace of play.
 lame premise.
 game does a poor job of registering gestures.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 31, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 4.3, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 4.7, 64 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco Bandai Games America
Developer: h. a. n. d. Inc.
Genre: Party
Date: May 29, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
You don't want to get invited to this party. 

  Back in 1996, digital pets called Tamagotchi were all the rage. Children couldn't get enough of 
 playing with and cleaning up after their little LCD pets. As with all fads, interest in Tamagotchi 
 quickly waned, but that hasn't stopped the brand from continuing its existence. The latest product 
 to sport the Tamagotchi name is Tamagotchi Party On!, a virtual board game for the Nintendo Wii. 
 It's got plenty of cute Tamagotchis, but it's short on depth and is seriously lacking in the fun 
 department.  

          Parties better than Party On!: Tupperware parties, bachelor parties, House Party...    

  Party On! pits you and up to three friends (or CPU opponents) in a race to become the next president 
 of Tamagotchi planet. The game takes place over seven turns, or as they're referred to in the game, 
 "days." At the end of seven days, the person with the most popularity points wins the election. 
 You can choose to play longer games where there is more than one election (the game defaults to 
 three) , but the game is super slow, so you're looking at an hour and a half if you play three elections. 

  You start by rolling a die and then choosing the direction you want to go. There are multiple boards 
 in the game and each one is connected to a central hub. When the game begins, the location of the 
 campaign space is revealed. You'll want to immediately go to the board that contains the campaign 
 space because getting there first typically gets you enough popularity points to win. There are 
 multiple paths on each board, but they're all connected, so picking your direction all comes down 
 to what type of space you prefer to land on. The board is made up of a few different types of spaces. 
 The main ones are minigames, gotchi games, stores, and events. You can use money you've acquired 
 throughout the game in the store to purchase items that will help increase your popularity. Unless 
 you're playing more than one round, you probably won't be able to afford any of the items. Gotchi 
 games are quick games where you play rock-paper-scissors or other simple games, such as memory. 
 Event spaces are nothing more than brief sequences that show you doing something good, like breaking 
 up a fight, or doing something bad, like falling down. If it's a good event, you'll gain popularity, 
 but if it's something bad, you might wind up losing a whole turn.  

  Minigames are the big draw here, but that's not saying a whole lot. There are 15 different minigames 
 that will have you use the Wii Remote to wash windows, shake hands, flip the pages of a book, scoop 
 fish out of a stream, and even drive a car. These games are mildly entertaining, but the game does 
 a poor job registering movement. Another issue is that the games are all single-player only. However, 
 worst of all, there are so few minigames that it's possible to play an entire round without ever 
 playing a single minigame.  

  How everything fits together is what really ruins the Party On! Experience. The pace of play is 
 absolutely terrible, and that's even taking into account the fact that you don't have to watch 
 all of your opponents take their turns (just part of them) . Because you can go an entire round 
 without landing on a minigame space, the game's dreadfully boring. Even if you do land on a few 
 minigames, they don't spice up the action for long. The game's also poorly balanced. With the CPU 
 opponents set to "easy," we still lost miserably when we lost our turn three times in one round. 
 That's right, of the seven turns in the game, six of them went as follows: land on event space 
 and lose turn, sit out turn, land on event space and lose turn, sit out turn, land on event space 
 and lose turn, sit out turn. There's a challenge mode that lets you skip the board game and only 
 play minigames, but you've got to unlock a minigame in the board game before you can play it in 
 the challenge mode.  

          political parties, birthday parties, House Party 2, surprise parties     
 

  Party On! is a simple-looking game with a look that should appeal to younger children. The Tamagotchi 
 are all quite large and display a range of emotions based on what's happening in the game. The 
 cel-shaded boards are also quite simple, but they fit the theme well and are quite colorful. The 
 audio is similarly lighthearted. It's not bad, though some may find the music a bit irritating 
 after awhile.  

  If there's one thing the Wii has in spades, it's party games and minigame collections. With so 
 many good games already out there, it's impossible to recommend a game like Party On! It's boring, 
 there aren't enough minigames, and you can't play any of them with friends.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: VampireFaith
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 9, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  This game must be directed towards a very young audience because reading a review that says "It's 
 better than Mario Party" almost makes me sick to my stomach! 
  
  This game wants to be similar to mario party, as in the way you move around a board game like scenario 
 and see who is the winner afterwards. But there are absolutly no other similarities other than 
 that. 
  
  I believe this game was meant for a very young audience, but I cannot even see a young child being 
 amused by this game. The only control you have to do is hold the A button and swing the remote 
 down to roll the dice. The game does every other action for you. 
  
  When you start the game you have absolutely no idea what is going on because it gives you no direction 
 at all. You get to choose between 4 Tamagotchi players and then the game starts.
  
  This game is terrible, and I recommend it to nobady, no matter how young they are. It's that bad.
 
  
  Summary: Don't buy this game! If your child can read, they are already too advanced for this horrific 
 game.
  
  Graphics: 6 (It is very bright and happy looking, what you'd expect from Tamagotchi related games. 
 Cute and engaging looking)
  
  Audio: 3 (The dice make a cute sound when you roll?)
  
  Replay value: ? (No idea because I shut it off after 3 turns)
  
  Controls: 1 (You only have 
 one button to press during the whole game. You get to roll the dice and that's it!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plasmaeagle14
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 22, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Tamagotchi party on is a classic mario party type game!
  This game contains 
  
  . Fun motion party games
  
  .unlockable contents 
  
  .Amazing grapics for a wii game! (wow! 
 i was shocked)
  
  tamagotchi has advanced rapidly throughtout the years, now producing
  a fabulous nintendo wii game for the whole family! the aim of the game
  is to compete against 
 3 other tamagotchis (either your fmaily or friends or
  the computer) and earn special election points then head for each election
  space by passing 
 event spaces and minigame spaces. this will then give you a mega salary and reputation allowing 
 you to purchase new item for 
  your headquaters or expand its area. once done head for the other elections
  to earn your worthy 
 badges and unlock over 15 different tamagotchis in addition to over 30 badges!
  Also this game has stunning three dimensional grapphics giving
  the wii an extra boost to becoming 
 HD!
  
  gameplay: 85% a great game for te family!
  
  lifespan : 90% this game will take for ever to unlock all the tamagothis in addition to bages (a 
 good few months)
  
  grapphics:94% stunning for a wii game!
  
  In conclsion this game is excelent for a happy family night in!
  
  RECOMENDED BY PLASMA EAGLE 
 14! (ME)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 21, 2007 11:46 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a bih fan of the Tomagotchi games that have come out on the DS so I was so excited 
 to see it was coming to the WII. Then I bought it and thought to myself WHY in the World did they 
 change the game play into a sad Mario Party wanta Be with Bad mini games. You are rolling to move 
 around the town (game Board) to get to the end and have the most money or votes so you can be the 
 Major? It was so bad that I could not bring myself to shut it off because I thought surely it would 
 get better but sadly it did not! They should have made it like the corner shop games they have 
 out for the DS because this game was BROKE DOWN! It is not worth the money you would spend just 
 to rent it! I would vote this game as Worst WII game of the year and I have played some stinkers! 
 Do not Buy this game! It is really really borng and bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kat95
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  The Tamagotch is a handheld digital pet created in 1996 by Aki Maita and sold by Bandai. Kids would 
 feed it, clean up after it, and play with it. It grew so popular that some schools started banning 
 them because very few minutes kids would disrupt class to check on them. These cute lil' critters 
 have already had two games on the DS and or now venturing to the Wii. Which is quite unfortunate 
 because this game, to put it bluntly, is very very bad. Graphics
  The look of this game is very much early kindergarten. The opening scene and intro sections are 
 all 2-D and look like they were drawn by children. This game probably would not look much different 
 on an N64.
  
  Gameplay
  You and your friends are playing an electronic board game. You roll dice and move accordingly around 
 the board. Most spaces you land on are event spaces. Some event happens that will usually increase 
 or decrease your popularity. These spaces aren't terribly interesting. Next there are your minigame 
 spaces. Unfortunately there are such few spaces that you can go turns without playing a minigame. 
 The gotchi spaces have little micro games. This includes rock paper scissors and memory. Then store 
 spaces which are only useful if your games is lasting more than 1 round. All this makes the game 
 terrible. It's like some kind of endurance challenge. If you have three rounds the game can last 
 up to 1 hour and 30 minutes. Some mingames are fun, but most of the time your waiting for your 
 turn. Even then, the spaces are too infrequent..
  
  Music
  The music is okay, but gets annoying after a while. Difficulty
  The game is too luck based to 
 really know. Bottom Line:
  If you have any self respect let you and your family avoid this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I_Smash_You_Bro
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 7, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  This is most Likely the worst Wii game ever. The game is about ant things Trying to be a president 
 by stealing Money and making fun of people. You might be wondering why everything has a face and 
 why you paid $40 for this game. The mini games are real simple and easy to get perfect scores on 
 them. Every time you complete an election you get a new drug attic ant. Don't put more then four 
 elections when you play it or it will take hours to complete. This game is really for die hard 
 tamagotchi fans like the Human Torch. If you where just going to get this for a party game don't 
 you will most likely get bored just after 5 minutes. And if you were on a budget get Resident Evil 
 4 Wii Edition. Well their isn't really much more to talk about this game besides it sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benjaminjoel
Rating: 2.7
Date: Jun 16, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  I respectfully disagree with that first reviewer. This game is so horrifically busted that not 
 even its own mother could love it. In fact, I would wager that Tamagotchi Party On would be a perfect 
 addition to the arcade in Hell.
  
  The basic premise is that you must take control of a cutesy Tamagotchi character and help them 
 become the next president of Tamagotchi planet. To do that, you must rack up the most money and 
 popularity in a Mario Party-esque board game.
  
  This is, at heart, a Mario Party clone. Yet it is light-years worse.
  
  Party On can be played 
 with up to 4 human players, but even if you play alone, the game MUST have four participants. Therefore, 
 the remaining slots will be filled by computer-controlled bots. (Hey, a rhyme!) It takes place 
 over seven turns, or 'days.' At the end of the seventh day, the player with the most popularity 
 wins the game.
  
  There are several types of spaces on the board. Land on a minigame space, and it's off to some 
 random challenge. Minigames require that you use the Wiimote to wash windows, shake hands, or drive, 
 among other things. Gotchi games are much simpler, like rock-paper scissors or memory. However, 
 all minigames are SINGLE-PLAYER. Plus, there are so few of them that you can actually go an entire 
 game without playing a single minigame.
  
  The Wii's current library shows that it is THE system to have when you have friends over. With 
 so many similar but MUCH BETTER party games for the system (Rayman Raving Rabbids, Super Monkey 
 Ball, WarioWare, Mario Party 8, Sonic and the Secret Rings, etc.) Tamagotchi Party On isn't even 
 worth a rental. You would get much more bang for your buck buying the LCD virtual pet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luffy513
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 31, 2007 10:54 pm PT
Review:  If you were a fan of Tamagotchi way back when the first virtual pets came out and you still are, 
 then this game is for you. I, myself, can't get enough of the adorable inhabitants of the Tamagotchi 
 planet. I've played Corner Shop 1 &amp; 2, plus I get the latest virtual pets, so I know what I'm 
 talking about when it comes to this game.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is fun, although the minigames may not be multiplayer. My brother and I often find 
 ourselves yelling things like Oh, let's see what the computer gets this time? You'll be doing things 
 like shaking peoples hands or driving a car that picks up litter from the road. They're simple, 
 but pretty enjoyable. There are also virtual pet-styled minigames as well, that feature you using 
 the Wii Remote's d-pad as the A , B , and C that are present on the virtual pet. While these games 
 are simplistic, like opening umbrellas and catching blobtchis , they earn you Gotchi (the Tamagotchi 
 currency) and are fun to see if you can beat all 5 rounds of the minigame. It's also fun just to 
 roll the die! Hold in A and swing down to hit the see-saw with a hammer that flings the die in 
 the air. Just watching it is funny, because it bounces all over the play. I think the gameplay 
 is fun and, unlike the Gamespot review, I find that it registers the movements very well.
  
  Graphics:
  I rated the graphics a 10 because it fits the style perfectly. Tamagotchi is meant 
 to be a cartoon-like, fantasy setting, which it is. It looks just like the characters on the boxart, 
 virtual pet, and past Nintendo DS games. There are no frame-rate drops, and the graphics look very 
 smooth with little-to-no rough edges.
  
  Sound:
  The music isn't that impressive, but it's pleasent and make for a good mood to play the game. For 
 instance, one of the boards is a ninja-board and the style is somewhat similar to the anime Naruto 
 . You know, ninja-styled. Another board is underground, and the music is kinda sleazy-sounding. 
 Stylistically, it's good, but not fantastic.
  
  Value:
  The value is pretty good for $40, but it would've been a little better priced at $30, just because 
 of content. There aren't near as many minigames as there are in Mario Party 8, though enjoyable.
 
  
  Overall, I recommend this game for anyone that has been into Tamagotchis for a while, or for parents 
 that have children into Tamagotchi, because they will simply love this game. There are plenty of 
 unlockable characters, 15 in all, and you get one every time you finish a full round of the game 
 (all the days you selected) . For Tamagotchi fans, this is a must-buy. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
