-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tenchu: Shadow Assassins
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/tenchu4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Violent instant kills.
 Stirring music.
 Impressive cutscenes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Awkward movement controls.
 Broken stealth gameplay.
 Aggravating first-person swordfights.
 Flawed enemy AI.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 19, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 6.9, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 134 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Acquire
Genre: Historic Action Adventure
Date: Feb 5, 2009
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tenchu: Shadow Assassins attempts to sneak in the footsteps of its stealthy predecessors but ends 
 up a stumbling, bungling mess. 

  The best games in the Tenchu series earned their black belts with engaging stealth action that 
 challenged players to think creatively and use a variety of cool ninja tactics. Although Tenchu: 
 Shadow Assassins mimics the format of its betters reasonably well, it never actually gets it right. 
 The stilted controls and broken stealth logic not only make it hard to feel like a ninja, they 
 also make it hard to have any fun. The solid visuals and stylish music can't mask the fact that 
 Shadow Assassins is an exercise in frustration.  

            One of these guys won't need to pay his taxes this year.      

  Tenchu: Shadow Assassins 
 takes place in feudal Japan and brings back two protagonists that fans of the series will recognize 
 instantly: Rikimaru and Ayame. The familiar kidnapped princess/kingdom in peril story unfolds twice, 
 once from each ninja's perspective, and dovetails into a bizarre and surprisingly morbid ending. 
 The cutscenes that tell the story are impressive, and you'll enjoy watching the detailed, fluidly 
 animated characters play their parts in the serviceable narrative. There are some weird spots, 
 notably the melodramatic voice acting and the Japanese merchant who speaks with a Cockney accent, 
 but on the whole these cutscenes are a pillar of the generally impressive presentation. Environments 
 are well detailed, and the musical score is an enjoyably modern interpretation of traditional Japanese 
 themes.  

  Though you play as two different ninja, their abilities are identical. The gameplay consists primarily 
 of sneaking through levels while killing or evading guards. Hiding in the clearly marked shadow 
 areas will totally conceal you from view and let you instantly kill any enemy who comes within 
 your reach. These quick kills, called hissatsu, require you to follow onscreen prompts and perform 
 the corresponding remote motions or button presses. The satisfyingly brutal hissatsu are fun to 
 perform and include such classic kills as snapping an enemy's neck and eviscerating him with his 
 own sword. The cleverly designed stealth meter will help you stay hidden; it's an image of the 
 moon that will shine brightly when you're exposed, cloud over if you're hidden, and is surrounded 
 by stars that represent the positions of your enemies.  

  Staying in cover is crucial, so it's aggravating when the awkward controls hinder your movements. 
 Both ninja move at a sneaking pace, which means that you'll do a lot of slowly walking between 
 shadows (running will always attract the guards) . Unfortunately, it's often unclear which environmental 
 elements you can easily move through and which will impede your progress, which makes for some 
 frustrating hang-ups. If you are close to cover or get spotted, you can shake the remote quickly 
 to roll into cover or away from your enemy. This is usually a helpful move, but sometimes you may 
 end up inadvertently rolling sideways into a fire or backward off of a cliff. You can also jump, 
 which is useful for getting up into the rafters or onto a roof, especially given that the grappling 
 hook from earlier Tenchu games is not available. However, the jumping motion is so jerky that it's 
 best to rely on the onscreen prompts that tell you when there is a ledge overhead. Any attempt 
 to jump around the environment is likely to meet with invisible walls or alerted guards, and the 
 few times you have to jump over gaps are downright treacherous.  

           Ayame's Mind's Eye reveals an enemy just waiting to get his neck snapped.      

  You 
 can use your Mind's Eye ability to spot guards, pinpoint shadow areas, and even see the guards' 
 line of sight. If you are discovered and fail to dodge away quickly, you will be forced into a 
 confrontation. If you don't have a sword in your inventory, you will vanish in a cloud of smoke 
 and crow feathers, and then restart at the beginning of the area. If you have a sword, you will 
 switch into a first-person view and fight the guard. You and your opponent switch off attacking 
 and defending. You swing the Wii Remote to attack, and defend by positioning the remote according 
 to the onscreen prompts. If you lose (which you often will) , you'll return to the beginning of 
 the area; win, and you'll deliver a death blow and go on your merry way. The remote is not very 
 responsive in these encounters, and blocking enemy attacks is prohibitively difficult. Oddly, Tenchu: 
 Shadow Assassins seems to want you to win swordfights only when it is required, so beating a boss 
 in a duel is much easier than defeating an average foot soldier during the course of a level.  
 

  Shadow Assassins begins to reveal its fatal flaws when you vanish back to the beginning of an area. 
 When you disappear, the guards all return to normal status, regardless of the fact that they just 
 watched a ninja murder their buddy. The dead bodies remain on the ground while other guards resume 
 their patrol, walking right by corpses without blinking. You could conceivably kill a guard, get 
 discovered, vanish, and do it all again until no one is left standing, and only your end-of-level 
 ranking would be adversely affected. This fundamentally undermines the stealth gameplay and makes 
 the whole game feel kind of broken.  

  Other flaws serve only to reinforce this feeling: How is it that a guard wearing an elaborate helmet 
 and mask with two eyeholes has better peripheral vision than an unmasked guard? And then there 
 was the guard that we killed by hitting him into an open flame with a shuriken (admittedly cool) . 
 As his dead body lay burning on the ground, another guard came over to investigate, caught fire, 
 and died. This happened on multiple occasions. If only the second guard had been standing a few 
 feet further away, he wouldn't have noticed his screaming, burning compatriot and would have gone 
 about his business unperturbed. These extreme examples are symptomatic of the general shoddiness 
 that plagues Tenchu: Shadow Assassins.  

           Swordfighting: You're doing it wrong.      

  Items provide another example of how 
 Shadow Assassins just doesn't get it right. You can use a throwing knife to outright kill an enemy 
 ninja in hiding, but patrolling guards will shake off the deadly weapon and go into alert mode. 
 There are helpful items, such as two different explosives and a bamboo water container that lets 
 you snuff out fires, but none is more enjoyable (and outright bizarre) than the Shinobi Cat. This 
 adorable fellow can be found standing like a statue around levels, waiting to be picked up. When 
 you use this "item," you actually control the cat. You can pick up other items in his mouth and 
 bring them back to your character, or you can jump all over guards to send them into alert mode. 
 Guards have the same reaction to being attacked by a berserk housecat as to being stuck in the 
 ear with a shuriken: "Huh? Is someone there?"  

  Tenchu: Shadow Assassins can be called a lot of things, but short isn't one of them. The main campaign 
 will take upwards of ten hours to finish. It's a tough game, and completing missions will give 
 you a sense of satisfaction. Unfortunately, this satisfaction is evenly split between the thrill 
 of victory and the relief of successfully working around the game's various technical hang-ups. 
 If you finish levels with a good ranking, you can unlock extra assignments, which are bonus stand-alone 
 missions with specific challenges that take place in areas that you've already traversed. Acing 
 many levels requires using items only found elsewhere, so you have to revisit a level in order 
 to earn a good ranking just so you can revisit that level again. This would be fine if the levels 
 were fun the first time through, but they usually aren't.  

  Unfortunately, most of the fun there is to be had in Tenchu: Shadow Assassins is overshadowed by 
 the game's pervasive flaws. You're always struggling against the awkward controls to puzzle your 
 way through the pseudostealth missions. Players who like a stiff challenge and don't mind working 
 through a bevy of gameplay issues might find some enjoyment here, but for most folks, it just isn't 
 worth the hassle.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ariadarabi
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2009 9:48 pm PT
Review:  I tried this game with extremely low expectations since gamespot said it was bad. But I really 
 needed a game for my Wii, Wii sports was getting boring. I bought this game. After playing a little 
 bit of it (the game is on pause as I review this) I can say that this game is amazing. It's nothing 
 like the reviewers are saying. The game was MADE for the Wii. You can stab people with your Wii 
 remote, and in order to remove the blade from the corpse, you must twist the blade so it dismantles 
 off the body. You can also break people's necks with the Wii remote, and I don't know... the action 
 just feels great. The Wii remote, even though it is my second favourite consoles I own, is rather 
 amazing. I actually hope that enough people who read this review believe me when I say that it 
 is good. You might be thinking "Stop saying how good it is and tell me more of the good stuff!", 
 I would be glad to! The storyline is simple. You must play the games before it to actually get 
 some of it, but you are basically a ninja hired by a king to restore peace during times of war 
 by investigating a conspiracy of betrayal to the king. One of the king's men hires a fortune teller 
 to tell the future of the kingdom, the fortune teller was an imposter and kidnapped the Princess. 
 You are thrown out into the world, with only your ninja skills in hand, to find her kidnappers 
 and bring her back to the king, no matter what the challenges are ahead.
  
  You should definately buy this game if you want to use the Wii remote a lot with tons of stabbing 
 and neck breaking motions. It's really an amazing game, and it's worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slimdave21
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 20, 2009 5:14 am PT
Review:  Tenchu: Shadow Assasins is the forth installment in the Tenchu series. It's also the first Tenchu 
 game I've played so I'm writing this review from a newcomer's perspective.
  
  
  Gameplay 9.0 / 10
  
  You play as the white hair ninja named Rikimaru and later on as the female 
 ninja Ayame. The story is the basic "Save the princess, Get betrayed by comrades"... But where 
 the story lacks the gameplay exceeds!
  
  The gameplay consists of either killing or sneaking past every enemy in a given area and moving 
 on the next area. There are a few areas per stage. Stages are set at dusk and take place in old 
 fashioned Japanese gardens, temples, or hill sides. The enemies in this game include Samurai, Ninja, 
 Fully-Armored Warriors and Other foes.
  
  The camera is fixed behind your character in a third-person view. It's very similar to Resident 
 Evil 4's behind-the-shoulder camera but a bit less fluid. There are a few camera clipping issues 
 during certain real-time events but they don't hinder gameplay in any way.
  
  Tenchu 4 is a stealth game. This means your trying avoid enemies and by staying out of their sight. 
 Hiding in bushes and the shadows are your best bet for success. You can create shadows by blowing 
 out candles or pouring water onto torches. Items play crucial role for your success.
  
  Here's brief explanation of the items:
  
  Bamboo Tube - Holds water and allows you to put out 
 torches and other flames. It also allows you to swim under water undetected by passing enemies. 
 Bambo Tubes can be refilled while swimming in water or at specific water jugs.
  
  The Shinobi Cat - A cat used for scouting out hidden enemies and can retrieve hidden items for 
 you. When you deploy the shinobi cat you will possess the cat in a third-person view. This is similar 
 to using the Mk 2 (A Small Scouting Robot) in Metal Gear Solid 4.
  
  Shuriken - A Ninja star. Throw these at sniper warriors waiting to kill you.
  
  Kunai - A small 
 throwing knife used for killing ninjas who are lurking in the shadows.
  
  Kasugai - Climbing hooks used for scaling certain walls.
  
  Ninjato Sword - Used for defecting 
 enemy shuriken and sword attacks. It's also used while engaging in motion-based sword battles.
 
  
  Smoke Bombs - Throw these at enemies to blind their line of sight momentarily.
  
  Ghostmaker - An explosive bomb used for exploding new paths and for 1-hit kills.
  
  Fishing 
 Rod - Aim at an item on the ground, swing your Wii Remote and flick back to reel the item in. This 
 is useful for getting items surrounded by enemies.
  
  Rock - These can be thrown at unsuspecting enemies, which will either kill them or annoy them depending 
 on the enemy.
  
  Keys - Used for opening locked doors. (DId I have to explain? :P)
  
  
  Controls 8.0 / 10
  
  Have you ever wanted to snap a person's neck with your bare hands 
 like in the movies?... Here's your chance! That being said, the controls in this game work great 
 but aren't very innovative.
  
  You use the Wii-Mote and Nunchuck combination this game. Here's the basics of how they're laid 
 out:
  
  Control Stick - Moves Character
  
  C Button - Jumps
  
  Z Button - Rotating Camera
  
  D Pad - Item Selection
  
  A Button - Action Button.
  
 
  B Button - Hold down to run
  
  (More variations of these controls are character position based. These variations appear at the 
 bottom of the screen while playing.)
  
  Wii Motion Basics - Swing your Wii remote foward roll from bush to bush undected. Aim throwing 
 weapons by using the motion based pointer; this is similar to shooting arrows in Twilight Princess. 
 You can also go behind an enemy and press the A button to perform a number of Wii context sensitive 
 based attacks. One of these attacks are performed by moving your Wii-mote backwards and your Nunchuck 
 foward to snap the neck of your unsuspecting victim. You can perform these attacks while on rafters, 
 in bushes, under decks and while surrounded by darkness.
  
  Wii Motion Swordplay - If you have obtained a sword you will be able to engage in sword battles. 
 These battles consist of an attack phase and a defense phase. In the attack phase you swing your 
 Wii-mote in the direction of the arrows indicated on the screen and sometimes performing button 
 combinations to hit your enemy. In the defense phase you turn your Wii-mote in the directions indicated 
 on-screen to deflect enemy attacks.
  
  Control Issues - The only main issue I've had with the controls is that if you jump while your 
 running your character comes to a complete stop.
  
  
  Graphics 6.5 / 10
  
  The environments in this game are detailed and beautiful looking... However the character models 
 and cut scenes make this game look like another PS2 port (In this case, a PSP port) . The facial 
 expressions and mouth movements of the NPCs don't match their voices... This makes you feel like 
 your watching an old-school English dubbed Kung-Fu movie.
  
  
  Music / Sound 7.5 / 10
  
  As I said before the majority of the voice acting is atrocious but the soundtrack is great. 
 It's very Japanese inspired and sets the tone for this Ninja themed game.
  
  
  Overall Score 7.75 / 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexh_99
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Tenchu: shadow assassins is a unique game, and is worth playing.
  
  Plot: You play as two ninjas who are sent on missions by the king. you have unique weapons that 
 you must use in order to get past guards, or to kill them. For example a bamboo blow pipe that 
 you shoot water out of to extinguish lights. 
  
  Graphics: the graphics in Tenchu are very good. They are not the best we have seen on the wii, 
 but they are still quite good. The cut scenes between each level are very well done, and the voice 
 acting is very good as well. 
  
  Sound: there is not much music in the game. Only when someone spots you, or someone is close to 
 you the music will become dramatic to make you feel like you are in the game.
  
  Game play: if you have ever played a splinter cell game, just take away guns, and secret agents 
 and replace them with swords and ninjas. You have to be super sneaky, and think of the best way 
 to kill the guards. It normally takes me a couple of times before i figure out what to do.
  
  Controls: the controls in this game are solid. Running, and turning sharp corners are the only 
 tough things to do. Other then that you just control the movement with the analog stick, select 
 weapons with D-pad, use them with B, and attack enemies with A. You use motion controls when killing 
 enemies like stabbing them with their own sword, or by snapping their necks. 
  
  Overall tenchu is a decent game. I don't think it is for everyone. You should buy it only if you 
 are a fan of stealth games. But i think everyone should at least rent it, because it is worth playing 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmpdesign
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 10, 2009 5:57 am PT
Review:  What a horrible game. Thats honestly the first thought that came to my mind when I started it up.
 
  
  Graphics that may have been good over 5 years ago are immediately a dissappointment. As soon as 
 you start the game you are greeted with a poorly done intro of in game graphics attempting to be 
 an intro movie with terrible singing. From there the typical options screen with one major missing 
 feature... no multi player!?! Tenchu 3 had it right, I don't know why they moved away from having 
 2 player options.
  
  So moving on... you start the game, the same exact story as always greets you for the beginning 
 stage goal: Kill the merchant. From there it just goes down hill....
  
  The first really annoying thing youll find about Tenchu is the view point is not like any of the 
 others, its from a semi first person view, similar to Resident Evil 4. Your perspective is irritatingly 
 placed beside your character position so it feels like your character is in a constant strafe mode.
 
  
  It gets worse...
  
  The controls. You are greeted by a tutorial that is about to teach you how to play Tenchu the craptastic 
 way... with the Wiimote. Damn Nintendo and their gimmicky requirements that all their games utilize 
 that piece of garbage.
  
  Your jump is crap, no more big jumps to get out of the way... its barely more than a one legged 
 hop. You are always in a crouching position, so you cant run around either. Performing rolls is 
 done by wildly shaking the Wiimote in random directions.
  
  What in the world were they thinking, and how the hell has this game gotten an 8.8 average user 
 review? There is no way any long time fans of the series enjoy this game, its totally unplayable.
 
  
  The entire basis of the game is just sneaking up on an enemy to perform a take down move combo 
 by again shaking the wiimote in different directions (because quite honestly, the sensitivity of 
 the thing is so bad you cant perform anything accurately) .
  
  Just like the DS Tenchu game (which I pray no one here actually bought) this game is a complete 
 and utter let down of garbage just brought out to utilize gimmicky, not fun controls on a console 
 bent on ruining modern gaming.
  
  I wish Activision would have never sold off the Tenchu name... no one else seems to grasp what Tenchu 
 was supposed to be. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
