-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Ant Bully
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/theantbully/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Tells more of the movie's story.
 decent selection of actions and weapons.
 insect world is larger than life.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Missions lack variety.
 too many cookie-cutter enemies.
 graphics were behind the curve on the GameCube and look downright ancient on the Wii.
 motion-sensing controls seem like an afterthought.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 18, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.7
Critic Score: 4.5, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 4.1, 60 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Midway
Developer: A2M
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Dec 5, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Ant Bully on the Wii is basically the same uninteresting mess that came out for the GameCube 
 six months earlier. 

  Because the Wii is similar to the GameCube in terms of its hardware, it was inevitable that companies 
 would try to capitalize on the Wii launch by quickly porting over games previously published for 
 the GameCube. Of course, you'd reasonably expect the Wii versions of those games to flaunt graphical 
 upgrades and additional content over their earlier GameCube counterparts. However, the Wii version 
 of The Ant Bully isn't any better than the GameCube version that was released six months earlier. 
 The game is still the same repetitive mess that it was on the GameCube, the motion-sensitive controls 
 come across as an afterthought, and the murky graphics haven't improved even though the Wii is 
 supposed to be capable of better.  

          Missions generally involve fighting the same badly rendered pill bugs, spiders, and wasps 
 over and over again.     

  The Ant Bully video game is a far cry from the feature film on which it is based. This 3D action 
 adventure game tries to expand on the movie by putting you through a sequence of 20 missions that 
 delve into what Lucas, the insect-sized boy, went through off camera to learn the ways of the ants. 
 But it mostly succeeds at showing why such events as these weren't portrayed in the movie in the 
 first place. Nearly every mission involves fetching items or fighting the same enemies over and 
 over again. Moreover, the noninteractive scenes that accompany each mission spend more time preaching 
 the story's morals than developing the characters or building toward an exciting conclusion.  

 
  The basic idea here is that you need to explore the environment, find the items you're looking 
 for, and pummel any enemies that cross your path. For exploration's sake, Lucas can run and roll, 
 as well as perform a number of contextual abilities when he's close to specific objects and spots 
 in the environment. When you run off a ledge, Lucas will jump automatically. When you're next to 
 a marked wall, a small rock, or a rose petal, you can push the action button, and Lucas will climb 
 the wall, hoist the rock, or use the rose petal like a glider. In some spots, he can call together 
 nearby ants to form useful structures, such as bridges, catapults, or battering rams. To deal with 
 enemies, you can make use of any of Lucas' four weapons. The wooden stick can be used to attack 
 enemies up close, while sticky silk shooters, dart guns, and bombs let you deal with enemies at 
 a distance.  

  Controls generally involve the use of the analog stick on the Nunchuk and the various buttons on 
 both portions of the controller. The only Wii-specific control enhancements involve shaking the 
 Wii Remote to swing Lucas's stick, shaking the Nunchuk to perform a roll, and tilting the Nunchuk 
 to steer the glider or reposition the camera viewpoint. The game makes so little use of the Wii's 
 motion-sensing capabilities that they're more of a distraction than anything else. However, the 
 development team did tighten up the control response and collision detection in the Wii version 
 of the game. Attacks come out more quickly than they did in the GameCube version, and shots pass 
 through enemies far less often.  

  What kills the game is how the missions are structured. They all feel the same. Supposedly, by 
 speaking to one of the four caste leaders, you'll be sent on a mission involving rescue, scouting, 
 foraging, or all-out combat. In reality, nearly every mission involves either collecting a bunch 
 of esoteric items or fighting the same cookie-cutter enemies over and over again. The game does 
 throw a couple of boss stages into the mix, and you're always free to visit the areas you've previously 
 cleared to hunt for fire crystals at your own pace. But these token nods to adventuring are much 
 too modest to overcome the doldrums brought about by so many lame missions.  

  As it is, the aftermath of each mission tends to be anticlimactic. The ants cheer, the spiders 
 or wasps run off, and Lucas has a brief conversation with one of the other characters. That's pretty 
 much the extent of the game's cinematic aspects. There are a few fleeting bits of humor in the 
 dialogue, but the script tends to hammer home the same moral messages of teamwork and honor at 
 every opportunity. While that's nice and all, Bruce Campbell's legendary talents could have been 
 put to better use on dialogue more suited to his comedic range.  

          The Wii version is graphically identical to the GameCube version. It doesn't even support 
 progressive scan video output.     

  In general, the graphics and audio aren't very good either. The characters are passably animated, 
 but they're not what you'd call detailed or lifelike. The large shrubs and monster-sized insects 
 in the environment succeed in conveying the larger-than-life scale of the insect world; but again, 
 if you stop and look around, you'll notice that the same plants, insects, and objects are recycled 
 constantly. Even more disappointing is that the Wii version of the game pretty much looks identical 
 to the GameCube version. You can see further off into the distance in the Wii version, but the 
 polygon count is still on the low side. The textures are also still blurry and murky. On top of 
 that, this is one of the few Wii games that doesn't support progressive scan video output. That 
 won't be an issue for a lot of people, but anyone who plays The Ant Bully on a large high-definition 
 display is going to be shocked at how soft and blurry the image looks. While the audio isn't much 
 better, the stereotypical jungle beats and orchestral riffs aren't offensive. The generic insect 
 noises and pop-pop sounds at least fit the action.  

  The Ant Bully wasn't a good game when it was released for the GameCube, and it isn't any better 
 now that it's available for the Wii. Being able to attack by shaking the controller doesn't change 
 the fact that the game as a whole is repetitive and tedious. Furthermore, the graphics, which were 
 ugly on the GameCube, look just as bad on the Wii. That's just not right.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: travisstaggs
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 10, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  GOOD GOD STAY AWAY FROM THIS POO MY FRIEND BOUGHT THIS GAME FOR 5 BUCKS.
  
  Graphics: 6/10 just ew kthnx sorry I'm not gonna say much about this crap.
  
  Gameplay: 3/10 
 rubbish broken you want to go one way it takes you another way Sound: ?/10 iunno poop like the 
 rest of the game.
  
  Replay Value: rofl you wont even want to play this the first time.
  
  Overall: god if you could score a game in the negatives I would score this one like -10 I really 
 don't get why companies make crappy games its stupid and pointless and this movie shouldn't of 
 even been turned into a game out of all seriousness I tried to give this game away for free and 
 no one would take it I would throw it away but it would probably hurt my friends feelings since 
 she bought it with her money.
  
  So now imma enter random thoughts just to make a minimum of 800 or whatever the poo, I'm hungry, 
 I wonder when my girlfriends gonna call me back, I wonder how fish required the taste for worms, 
 I wonder what my friend Derrick is up to is this 800 yet GameSpot? rofl 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo1579
Rating: 2.5
Date: May 5, 2008 12:45 am PT
Review:  To be honest with everyone I dont even wanna write a review about this game because it is so CRAPPP!!!!
 
  The Ant Bully on the Wii is basically the same uninteresting mess that came out for the GameCube 
 six months earlier
  its a very bad game!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  as some of you might know kid's movies turned into video game=bad for two reasons.1 it comes out 
 before the movie and if you beat it then whats the point of goint to see the movie when you could 
 just "be in the movie" i hate that stuff "be in the movie."2they are short, look verage movie today 
 is around 2 hours so how could you make a game out of a 2 hour movie? 
  
  Graphics- 2
  Gameplay- 3
  Sound- 1
  Value- 2
  Tilt- 2
  
  overall- 2 (This Game is so CRRAPPP) I gave 
 it a 2 because it is from a movie which kids like
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Awesomo5
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 15, 2008 12:18 am PT
Review:  As i was saying the movie was ok kid bullies on ants, (roll my eyes wierd) gets shrunk, exterminator 
 trying to kill ants. there you go movie review, now lets rewiew this piece dog Vomit on a turd sandwitch. 
 After i saw the movie with my younger friend (8years old) he liked the movie and rented the game 
 for the ps2. we played it sucked and if your kid wants to play this just rent it he willl beat it 
 around 4-7days (been there with Shrek2) . as some of you might know kid's movies turned into video 
 game=bad for two reasons.1 it comes out before the movie and if you beat it then whats the point 
 of goint to see the movie when you could just "be in the movie" i hate that stuff "be in the movie."2they 
 are short, look verage movie today is around 2 hours so how could you make a game out of a 2 hour 
 movie? well lets see Put thing that were not in the movie, Put worthless minigames (so you don't 
 die of boredom) . again with Shrek2 do you remember the part where the gang goes on a cazy cart ride 
 or ride a dragon? They screewed Eragon too. The book one of my favorites turns into a movie and into 
 a game. well if the game came from the book maybe they would put more detail and story into it. So 
 in other words most movie games suck. got that? now go out and buy your kid a racing game or a cartoon 
 shooter oh one more thing.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  IT SUCKS. have a nice day  : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supuhpapuhmario
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 5, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  haha. im the first to rate this stupid game. suckers. oooooooooooooooooo o oooooooooooooooooooooooo 
 ooooooooooooooooooo oooooo o oooooo ooooo o ooooo oooooo oooo oo ooooo ooooo ooo oooooooooo o o 
 oooo oooo oooooo o ooooo oooooooooooo ooooo ooooooooo oooooooooo ooooooo oo ooooooooooooo ooooo 
 ooooo oooo oo o o o o oo o o o o o oo o o o o o o o oo o o o oo o o o o o o o o o o oo oo o o o 
 o o o o o oo o o o o oo o o o o o o o o oo o o o o o o oo oo oo o o o o o oo o o 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
