-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Bigs
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/thebigs/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fast-paced gameplay is fun.
 Pitching and hitting are equally satisfying.
 It's the only full-fledged baseball game on the Wii so far.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A bit shallow, even for an arcade-style game.
 Fielding and base running controls are poor.
 No home run pinball or online play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 26, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.8, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 611 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Developer: Blue Castle Games
Genre: Baseball
Date: Jun 25, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Big strikeouts and even bigger homers make The BIGS a fun arcade baseball game, flaws and all.

  As good as baseball games have gotten, many people feel that they're too complex and yearn for 
 the old days where you could play an entire game in 15 minutes but didn't have to have a college 
 degree to figure out the controls. If you like fast-paced, over-the-top baseball, The BIGS should 
 be right up your alley. However, the motion-sensing controls aren't always ideal and the lack of 
 online play and home run pinball make the Wii version, while still good, inferior to the PlayStation 
 3 and Xbox 360 versions.  

  The BIGS has a lot in common with Midway's Slugfest series; the games move along at a brisk pace 
 and there are plenty of gargantuan home runs, as well as some absolutely filthy pitches. To throw 
 a pitch, you hold the Wii Remote vertically and simply press the A, B, or A and B buttons together, 
 make a pitching motion (twisting it left or right if it's a breaking ball) and holding the buttons 
 until you've gone past the mark on the meter. If you wait too long or release too early, your location 
 will be off and you'll tip your pitch to the batter. Once in a while, the game fails to recognize 
 that you're holding down a button, and it feels as if you're emulating a 3-year-old child throwing 
 a ball rather than a Major League pitcher, but the pitching mechanic is functional. Each pitch 
 is rated according to the pitcher's ability to throw it. This ability decreases as the game goes 
 on, but the change can be accelerated by giving up hits. The harder the pitch is hit, the less 
 effective it will be, and eventually, you'll lose the ability to throw the pitch completely. This 
 isn't a huge problem when playing a single game because you've got plenty of pitchers at your disposal, 
 but it's an issue in rookie challenge because a pitcher's stamina level carries over from game 
 to game.  

           Pitching might be more fun than hitting.      

  The turbo meter from the PS3 and 360 versions is nowhere to be found, but you still have a power-up 
 meter. On defense, this can be filled by striking out hitters, making great plays, and robbing 
 home runs. Once it's full, you can use it on either offense or defense for one at-bat. When it's 
 used on defense, your pitches are all powered up and nearly (but not quite) unhittable. You'll 
 also steal some of the points from the opposition's power-up meter depending on how many strikes 
 you throw. Even when you're tossing regular pitches, it's a blast because the pitches are so darn 
 nasty.  

  Hitting is even easier than pitching. You flick the remote forward for a contact swing and push 
 the A button and flick the remote for a power swing. If you really want to get into things, you 
 can hold the remote as you would a bat, but you'll have to hold the Nunchuk up while you swing 
 and then move them both down in front of you so you can run the bases. This isn't really ideal. 
 You don't have to worry about lining up cursors or using the analog stick to try to match the pitch 
 location -- it's all about timing. The analog stick can be used to aim your shot, but there's no 
 reason to be intimidated -- it's easy to do and not all that necessary. You can increase your power-up 
 meter fairly quickly by getting base hits, walking, or getting beaned. Activating your big hit 
 power-up will guarantee a home run, provided you make contact. But this isn't just any old home 
 run, it's a titanic blast that will spark as it hits the fair pole or explode when it hits the 
 scoreboard. It would have been nice to have a bit more variety with regards to where the ball goes 
 when it's hit because it seems to go to the same few spots over and over again. It also would have 
 been nice to not get home runs taken away by the CPU several times in a game, but for the most 
 part, hitting is a lot of fun.  

           Even Chris Berman would get tired of saying 'Back, back, back' when calling some of these 
 blasts.      

  Where The BIGS stumbles is in its fielding and base running. Once you've practiced (and when it 
 works) moving the remote up and down to run faster and using buttons to select the runner, moving 
 the analog stick to direct them works OK, but too often the runners don't make the turn when you 
 want them to or they stop in their tracks just shy of the base. The ability to run full-speed into 
 the catcher like a freight train is totally awesome the first time you see it and makes up for 
 some of the base running woes, but not all of them. The rest of the game is so simple you wonder 
 why base running is so complicated. The controls are also complicated and unresponsive when you're 
 in the field. Once the ball is hit, you're given control over the player in the best position to 
 make a play, but the ball is hit so hard that it's often already passed you by the time you figure 
 out who you're controlling. This issue is exacerbated by a fielder's inability to change direction 
 quickly; if you take one step in the wrong direction, you can forget about getting to the ball 
 in time. You can dive for the ball, but you've got to figure out who you're controlling, get him 
 in position, hold a button, and then flick the controller in the direction you want to dive. Considering 
 that you're probably diving for a ball because it was hit hard, you don't have much time to get 
 all these things done.  

  Once you manage to grab the ball, you must flick the remote in the direction of the base you want 
 to throw to. This is doesn't always work, and even when it does, it's so slow to respond that double 
 plays are a rarity. You can rob home runs, but unless you're playing another person, these opportunities 
 are few and far between. Finally, the plays where the ball hits a fielder, knocking him down as 
 it ricochets away are far too common and are all the more frustrating thanks to the lousy fielding 
 controls. But even these issues don't prevent the game from being a ton of fun to play.     
 

  There's no traditional season mode in The BIGS. Instead there's the rookie challenge, where you 
 create a player then try to lead him and his team to the World Series. There aren't a whole lot 
 of customization options with which to create a player, though additional items unlocked throughout 
 the mode let you add a little flair. Once you've picked your player's position and distributed 
 some attributes, it's off to spring training. Here, you'll play a couple of games; based on your 
 performance, you'll earn points that can be used to improve your players' running, hitting, and 
 fielding abilities. You'll also participate in some fun minigames, such as batting practice and 
 running an obstacle course. You earn big points for successfully completing these drills, which 
 is good because the points you get from playing actual games don't amount to much.  

  After you've finished spring training, you must barnstorm your way around the league, taking on 
 whatever games appear on the map. Sometimes you'll have to play a full (five inning) game, while 
 other times, you are placed in a situation where the game has already started and you must perform 
 a task with your created player, such as steal a base, drive in a run, or get a base hit. After 
 you've beaten the first few challenges against a team, you'll get the opportunity to steal one 
 of its players if you beat that team in yet another a full game. You can only steal 10 players, 
 so you might want to hold off on snagging someone from the Devil Rays or you might not have room 
 for someone on the really good teams that you'll encounter later in the rookie challenge. As you 
 finish the available games and scenarios, new ones will open up. Then eventually, you'll take part 
 in the All-Star game, and if you're good enough, the playoffs and World Series.  

           Fielding is one area where the game stumbles.      

  The rookie challenge is quite 
 a bit of fun for a while, but you'll find that you've seen most everything it has to offer in just 
 a few hours. Because this is an arcade-style game, it would be unreasonable to expect a whole host 
 of general manager options and full stat tracking, but it wouldn't be unreasonable to expect at 
 least some customization options or some basic statistics. Alas, there are none. As a result, you 
 might find yourself rushing through games or even getting yourself out on purpose because there 
 aren't any rewards (other than minimal points for your created player) for playing well and crushing 
 the competition.  

  The BIGS is light on additional play modes on the Xbox 360 and PS3, but there's even less here 
 on the Wii. You can take on another player in a split-screen home run derby where the objective 
 is to be the first to hit 10 taters, but home run pinball is nowhere to be found, and like all 
 other Wii games, there's no online play.  

  Most likely, the first thing you'll notice upon starting a game is that the players are quite large, 
 though not as big as they are on the 360 and PS3. Their faces are detailed and in most cases look 
 like their real-life counterparts. But their bodies are larger than life, and their muscles are 
 ripped. Even normally scrawny players like Ichiro look like superheroes, though there is still 
 a little difference between him and someone like Albert Pujols. There's not such a dramatic difference 
 between the stadiums in the game and real stadiums, but some artistic license has been taken with 
 the proximity of local landmarks to the field, as well as the size of notable features inside the 
 stadium. A few issues prevent the game from looking as good as it probably could have looked. There 
 are some flickering, noticeable seams between textures, and the game could really use some antialiasing. 
 Some of the animations, such as when a player spins around after missing a pitch or how a second 
 baseman floats in midair in slow motion as he turns two, look great, but there isn't enough variety. 
 The transition from one animation to the next is also often awkward or nonexistent, particularly 
 when fielding. The huge home runs look fantastic, and it's awesome to watch the scoreboard explode, 
 but you'll probably find yourself wishing for more variety rather than player celebrations, or 
 at the very least, more destruction from your homers.  

           Players are so buff, they'll be testifying about steroids in front of Congress in no time. 

  Given the over-the-top nature of the game, it's probably a good idea that the outstanding but somewhat 
 mild-mannered duo from MLB 2K7 Jon Miller and Joe Morgan aren't calling the action. Instead it's 
 Damon Bruce, a radio host for KNBR out of San Francisco who calls the action. Outside of a few 
 instances where he blurts out the wrong player's name, his basic play-by-play is on point and his 
 energy level is high, though not to the point of being annoying. The crowd and the sound effects 
 are also typical for a baseball game. The exceptions to this are the nicely fitting, almost cartoonlike 
 sounds of the bat crushing the ball and the sound of a pitch whooshing past a hitter. Fans of grunge-era 
 rock will enjoy the soundtrack, which features artists like Stone Temple Pilots and Screaming Trees. 

  With its simple, yet exciting gameplay, The BIGS has gotten off to a good start. It's a bit shallow, 
 with some room for improvement in regards to how it plays in the field and on the base paths, but 
 if the PS3 and Xbox 360 versions aren't an option, anyone looking for a fun, arcade-style baseball 
 game would do well to give The BIGS a shot on the Wii.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (58 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: turtlenab45
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 23, 2009 1:22 pm PT
Review:  I am a big sports fan and I really think that they are awsome. This game just ruins the sports 
 fan game is a total outrage for 2k sports. I think that the graphics would be equal to playing 
 a crappy online game on miniclip. com. When I play 2k baseball games, I feel like I'm in the moment, 
 but the season is totally unrealistic and is torture to play. When you hit a homerun fire comes 
 out of the ball and what the hell is that all about!? When the outfielder catches the ball and 
 he throws it to the base, it automaticly goes to where you were hoping it to go. I f you played 
 a REAL sports game, you would understand that it takes time to throw the ball and humans aren't 
 bionic (its just a game though.) Yes this gives you a huge advantage in the game, but a real sports 
 game that crafted the game perfectly would understand that players like to be in the moment and 
 want to have life like player options and THE BIGS missed the train on that one! The season options 
 are O. K. ,but are far from the word "good." I think that 2k has made a major disapointment sports 
 wise and it is unfair for big sports fans to play such a terrible game. Long story short, 2k sports 
 really screwed up this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 3:01 pm PT
Review:  If you like baseball and you aren't looking for a deep game experience, The Bigs on the Wii delivers. 
 The Wii controls save the game; it's a fairly shallow experience on the other systems. This is 
 a great game to throw in to pass a weekend afternoon and get a decent workout in the process.
 
  
  The controls make the game. The action of swinging the bat is exactly like it would be in real 
 life. The pitching truly feels like you are throwing a ball and the different pitch types are executed 
 perfectly. Throwing to the bases takes some getting used too, but after a few games becomes just 
 as natural as the rest of the motions, although I still throw to the wrong base on occasion. This 
 is a game you definitely have to stand up to play, which engrosses you in the experience further. 
 It is so much more satisfying to rope one out of the park with a full baseball style swing than 
 with a well timed button press. Throwing the perfect 101 mph fastball that paints the corner to 
 end the game is much more rewarding when you really feel like you threw the ball. I actually was 
 physically unable to play the game for a few days because I played for 8 hours straight and my 
 arm hurt too much to play anymore. It says something for the game when the same muscles are sore 
 the next day after playing as they would be after playing a real game of baseball.
  
  The game is a little weak on game play options. There is the standard exhibition, home run derby 
 and rookie challenge. The lack of an actual season mode if rather disappointing. The rookie challenge 
 is an interesting take on the game of baseball. You pick your team and create your rookie. There 
 aren't many face options but there are quite a few different options for the uniform. Everything 
 from batting gloves to batting stance to what kind of bat your rookie uses. Once the challenge 
 is started, several teams open up to play against. Each team has a normal game (though usually 
 only 3 to 5 innings) , a stat challenge (you must complete requirement like 5 RBI's, hit a home 
 run with your rookie, or come back from a 3 point deficit in the 9th) , and steal a player (you 
 play a game and if you win, you select a player to steal) . After you complete these scenarios for 
 a team, other teams are unlocked to play until you have unlocked every team. Performing well in 
 a game earns your rookie points to spend on his stats. The later stat challenges are a little unbalanced. 
 On the medium difficulty, I was beating teams by 30 runs but I wasn't playing good enough to complete 
 some of the challenges. The MLB roster also isn't complete. It is strange in a game where every 
 player looks like they are juiced up on steroids (even the pitchers) that Barry Bonds in nowhere 
 to be found.
  
  Co-op has never really been approached as an option before in a baseball game (that I can recall) 
 but The Bigs nails it perfectly. It is an absolute blast to play through the rookie challenge with 
 a friend. In the first inning, one player pitches and the other fields. In the next inning, players 
 switch tasks. During batting, players alternate batters. While one player is batting, the other 
 player controls the lead runner if anyone is on base. Since there is an odd number of batters on 
 a team, each person gets to bat as every player during the course of the game.
  
  I missed the option to play a whole season with my team, but the rookie challenge was a fun diversion. 
 The co-op options make it a perfect game to play with a friend. The Bigs is a great game definitely 
 worth owning if you have any interest in baseball or need a game that gets you off the couch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandman004
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 10, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  The Bigs (for Wii) is a revolutionary game that seems to put you in the middle of the action. All 
 of the Wii remote actions are a factor that puts you in the shoes of the player such as the running, 
 pitching, fielding, and the batting. While it is fairly easy to hit a home run the feature of climbing 
 the wall to rob the home run levels the playing field a bit more. The single player was a huge 
 success in my opinion with the ability to create your own rookie and join your favorite baseball 
 team. The play now feature is pretty much the same as in the other games except for the Wii's control 
 scheme. The home run derby is a lot more fun when you're playing with friend because the computer 
 is fairly easy to beat. The two player play now is also great because you can fool your friends 
 with a knuckle ball, slam a homer over tho wall, or rob the m of a couple runs in the field or 
 outfield. The Bigs is an awesome improvement to the other 2k baseball games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burch0079
Rating: 5
Date: May 31, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  The first time i played this game, i thought, this was pretty bad. The Bigs has no online play, 
 no homerun pinball (which was a good addtion to game modes on the other consoles) . The base running 
 controls are terrible, same with the batting. The swinging "lag" is dramatic. You have to train 
 yourself to swing before you would normally want to just to hit. Pitching is awful, there is a 
 lag here too which means a meatball is on its way to the plate. There is no wind up, you just hold 
 the remote over your head and drop down. When a POWER SWING is activated by your opponent and you 
 don't have a full meter for a "POWER PITCH" its a home run, no matter what. That's not real baseball 
 in any way!! Fielding has you flicking your wrist to throw to the appropriate base, regardless 
 of the players speed they are usually safe anyway. I could go on but I want to forget about this 
 game as soon as posssible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_rock_74
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 10, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  When you first start to play it to do the pitching is a little hard that is why the rating a gave 
 it whent down. Also it is kewl when you get 10,000 score points you can hit a home run if you hit 
 the ball. If you are pitching and you activate it it will do pitchs like there are 2 balls the ball 
 frezes in mid air they are the main ones. But you sport loves will like this game. The funest mode 
 is if you make your own chartor if you do make him a 1st base man. So then we needs to have a good 
 glove. When you play a team 2 times in there challenges you can beat them a 3rd time or it is the 
 second time you can take one of the other teams players. That is unrealistice. It brung the score 
 down i gave it by 1.0 because when you pick the players all the good ones play the same pistions 
 so that was kinda bad. But if you dont like sports still try it it is a lot of fun. I would rent 
 it first because it is hard to get started so i hope you love it and if you do tell all of your 
 friends about the game they will love it to trust me thanx andbye! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8trux
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  The BIGS at first glance looks like a really good baseball game for your wii but when you pop it 
 in, you will tear your hair out. My main problem with this game is that it the controls are way 
 to sensitive for the wii. You have to do it perfectly right and at the right time or your pitches 
 won't work or you'll do the wrong pitch. The controls just demand the player to do the pitches 
 right or you won't do the pitch. This is where i tore my freakin' hair out of my scalpe! Plus the 
 AI is pretty hard but there is nothing wrong with that if you want a challenge. PLUS, THERES NO 
 ONLINE MULTIPLAYER, which kind of downs the experence of the game. The controls enough will make 
 you want to put the wii remote and nunchuck around your neck and choke yourself (WARNING: DO NOT 
 PUT THE WII REMOTE AND NUNCHUCK AROUND YOUR NECK AND CHOKE YOURSELF! YOU COULD HURT YOURSELF!) . 
 I say stay away from this game but if you want to buy it or rent it, buy or rent at your own risk. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ccooldudecool
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 28, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  The BIGS is a "arcade game" and it shure seems a lot more then that.
  
  Graphics: Cool yeah very sweet, when you hit the ball and look at the pitcher there's a few pixels 
 off but still very nice. 
  
  Music: Nice variety of different music, when your in different modes you sometimes have the choice 
 too change the music. 
  
  Sound: Just a little above average.... but won't truly dissapoint.
  
  
  Gameplay:
  Okay 
 so you either play a pick-up game where you pick two teams and duel it out. The controlls can be 
 hard for kids too pick up with the pitching, due too that you have too press on like, A+B Twist 
 right, B Throw, A Curve. Just examples. For older people it's easier or ...... IF you read the 
 ancient ways of the past! The instructions!!!! Then kids can learn it easier too. When they hit 
 it too the outfield it's not too easy to catch with the Wiimote. Batting isn't half bad with the 
 Wiimote it's a fun real way too bat! Not too mention you can exicute a super hit which is x2 as 
 powerfull but is harder too hit the pitch. You can then either make your own character for the 
 "season" 
  In the main season mode you get too go from state too state. For example if your the Dodgers you 
 start spring training in Florida and play teams there, and then you go into the main season where 
 you sometimes train batting, running, ect for your rookie character that you made. Unlike other games 
 where you just play the season a game by game this one each area has a few special events! 
  
  Multiplayer: Well there's no Wi-Fi on this game but is that good or bad idk. But you can play 
 both other game modes with multi. 
  
  
  Strategy: Interesting such as doing pitching rotations, batting order, putting points too your 
 rookie, And such stuff. Nothing difficult about it really but it's fun too make the rookie and 
 customize the music when he comes up too bat ( From the song list music, when you go up too bat 
 fav music. ) 
  
  
  Overall Difficulty: Med
  Strategy: Easy
  Gameplay: Med
  
  Overall Thoughts: It's a very fun not too challenging game that's worth it's time. Easy mode is 
 easy and so is so. It's a very good baseball arcade game.
  
  Worth how much?: Probably $40 max. Very good game i suggest this too baseball fans or just for 
 a Wii baseball game. 
  Lenght: Really never ending due too the fact that it's a baseball game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nunyerbiz
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Figuring that all a developer would have to do is expand on the framework laid out by Wii Sports, 
 baseball on the Wii should be a no-brainer. Too bad it's apparently not that easy. The BIGS isn't 
 a terrible first step, but it's just not polished enough to recommend. 
  
  The controls are awkward from top to bottom. While pitching and hitting aren't totally off the 
 mark when compared to the simple functionality of Wii Sports, they are a downgrade. There is a 
 horrible lag between flicking the remote and getting your batter to swing, so getting the timing 
 down to where you aren't constantly swinging at horrible pitches is a lot harder than it should 
 be. The ptiching is implemented better, but again the controls just aren't sensitive enough to 
 make things intuitive. It felt like my wrist was going to snap off as I tried continually more 
 extreme clockwise / counterclockwise rotations and button release timings to try and get consistent 
 pitch results.
  
  While you can get accustomed to the mushy controls for the batting/pitching interface fairly quickly... 
 fielding and baserunning are a whole different ball game (sorry for the pun) . Simply put, both 
 baserunning and fielding are awful. They don't ruin the game, but I couldn't help but feeling that 
 The BIGS would have been better served using the CPU controlled fielders and ghostrunners from 
 Wii Sports. Play this game for two hours, then fire up Wii Sports Baseball. I can promise you won't 
 miss the fielding/baserunning implementation from The BIGS.
  
  The single most important aspect of any Wii title is getting things "right" with the controller. 
 The BIGS just doesn't deliver in this regard. Sure, it's not a terrible game once you fight with 
 controls and get comfortable enough to make it playable... but a simple arcade baseball game shouldn't 
 require such an investment. Anybody should be able to pick up The BIGS and be enjoying a simple 
 over-the-top game of baseball in a few minutes... not a few hours. The Wii version had to have 
 been an afterthought from 2K Games... as they clearly didn't spend much time tweaking things.
 
  
  It's not all bad news, I had three buddies over the other night... and we all had a good enough 
 time playing a few games, so I think it's value as a "party" game does help a little. I've probably 
 spent a total of six or seven hours playing over the last four days... I really thought I would 
 eventually come around and like this game... but this wound up as barely a worthy rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rabbids_Rule
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  -A good game for baseball fans
  -Pitching and batting is just so much fun
  -Rookie Challenge mode is really fun
  -Upgrading your rookie and making him a star is fun
  
 -Stealing players is fun
  -Game scenarios and stat challenges are usually more fun than just playing a normal game
  -Some 
 games are short (3 or 5 innings)
  -Great multiplayer
  -Getting Big Heat is fun
  -Railroading the catchers is ALOT of un
  -This game takes good advantage of the Wii controls
 
  -4 different difficulty settings
  
  The Bad:
  -Fielding is very frustrating and takes ALOT of getting used to
  -No season mode
  -No online 
 play
  -At some points graphics are ugly
  
  
  If you are huge baseball fan, than this is the game for you. With the Wii controls , batting and 
 pitching is just absolutly amazing. The one bad part of this game is the fielding. It is nnot the 
 running around and catching part , (that part is just fine) it is throwing to bases. You can throw 
 to 1st about 80 percent of the time, you can throw to second 80 percent of the time, you can throw 
 to third 40 percent of the time, and you can throw to home 70 percent of the time.
  
  If you are patient, love baseball, and love the Wii controls, then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djdevon101
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 23, 2007 11:28 pm PT
Review:  the games graphics arent bad but there are alot of controls and they arent the best but once you 
 get used to it they arent so bad, first off the feilding is really hard and takes a while to get 
 used to , pitching isn't that hard, and batting is right in the middle, this game has a point scheme 
 which allows you to have pwerups after a certain amount. The game doesn't have many modes. It has 
 play now hoe run derby and rookie challenge. Rookie challenge is where you cretae a player and 
 try to be a superstar, it pretty fun but can be difficult, overall this game isn't bad and if your 
 willing to take some time with it i would recommend it, but you cant say this would be a masterpeice 
 because t is the first baseball game besides the wii sports baseball weeble wobble game and the 
 japanese baseball game, mlb power pros 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AceInTheHole24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  All right, first of all let me say that I'm not a baseball expert by any means. I've only just 
 caught the fever for the game in the last two seasons, but I like to think I'm learning fast. That 
 being said, I think The Bigs is a great game for someone in my position. Someone with a healthy 
 respect for the game with room left to learn and experience new things will love this video game.
 
  
  The arcade style gameplay might seem too loose for some but is great for anyone with a life outside 
 of video games. You can pick up the controls and play a game in fifteen minutes (less if you're 
 playing against the Devil Rays) . If you have more time, you can play the Rookie Challenge. I did 
 just to see what happened and it took me the better part of a month and a half to make it to the 
 World Series.
  
  The Wii controls take some time to get used to as they do in any game, but after the adjustment 
 period is over, they are very responsive and seem to do a good job emulating the timing that is 
 necessary in nearly all aspects of baseball. I did the swing motion with the Wii-mote one-handed 
 the whole time. Although this might look silly, it really made it easier to get a feel for the 
 required motion and soon I was hitting perfect balls every other swing. The pitching takes more 
 getting used to and I didn't get the feel for throwing a fastball until I was in the playoffs, 
 but the twisting motion for breaking balls was easy to pick up and I was throwing perfect curveballs 
 and sliders nearly every time.
  
  The only gripe I can find for the game is that is does become repetitive over time. Maybe this 
 is just because I played the whole time on the easy setting, but when I tried to move up to medium 
 I started getting my butt handed to me. Which could lead to another gripe about imbalance between 
 difficulty settings. I can't imagine what Ultra-hard would be like and I'm afraid to find out.
 
  
  All in all, The Bigs is an entertaining baseball game that hearkens back to the simple gameplay 
 days of NES and Atari baseball. If you're a fantasy baseball fanatic who just has to pore over 
 player statistics every minute of play, then this game isn't for you. If you're a new fan to the 
 game of baseball or are a veteran fan who loves it for it's simplicity, you'll find something to 
 like in The Bigs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tesoro3
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 6, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  It seems fun at first but only gets worse. I highly dislike it. Its a game where you hit it and 
 you wait to see if the outfielder who jumps up it going to rob you of a home run or hit off his 
 golve and go over the fence. It has a rookie challenge mode but seems as if to easy and not worth 
 the time to see if your guy homers or not. For me it was a letdown and wasnt what i was looking 
 for in a game. Seemed kind of like slugfest but just didnt compare. If i had to say one thing its 
 gets to predictable and boring after a short amount of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverick_41
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  Well I think that you should get this game if you actually want a baseball game on the Wii, if 
 not, the don't even think about it. This game is particularly hard and the controls are quite cluncky. 
 Now onto the multiplayer mode. Everytime a friend comes over, be ready to sit though about half 
 and hour of the tutorials. Then if you have played this game for a while, be ready for no competition. 
 This game is very hard to pick up for anyone
  
  It took me about 2-3 hours to get over the learning curve. All in all, this game is fair. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiidog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very fun game. It's arcade style and interactive gameplay is very appealing. The 
 Bigs is hard for the first time you play but after a few days you will be a pro. The game has different 
 difficulty levels so when you do get good you can change the difficulty so you won't win everytime 
 you play. The controls are pretty straight forward. You flick the Wii remote in the direction of 
 the base you want and swing the controller to hit the ball. The game is never boring and always 
 poses a challenge for any gamer. It also supports 4 players at a time (which most baseball games 
 don't) . This game is fun, interactive, challenging, exciting and just plain fun. It's worth every 
 penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kwalthers
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 13, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Since I bought the Wii I've been looking forward to a solid baseball game. While the Bigs doesn't 
 have any franchise modes or trading or any other sort of cool management **** it does have excellent 
 pitching and batting controls.
  It took me a while to master the curveballs, splitters etc... but now that I have I'm diggin' it. 
 The batting is also great but only if you disconnect the nunchuck. I can't see how you could possibly 
 take a proper swing with that crazy wire boppin all over the joint. This one time, I took a huge 
 swing with the nunchuck attached and the wire looped around my neck causing me to fall over the 
 coffee table and kick the TV which fell on the end table breaking it and the TV. Of course the 
 wire tightened around my throat and I passed out but when my wife revived me, I was ready to have 
 another go. I simply decided to remove the nunchuck and the swinging became fun until I went around 
 too far, tripped over the nunchuck I had left on the floor and went head first through the aquarium. 
 The nunchuck was simply a bad idea for this game all together.
  Other than that, it's tons of fun man. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kommando13
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 11, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Alright, The BIGS is a baseball game for the Wii, as a matter of fact the first full baseball game 
 for the Wii. It is kindof a mixup depending on what you like in a sports game. Personally I think 
 that The BIGS is a great game, however I would understand how some fans would not feel the same 
 way about it. It is a solid arcade style baseball game, I really like this game because it is simple, 
 fun and exiting. The biggest thing this game has is how truely easy it is to just pickup a Wiimote 
 and play. If you just have a friend over who dosent even have a Wii, there will be no issue playing 
 a quick 9 innings of The BIGS, they will pick it up in no time. The Career mode is also fun and 
 satisfying, where you follow a rookie in his career. For cons, this game, like many others on the 
 Wii is rather weak graphically, the realism can be bad and it can also be frusterating to some 
 during the later stages of career. Overall I would reccomend this game to all that love baseball, 
 no matter what kind of gamer they are.
  
  PROS:
  -Simple
  -Fun
  -Exiting
  -Reliable
  -Easy to Pick Up
  
  Cons:
  -Graphics
  -Very Hard in the later stages of Career 
 Mode
  -Realism 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WitIsWisdom
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Out of all the games I currently own for the Wii (16) I find myself playing this one more than 
 any of the others. I'm not usually a big fan of unrealistic sports games, but The Bigs steps up 
 in all the right places. Single player and multi player are both very fun! With the huge 100,000 
 point power swings you can turn the tables on any seemingly one sided game, and turn the them in 
 your favor almost instantly. I think there is actually a lot more thought and time put into this 
 game than a lot of people give credit for! Simply hold up on the joystick and aim in the direction 
 you want to hit the ball, then hold A down for a little more power. be careful which fielder you 
 want to burn because each player has up to 5 stars for their fielding prowess, and wall jump robberies 
 happen quite frequently! Just don't try to burn a player like Jim Edmonds or 19/20 times you will 
 be sorry! This is a game that I would say to just go ahead and buy, no need to rent it first. The 
 controls really take some time getting used to, but with the help of a single player mode that 
 allows you to practice you will get them down eventually. I think the home run derby is a bit of 
 a letdown, but hey, I bought the game to play baseball not a home run derby! If you are looking 
 for a sports game where you and up to three friends can play together and everybody truly feels 
 involved, this is the one to get! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErikWaters
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  There is no arguing that Wii Sports is a great game. Packaged with the Nintendo Wii console on 
 release day, Wii Sports became the perfect blend of fun and tutorial with its five simple sports 
 games on one disc. While most of the sports games played incredibly close to their real life counterpart, 
 one game didn't feel quite right with its summarized gameplay: baseball.
  
  While hitting and pitching controlled well with the new Wii controls, other important baseball 
 aspects, such as base running and fielding, were oddly left to the computer AI to control. Hits 
 were calculated on where the ball landed in the park and base running felt similar to old-school 
 sandlot ghost man rules. In other words, Wii Sports' baseball feels nothing like America's favorite 
 pastime.
  
  Enter the new baseball game simulation The BIGS. Taking the same motion sensing controls of Wii 
 Sports' baseball, The BIGS manages to add the complete experience of controlling and playing in 
 a baseball game. Whether it makes this feat accessible and fun for all players is about to be discussed.
 
  
  One of the first things that players will notice when starting a quick game of The BIGS is how 
 this isn't exactly an accurate portrayal of real baseball. Sure, some of today's hometown heroes 
 are exponentially expanding in size by the season, but in The BIGS, everyone but the batboys look 
 like they are possible gym buddies with Jose Conseco.
  
  On top of the beefed up players with their edgy appearances and attitudes, the game itself is an 
 over-dramatized spectacle of impossible catches, smash hits, and extremely aggressive base running. 
 With an all-around caricaturized presentation of baseball, The BIGS is best described as a resurrection 
 of aggressive sports games like the glory days of NFL Blitz.
  
  Gameplay wise, The BIGS is rather, excuse the pun, hit or miss. Batting is the biggest thing that 
 takes awhile to get used to. Swinging doesn't feel quite as natural as Wii Sports due to a nasty 
 delay when swinging the physical Wii-mote and the on-screen player swinging, but it does become 
 easier with practice and timing. Delayed swing aside, the options at bat feel a lot more in depth 
 here as ball placement and coinciding base runners help increase strategic plays.
  
  Pitching on the other hand feels much tighter and expansive in The BIGS as opposed to Wii Sports' 
 two button pitch availability. Players are given four or five solid pitches that, when thrown right, 
 can be downright nasty for batters. Even little things like twisting of the wrist and flick speed 
 is registered on the Wii-mote to make every pitch different than the last. It's just a shame that 
 the rest of the game isn't as fun as pitching and hitting.
  
  Despite the irony that Wii Sports baseball doesn't even allow players to field the ball and round 
 the bases, the biggest downfall of The BIGS by far is the lackluster fielding and base running 
 controls. Fielding is an absolute pain, mainly because the overpowered hitters will smoke it out 
 of the infield before players even have a chance to lay out for the ball. Even when the ball is 
 hit mid-field where a player should easily make the play, the game has a tough time choosing who 
 is closest to the ball which oftentimes turns into an unnecessary hit.
  
  In the rare occurrence that a player stops the ball with the seemingly useless piece of leather 
 situated on their hand, the game goes through another complete relapse with throwing to bases. 
 Some developer somewhere decided that it would be a neat idea to have people flick their wrists 
 in one of the four directions to throw to a bag, but the game has real trouble deciding what direction 
 a Wii-mote has been flicked in. The bottom-line is expect a ton of unearned runs to flood in with 
 this sloppy mechanic. Thankfully, and mercifully, the developers have also assigned bases to the 
 Wii-mote's D-pad for easy throwing.
  
  The BIGS really has some game-hindering flaws that keep this arcade baseball game from becoming 
 the next great sports game. When it works, it really works, but those moments are too few and far 
 between and will possibly end up frustrating gamers. With really only three differing modes to 
 play, including a slightly barebones Create-a-Rookie mode, this game is a disappointment for sports 
 and Nintendo Wii enthusiasts looking for that complete baseball experience. Just don't forget to 
 dust off that copy of Wii Sports every so often. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmann1994
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  This is the first REAL baseball game for the Wii, and I just had to have when I heard about. Dissapointingly, 
 I am not so impressed. The game has pretty good graphics, but the big flaw here, is the animations, 
 paticulary in slow motion. You might see a players leg jerking around in mid air when throwing 
 a pitch. But other than that, it is pretty solid graphics. Then we have gameplay. The gameplay 
 overall is fun, with slow-motion here in there for big plays. The biggest flaw in gameplay is the 
 CPU vs. Player balancing. The CPU ALWAYS gets big plays and the cool slow motion, and the player 
 never does. That really annoyed me when playing. Also the controls are extremely complicated. Most 
 actions invlove a combination of buttons, and then a Wii Remote swing, this is very frustraiting. 
 The sound design is good, with some repedited FX here and there, and the commentary gets repetitve. 
 Overall, The BIGS is a pretty solid game, and is worth a check out, but the lasting appeal will 
 have you wondering if you got what you paid for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warstomp
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  It really shows hope for the future of the WII in sports. The good:
  The controls are alright
  The graphics are alright
  The game play is fun
  It really shows 
 promise for the future of WII baseball
  One of the only well done WII games.
  It plays fast fluid and fun which makes it really enjoyable.
  
  The bad:
  It kind of messes 
 up with swings and theres not a 1:1 movement so it takes time to get used to the controls.
  The graphics could of been better.
  Takes time to get used to which will drive some away.
  
 Some things could of been done better game play wise like the running system. It doe sent work 
 the greatest
  
  Even though it has some problems it is really enjoyable and fun. Great to play with friends you 
 will have a blast. It really makes playing sport games more fun when your sort of performing the 
 moves. All in all pick it up if you enjoy real life baseball or baseball games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tsuyo_Puyo
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  The Bigs is a great arcade style baseball simulator. Swinging the bat with the wii-stick and doing 
 a throwing motion with the wii-stick also caught my attention as I first played it. Though it does 
 take awhile to get use to, once you get use to the feel and control of the game it is the most 
 exciting thing you can play. The single error in the game though is the way you throw to the basemens. 
 You have to swing the wii-stick left right up or down to get it to the basemens and it really doesn't 
 respond well. If take 2 makes another Bigs they need to use the D-pad to throw to the basemens 
 because it is very crucial in a baseball game to throw it to who u want at that very moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Obiwan59595
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 26, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  The Bigs is an arcade style baseball game from the people that brought you MLB slug fest. It has 
 its super unreal gameplay and turns the series into a positive direction. The problem basically 
 is that the game doesn't function well on the Wii remote. This is evident in the fielding, I never 
 can a double play in this game. The baserunning could have been polished more and user friendly. 
 Where this game is worth at least a rental for baseball fans is its pitching and batting. The pitching 
 really kept me wanting to try and just strike people out with the nastiest curves and splitter 
 I've seen in a video game. The batting becomes a great challenge because of this. The best part 
 of this game is it's gameplay so the other parts suffer like graphics and content. Still all and 
 all this is a step in the right direction for baseball games on the Wii. Hopefully we can see a 
 slick control scheme from ESPN next year. Until then, The Bigs is a great pick up for sports fans 
 who want a break from madden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattlscc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  At first attempt it can be rather difficult to control because it does allow you to control so 
 many different things, but once you figure out what you are doing it is amazing. It is truly the 
 best baseball game I have every played besides the real deal. A must have for baseball fans! You 
 even have to remember to stop trying to control the ball once it has been hit so you can move your 
 fielders in the right direction. I love the game play and love playing against others. So far the 
 Rookie challenge is pretty fun as well. The home run derby leaves something to be desired, but 
 other than that I give it an A+! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adachaa
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  When you first go onto the menu you have play now, exhibition, rookie challenge, learn the bigs, 
 and options. One of the few problems I have with this game is it does not have a season mode. Rookie 
 challenge is the closest thing to a season and in the rookie challenge you make your own guy and 
 customize him to your liking. As you go through the season you will be able to bring up your guys 
 stars which are like attributes. There are stars in contact, power, speed, glove, and throwing 
 power. Pitching in the game is very fun and so is batting. Now lets get to the part which everybody 
 says is just awful fielding. Maybe it's just me but I really didn't find it that hard after about 
 a half an hour of playing. Now the two bad things once you have been playing for a while even on 
 the hardest difficulty it can still be to easy I pitched a no hitter a day or two ago but it has 
 very good multiplayer. My last gripe is I wanted online play but sadly it's not to be found hopefully 
 it will be there next year.
  
  Pros: Fun batting and pitching, rookie challenge is also fun, Good multiplayer, fielding is not 
 not nearly as hard as everyone says, addictive
  
  Cons: Can get a little easy, no season mode, no online play
  
  If your a baseball fan like 
 myself buy it if your not rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bragkiller
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 9:49 pm PT
Review:  the overall look and mechanics are smooth and simpal but when you get to actual fielding a base 
 ball you will either throw it to the wrong base or wont throw it at all. the pitching is way to 
 hard on the arm and you end up throwing the wrong pitch most of the time. the rookie game mode is 
 waaaaaaay to shallow. their are times when i dont even care about my rookie. also i know their 
 is an arcadic side to the game play but climbing a wall and jumping 20 feet to snag a home run 
 is way to high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrismarra1
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 20, 2007 6:54 pm PT
Review:  The Bigs is the first base sim for the wii, and its a decent head start. But the gameplay is to 
 cheesy for me, and i sometimes found myself bored out of my mind with it. the graphics are so so, 
 and player batting stances are not addressed enough, which makes the game less enjoyable. it was 
 also unrealistic because of the flames coming out of the ball when you hit a home run. on the other 
 hand, the game is still very entertaining, because some aspects of the game are challenging. Some 
 of those challenges are also glitches, which brings my rating down for The Bigs. if i were you 
 i would rent it first, and then buy it if i liked it. i think nintendo will fix the problems and 
 make it better next year, so if you thought the game was mediocre, then look out for the Bigs next 
 year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fizzlegloop
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 15, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  I hear that a lot of people do not like this game because of the control for the fielding and base 
 running. I rented the game and I have to admit i hated the controls when you have to throw to the 
 bases. I did not know how to throw to second base. Got me very frustrated. But however i did love 
 the game. Fielding is the only con about it in my mind. I do not like fielding one bit at all. 
 Pitching and batting are really fun to do though. Base running is also very fun. Not many game 
 modes though. I think that if they added more game modes and actually had more than 6 people on 
 a team then it would actually be a better game. I would say rent it first to see if you like it 
 because its very risky business when your buying sports games. Also i forgot to put this in before, 
 I think that the bigs when your base running or trying to catch a ball in the outfield when you 
 have to sprint (move your remote up and down really fast) i think that doing so breaks your remote. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aznx45
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 15, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  I just got the The Bigs for my Wii and I thought it was a really great game. I have played other 
 baseball games and this was my favorite. I really recommend playing this game. There are some bad 
 stuff about it though. There isn't much character animations and gameplay gets boring sometimes. 
 Your players never do things automaticlly. Which means you have to do everything manually. Catching 
 the ball and everything else is by yourself. I don't really have a problem with that. But if you 
 are going to get a newer game for your Wii or any system it should be The Bigs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shanerfin
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 9, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  The Bigs was just as the box said IMO, An american classic. This game was wonderful all around. 
 The fielding and pitching is fun but takes some getting used to, and the batting is the greatest. 
 Eventually in the game you will figure out the controls pretty quick. All my friends that came 
 and played said the batting seemed laggy but I could never notice it and neither did my cousins. 
 If you love baseball or are even a little interested in baseball I think this a great buy. I love 
 this game but can''t wait to see what other baseball titles come out in the coming years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wima5ter-134
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  When I got "The Bigs" I was like "awesome a baseball game on the Wii" and It was everything I thought 
 it was. The way you play is fun, swinging the Wiimote as a bat and pressing buttons for pitching, 
 It was all good fun. But for the pitches, they are very hard to get used to, and often when you 
 have a friend over, you end up owning them with unreal score (17-0, 54-2, 34-3, etc.) But once 
 you get the hang of it it really starts to become a fun game to play. On of parts where the game 
 stumbles is the fielding, you flick the Wiimote to the Left, Up, Right, and Down for throws to 
 Bases, but the sensitive Wiimote often has you throwing to third instead of first and home instead 
 of second. It is a flaw that is both little and big at the same time. What I don't like about this 
 game compared to the others versions (ps3, X360) is that they don't have the turbo mode in this 
 game. In turbo you can throw strong pitches or get strong swings at any time as long as you have 
 points in turbo, but in the Wii version you have to rely only on the big play points to get bigs 
 blasts and big heat. Another is the lack of online play, The Wii can play online, why not use it? 
 And lastly is the lack of Home Run Pinball. We've all seen it, Justin Morneau hitting pitches in 
 the middle of New Yorks Times Square, the Wii version doesn't have that, that was really a let 
 down, why give two versions a fun type of play but decide to leave it out on the Wii? The rookie 
 challenge is a fun addition to a baseball game, making your own player, putting him in the big 
 leagues, going through spring training, and going to the world series. It's a fun new addition 
 to this game and has some cool modes such as 9th inning comeback and stat challenge, which give 
 you objectives from striking out 7 to hitting 2 home runs to stealing a base with your player. 
 I myself would have enjoyed a full season mode with the active team but the rookie mode is still 
 fun. One of the things with the game is the music, like all sports games, they give you a selection 
 of about 10 songs that play repeatedly throughout the game, and, as you can guess, will start getting 
 redundant after a while, but it still comes with a great variety of songs that are great and you 
 could listen to them for a while. The Bigs is overall a fun game that should not be taken lightly, 
 if you are looking for a fun game on the Wii, or just a fun baseball game, this is the game for 
 you.
  actual score: 7.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicboom713
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 4, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  Considering the intuitive controls of the Nintendo Wii, it was only a matter of time until someone 
 besides Nintendo made a baseball game for the system. While 2Ks The Bigs may not be exactly what 
 hardcore baseball fans are looking for, as its focus is more on arcade gameplay, than fulfilling 
 the dreams of stat-hungry gamers, the end result is a fun one that is worth at least a rental.
 
  
  Upon playing The Bigs for the first time, youll notice that everything looks much bigger in scale. 
 The players and stadiums are huge and brightly colored, looking as if they take place in some kind 
 of dream where every player can be a superstar and every stadium can host a World Series. As a 
 matter of fact, in the world of The Bigs, even David Newhan, the Mets bench-warming utility man 
 can hit home runs. Gaining points for every hit, great catch, strikeout and everything else that 
 can contribute to you winning the game, The Bigs big play-meter fills up after every great play 
 and can eventually turn even the most lethargic big-league hitter or pitcher into a superstar, 
 if only for a short time. Knowing that, it doesnt take a genius to know that runs come quite easily 
 in the game and big plays are more frequent than a Jose Reyes stolen base.
  
  This type of action-first gameplay will distract those who are looking for a genuine MLB-experience, 
 but will capture the hearts of the casual fan and remind them of the same exciting and enthralling 
 experience they had playing games like NBA Street and Mutant League Football for the first time.
 
  
  As far the games control scheme however, while not being exactly perfect, they do get the job done 
 and even manage to reward those who master them. Unlike the Wii-Sports version of baseball, The 
 Bigs uses both the nunchuck and Wii-mote, offering a more complete and thorough gameplay experience. 
 Using the nunchuck to decide where your pitches will end up and where to place your swing and the 
 Wii-mote for the timing of your pitches, swings and the speed of your running, players who decide 
 to venture into the game will find the game quite a workout. Nevertheless, once mastered, the games 
 control is quite responsive, despite some hiccups when fielding and running the bases from time 
 to time.
  
  Adding to the games solid control is a bevy of gameplay modes, including a Rookie Challenge mode 
 that allows you to create a player and take him to the big leagues and an amazing soundtrack that 
 features Janes Addiction, Rollins Band, Motorhead and Stone Temple Pilots. However, despite the 
 games plentiful amount of gameplay modes and amazing soundtrack, the game still feels like its 
 lacking something.
  
  With Major League Baseball known for its plethora of player moves every season, a baseball game 
 today needs to be able to keep up and offer everything from a smart roster management system and 
 online updates to keep the game fresh and current. While its mediocre roster management system 
 may drive some players batty and force them to buy a new game next season, those who care less 
 about not being able to trade Scott Proctor for Wilson Betemit [the game doesnt allow trades of 
 pitchers for hitters or vice-versa] will still find the game a charming entry into a Wii lineup 
 starved for adequate sports titles.
  
  All flaws considered, The Bigs is an absolute blast to play and even better with friends. Hardcore 
 baseball fans may want to wait for something more realistic to hit the shelves, but casual fans 
 may just find a new staple in their Wii collection.
  
  
  -Patrick Hickey Jr. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilkevizy6th
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 2, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  The Bigs is a great starter baseball game. It is extremely fun to play. Get into hours of playing 
 with friends or by yourself. Bigs is a must have now game for any Wii owner or simply a lover of 
 baseball. The arcade style play adds lots of excitement and style to the game. Its almost like 
 the bigs except without the punching and crap. And it doesn't take that long to figure out. 30-60 
 minutes of playing and you'll be throwing perfect pitches in no time. The game is tremendously 
 fun once you fully understand the controls. Although the graphics aren't exactly the best baseball 
 graphics I've ever seen, they do perfectly just fine. It doesn't matter anyways because us Wii 
 owners didn't buy the Wii for the graphics in the first place, we bought for mere gameplay and 
 how much fun we would have. So If your looking around at all these reviews to see if the Bigs is 
 really worth buying, I say YES! YES! Buy The Bigs and you will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magicaldropking
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 31, 2007 12:41 am PT
Review:  Pitching is spot-on and batting is pretty good. Oh, if only baseball was JUST pitching and batting, 
 this would be the best baseball game I've ever played, and I've played my share.
  
  Oh, but fielding and baserunning...
  
  2K, you had a good thing going with those motion-sensitve 
 batting and pitching controls.. you just couldn't help yourself, could you?
  
  Motion-sensitive fielding controls are not only tacked-on, they are a MAJOR detraction. The fielders 
 don't quite seem to move the way you want them to, and you can just forget about trying to throw 
 to the correct base.... ever. Best bet is to have the bases loaded in the hopes of getting *someone* 
 out regadless of which base the wiimtoe THINKS you motioned to, or better yet, avoid fielding altogether 
 with those beautiful pitches.
  
  If we were at least given the OPTION to have more 'generic' fielding controls, a la, using the 
 d-pad, it would have gone a LONG way to making the game truly steller. Alas, lessons learned for 
 next year, I hope. Also conspicuously and disappointingly absent is the online mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdechert
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 23, 2007 6:13 am PT
Review:  I was both pleased and disappointed with this game. Pleased at the pitching and hitting, disappointed 
 at the fielding and running. Batting is the most fun and straightforward in its use of the motion 
 controls. Aim the swing and swing - how easy is that. Pitching is easy, too, once you get into 
 a rhythm, which is like real pitching - it's all about rhythm. Base running is less fun, as all 
 you do is control a little dot on an overhead picture of a baseball diamond. Even when I slide 
 into a base, I never get to see it unless I go back and replay it. Fielding, however, is the worse. 
 About half the time I throw to the wrong base. I'm flicking the remote like crazy to the right, 
 but it throws to third. Or the computer puts me in control of a guy far from where the ball is 
 and I have to cycle the Z button to get to the player nearest the ball.
  
  Also, the AI is decent, but in fielding its killer. How many great catches off of the wall can 
 one guy do in a game? I swear the computer steals 90% of my HRs by jumping 20 feet off the wall 
 to catch it. Wow - pretty amazing when I still can't execute an off the wall catch with my players 
 because the controls are so effed up.
  
  Fun concept, the Rookie builder mode is fun, and I like the overall style of the game. Just fix 
 the running and especially the fielding and this would be a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miles13
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 22, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  First impression of the game: Fun, easy to catch on, good use of the Wii controllers. Not great, 
 but good graphics with a arcade like touch make this game seem more of an arcade game than a simulation. 
 The game is very fun for multi player game play. The best features are the Home Run Derby, and 
 Rookie modes. Also the mini games inside of the Rookie mode are entertaining. Even though this 
 game is very good, it does need some improvements. One thing that could be improved would be the 
 soundtrack. As with all sports games, well any game, the soundtrack gets pretty repetitive. The 
 game could also use some extra game modes, such as a full season. The closest thing to a full season 
 is the Rookie mode, where you play as a rookie baseball player and work your way up to the Bigs 
 , improving your stats and team along the way. Overall this is one of the better baseball games 
 I have played for any system, with a few additions this game could be a top Wii game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobrax80
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 21, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  If you want a much more full baseball experience than Wii sports offered, than this is for you. 
 This is a great baseball game and is much more complex than Wii sports in terms of controls and 
 such. That being said it also lacks the tight batting controls that it had. For example, when you 
 swing the Wii-mote there is a delay with the swing on screen, eventually you will learn to time 
 it that way but it should not be this way if you are trying to properly mimic a batting experience. 
 The pitching is well done with tons of different pitches and movements but it also sometimes does 
 not register some of the pitches properly at times. The big thing that sets this game from other 
 baseball games is the power hits and basically all the overly exaggerated moves. There are tons 
 of these and are always fun to watch. There is also a create a rookie feature and homerun durby. 
 The Wii version is lacking some modes from the other versions like online mode, pinball mode, ect. 
 The graphics look good for a Wii game. The character models are great and the stadiums look nice 
 and varied. The effects look nice as well. The sound is decent, there is nothing too special about 
 the sound. I also noticed that the announcer isn't as good as in other baseball games but still 
 pretty good. Overall if you want a much deeper baseball experience than Wii baseball than this 
 is for you, but if you own another console, then you might want to get it for that console to get 
 the extra features. It seems like Wii owners were cheated out of some of the modes for some reason. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddaddy8
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jul 19, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  I can not tell you how much they messed up what could have been a good game. First come on wii 
 sports showed you the basics on how it should have been done. 2 If the would have kept the fielding 
 and pitching simple instead of using the motion sensers to overly complicate things we could have 
 had a home run on our hands instead of a foul ball. Third if they would have used simple motion 
 controls for the pitching, fielding and hitting the game would have been less of a head ache. Now 
 I really did like how they used the motion controls for the running of the bases. Well maybe next 
 year we will see if they will lern that sometimes simpler game controls make for a better sports 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romayo83
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jul 16, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  Well from the gamespot review i thought OK so the game has a few flaws it still looks fun and so 
 i baseball fan i am i bought it w/o and questions asked.
  
  WASTE OF MONEY! So the cool parts of the gameplay are when your at bat, the swing motion controls 
 work very well and it feels satisfying to hit a home run as its not so easy unless u get your power 
 bar to full. Controlling players around the bases its easy etc... tackling the catcher is amusing 
 too gotta love the bodychecks lol.
  
  now onto the outfielding... WHAT THE HECK HAPPENED?!? u can't even throw to the proper base where 
 a runner is trying to get it... Also the ball once hit your AI outfielders are just brutal at lets 
 see, catching, running, throwing u name it they suck hard. the only 1/2 fun part is pitching but 
 all those curve, side, fastball crap even mastering throwing into the white area every time the 
 computer NAILS IT... its just made too unfair and the game scores even set to 5 innings always end 
 up of scores 20-24, 19-28, etc...
  
  Brutal game very disappointed, homerun derby is a joke, a definate rental! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellmonkey012
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 12, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  The bigs is sort of like NFL Street for baseball. This is what baseball would be like if baseball 
 players were superheroes on steroids. The Bigs stars all of your favorite baseball stars supersized.
 
  
  THE GOOD: The Bigs is a very fun game to play if you are alone or with friends. You can make great 
 plays like hitting a ball so far it shatters the scoreboard or pitching so fast the ball is on 
 fire or jumping up a wall to catch a homerun. It has a good carreer mode, home run derby and fun 
 multi player to keep you playing for a while.
  
  THE BAD: This game has some difficult outfield, whenever somebpdy hits the ball my player just 
 dives for no reason and completely misses the ball. The graphics could be better. If you play this 
 game for over an hour you will get Wii Elbow ( wii elbow os when you play a game that makes you 
 move your arm for so long and it hurts when you move your elbow) .
  
  OVERALL: The Bigs is the funnest baseball game you can get right now, but I would rent it instead 
 of buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Padrepride
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 11, 2007 9:31 pm PT
Review:  When I first read that there was going to be a baseball game on the Wii, i was excited. I came 
 home and played it and wasn't blown away, but was impressed by the gameplay and solid commentary. 
 However, I was disappointed to see the lack of Home Run Pinball that was clearly visible in the 
 other two console versions. The gameplay consists of baseball movements like in Wii Sports but 
 The BIGS includes baserunning and fielding as well. I was first amused with the baserunning, which 
 was drumming the wiimote and nun chuck, but it became repetitive. I do like the pitching which 
 incorporates timing and actually breaking the ball yourself. The graphics were again second-tier 
 to the Xbox and PS3 versions but what else do you expect? The challenges get harder and harder 
 as you progress through the difficulty level to the point where the computer seems to have an unfair 
 advantage. One of the challenges was to hit 3 home runs. I kept hitting the balls over the fences 
 and each time an O. K. fielder lept over the wall and caught it for an out. Highlight plays seemed 
 to be too frequent. Overall though, I think The BIGS has a bright future and I will be first in 
 line to buy the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkhand44
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jul 10, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  This game actually looked pretty good for a Wii game. The batting is really easy to pick up as 
 well as the pitching. The biggest problem comes when you try to field. Fielding and getting the 
 ball the to base that you were trying is near impossible. Making the motion the way to throw the 
 ball right for first, up for second, left for third and down for home really sounds easy except 
 when you just slightly move on way while trying to go the way that you want it will through to 
 some base that you did not even have someone running to. in my opinion it would have been a lot 
 easier if they just used the directional pack and did the motion of the controler as the throw. 
 Everything else about the game is good but that one huge flaw with the fielding drowns the entire 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megaman09
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 8, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  At first I thought I wasted fifty bucks when I first played because it seemed the controls were 
 very unresponsive. But after about an hour I pretty much got the controls down and was playing 
 like a pro. So after I got by that little bump in the road The Bigs actually turned out to be a 
 great game. There are only a couple things that keep this game from being perfect, like no season 
 mode. The computer will also rob like ten homeruns a game so that can get a little annoying. This 
 game shines the best when you get some friends together and just play some two on two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: studwig
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 8, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Goes way more in depth than wii sports baseball with real players and a real atmoshere but far 
 from complete. The lack of a franchise mode is the biggest let down. The closest thing to a season 
 is the rookie mode which is an ok mode but i'd rather have a mode not based on one character but 
 the whole team and a mode that keeps track of stats better. The lack of online is another big disappointment 
 especially because the preview said it would be. I think the multiplayer is pretty good so online 
 would have been sweet. But overall it works out to be an acceptional game and brings hope for more 
 baseball games to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgodar
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jul 7, 2007 5:02 am PT
Review:  As a long-time sports gamer, baseball fanatic and Wii enthusiast, I was wholly disappointed by 
 this game.
  
  The primary problem is with the control scheme. The joy of the Wii is to physically mimic the actions 
 in the game. While the Bigs does ask you to make a throwing motion to pitch, you must also hold 
 and release a button within a force meter. So instead of feeling like you're pitching, you'll feel 
 like you're kicking off in Madden circa 2001.
  
  The same holds true for most action in the game - motion control movements are tacked-on and unintuitive, 
 and supplemented with complex button mashing. Why on earth do I need to coordinate the nunchuck 
 analog stick, Z-button, motion of the Wii remote and A button just to slide into second base?
 
  
  The design of the game is a nice midway point between the realism to the point of tedium of most 
 baseball sims and the ridiculous arcade style of the Slugfest series.
  
  This game is a huge disappointment for those of us hoping to swing for the fences in our living 
 rooms. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redban2
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 5, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  I was anxiously awaiting this game's release, because I badly wanted a baseball game for the Wii. 
 I was a little disappointed that all I would get was an arcade game, as I wanted a simulation. 
 But I still hoped for the best.
  
  Did the game turn out as good as I hoped? Not quite..
  
  First, To bat, you have hold the nunchuck and the Wii-mote at the same time. So forget about 
 trying to hold the remote like a real bat. You can't do it, unless your an octopus. This game gets 
 really home run happy. Which was expected, as it's advertised as a game like that. But there's 
 a problem. Unless you execute a power-up home run, then chances are you're going to see CPU attempt 
 to rob it. (Which they successfully do 90% of the time) . A typical 5 inning game will involve CPU 
 robbing you of 3-5 homeruns. Same thing with diving catches. CPU will constantly do it to you... A 
 LOT. It's annoying, and gets stale watching that same predictable motion.
  
  Speaking of motions... Like I said, the game gets homerun happy. But there seems to be 2-3 places 
 where a power-up homerun lands. It either lands off the foul pole, or it bangs of a scoreboard. 
 It looks awesome the first time you see it. But there's no other places where the home run lands. 
 So it get stale quick, as your watching that same homerun over and over and over again... After 
 one quick game, you've seen all the homerun animations there is.
  
  The game is very, very dry in overall modes. You've got the typical exhibition. Then you have a 
 Home Run Derby. But You can't even have a tournament, like real life. You can only have a competition 
 between 2 players. First to hit 10 hrs wins. Basically, this is batting practice. You will play 
 this mode once or twice, and that's it.
  Rookie Challenge, is fun. But I would prefer a season mode. Or at least give us some stats and 
 end of season awards in the rookie challenge. This was a big letdown for me.
  
  Because of the lack of quality modes, and variety of homeruns, the game seems to lack value. Rosters 
 are weird too. There are only 3 starters, 2 relievers, and 1 closer on each team. All the batters 
 are there though. But a certain future Hall of Fame pitcher for the Yanks is nowhere to be found. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daniel8893
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 5, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  The game gives you a variety of different game modes. Personally, i found that multiplayer is one 
 of the best modes on the game. Even those this is the first baseball game out for the wii, it will 
 probably be the best out of all the next ones to come out. One main thing that they left out in 
 the game is season mode though, but they do show some sympathy by giving us rookie mode which is 
 i think better than season mode...... too bad they dont have both anyway, the way they portray 
 this game is that it is a more aggressive way when playing baseball which it is. The sound of the 
 game is amazing. When your playing, it feels like your at fenway watching the bo-sox in real life. 
 The big hits make you want to play this game non-stop...... which is what i've done. So i stand 
 by my rating and i am very disappointed in the rating that gamespot gave it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eliteasthmatic
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 3, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  2k sports has done a great job making a game that gives a full baseball experience and finally 
 putting some fun into it. This game is great for multi-player 1v1 and the rookie challenge is a 
 great addition. It may seem difficult at times but what game isn't! I was disgusted to see what 
 many fellow Wii gamers had given it. This game is a prime example that sports games can be awesome 
 on the Wii. If Madden 07 got the rating it did then this game should be 2 times that. My recommendation 
 for any Wii owner especially those who are fans of baseball is to buy this game immediately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d-ray12
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 3, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  This game is fun and addicting. You get to make ur own rookie, and do wat is some-wat of a season. 
 But they are missing season mode which is the only thing that disappoints me in this game. The 
 controls are fine once you get used to them, but it might take awhile until you do get the hang 
 of it. The graphics are one of the best looking baseball games ive seen on a 480i, or 480p picture. 
 The game play is fun and addicting, ive been playing it most of the time im at home. I advise all 
 the wii owners to buy this game because it's definitely an experience you don't want to miss out 
 on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xvwvx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 2, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  I was eagerly anticipating this game for a while. Ever since I got my hands on WiiSports, I knew 
 that baseball was something that could work perfectly on the Wii. WiiSports Baseball was fun for 
 a while, but it lacked the depth I was looking for in a real baseball game. So when I heard about 
 The Bigs, I was stoked. I wanted to get my hands on a proper baseball game with a little more depth.
 
  
  The Bigs is that, to an extent. It is way deeper than WiiSports Baseball, but it still lacks the 
 depth that I want. It's a fun game, but it is an arcade game, so if you're looking for a realistic 
 baseball sim, you're still going to have to wait until 2K Sports or EA decide to bring their respective 
 MLB franchises to Wii next year.
  
  Let's talk about the bad first. The game is hard. It's an arcade, which should tell you that it's 
 for the casual, but it isn't. There's a lot to the game. The controls aren't exactly intuitive. 
 There are a lot of motions that shouldn't have been part of the game. They're not bad, per se, 
 but there are easier ways to do what they do. There's a slight delay between when you swing and 
 when your on-screen-persona swings, and that takes a while to get used to.
  
  Second, the game is pretty shallow. Rookie Challenge is fun. It lets you take your character from 
 a rook to an All-Star. But that's it. There's no season mode. There's no franchise mode. Nothing 
 of that nature. Just pick-up-and-play. Which is good, unless, like me, you were looking for an 
 in-depth baseball game. Don't get me wrong. It's a fun game. There's plenty to do. Just not franchise 
 modes.
  
  The game is nice to look at. Good animations and character models. Good effects. The music is a 
 little dated, but I found a few old songs that I enjoyed on the sound track.
  
  The gameplay is solid. Besides the unexpectedly steep learning curve, it's a game that you can 
 get into pretty quickly. Pitching is simply a blast. You point where you want your pitch to go, 
 and you throw . Twist your wrist at the last moment and release the button and there you go. I 
 love it. Batting is fun too, and the power meter adds a little bit of strategy to the game.
  
  Overall, this game is solid, without a doubt. I'm having a good time playing it. It's shallow, 
 though, so if you are looking for a realistic baseball game, this isn't it. If you're a big sports 
 fan like me and you just want to play a game that's a little more meaty than WiiSports Baseball, 
 then check this game out. Nice visuals, fun gameplay, but a steep learning curve make this game 
 a fun, but not great, game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmish82
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 2, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  When I saw previews for this game, I thought this was going to be the definitive baseball game 
 for the Wii. After playing the game for a while, it fails to deliver on this but is still a fun 
 game to play.
  
  The Bigs is similar to an NFL Blitz or NBA Jam type game where certain aspects are exaggerated. 
 Instead of 9 innings, the games last 5 innings, though this option can be changed to 9 in the options 
 menu. The players all look beefed up and the hits and pitches are exaggerated with some nice sound 
 effects. You hit the ball by swinging the remote and you pitch by throwing like a baseball. This 
 all works very well. What doesn't work very well in the game is the fielding and base-running. 
 So many times I'd get a hit with a man on first running to second. Before I know it, my first base 
 runner has a leadoff on first even though I wanted him to stay at first and I didn't know it. All 
 of a sudden he gets tagged out. This became very frustrating to me b/c it's hard to monitor all 
 of your base-runners. The fielding can be difficult as there's a slight delay from when the ball 
 is hit until you get control of your fielder. At this point the ball usually gets right past you, 
 giving the runner an extra base or two.
  
  One other gripe I have with the game is throwing the ball using a fielder. The motion controls 
 are very unresponsive for this and usually get mixed up. I've tried to throw to 2nd or 3rd base 
 from the outfield so many times, yet it would go home or to first, allowing many runners to take 
 extra bases. I had to resort to the D-Pad, which can fortunately be used to throw. If not for this, 
 the game would have been much more aggravating.
  There is a rookie challenge mode which is very fun. You create your own rookie player and play 
 a series of games, training camps, and scenarios (ex: 9th inning, you're down by 1 run. come back 
 and win) . This all works very well and as you play you gain points to upgrade your rookie. The 
 game has a home-run derby and exhibition games, but lacks much else. There is no regular season 
 mode except for the rookie challenge mode. Also, the Wii lacks an online mode. Upon initially playing 
 the Bigs, I was very disappointed. Once I got past the learning curve, the game became much more 
 fun to play. This game is a good start to the series, but can definitely make some improvements 
 to the next release. I'll be looking forward to the Bigs 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCMan13
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 30, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Ok so I will tell you this now, The BIGS for the Nintendo Wii is certainly not the best baseball 
 game ever although for Wii players it is the best that we have at the moment. Although when you 
 get into it and learn the controls it is really a great game. At this point I have played more 
 multiplayer matches than single player and they are extremely fun. The multiplayer is I think the 
 best part of this game and even after I have long finished the single player Rookie Challenge I 
 will be popping in The BIGS to play nine innnings with a friend. It also has a good selection of 
 teams including all the american and national teams and the two all star teams. (The All-Star teams 
 are really good) . The single player story consists of you entering as a rookie to your favorite 
 team and eventually hopefully bringing them to win the world series and become the team star. I 
 havent got past Spring Training yet but I have certainly had fun with it so far. So just to go 
 down the list: Gameplay: The gameplay is fun fast paced arcade baseball action that can easily 
 be enjoyed 9/10. Graphics: Ok this is where big points are lost. The graphics wont make you not 
 by it but by this stage... It looks like a early gamecube game as far as some of the graphics... 
 6/10. Sound: The sound includes about 30 or so rock and rap hits for music and good commentary 
 in all a 8/10. Value: I think that this really brings back some of the memories of older baseball 
 games and really brings out the love of the game in people. For that I give it a 9/10 for value. 
 And although the tilt takes some time to get used to it is good so a 8/10. All in all a 8.2 this 
 is a great game and I would reccommend it to the serious and the casual so please enjoy :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jim1029
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 30, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  Right now, I am playing this game more then any other Wii game I have. Why, you may ask? Because 
 it's a baseball game that is intentionally over the top, making it extremely fun to play. What 
 would you rather do: Hit a 400 foot home run in another game, or hit a 550 foot home run that shatters 
 the scoreboard in this game? The controls are pretty good. Don't worry about having to bat with 
 the nunchuk, it doesn't take anything away like you might expect it to. The only thing is that 
 sometimes, in the menu, the options will scroll without you actually doing anything. Also, the 
 Home Run Derby mode is awesome too. Even if you're struggling to pick up the controls for the game, 
 you can do a Home Run Derby. It seems like the mode was made for those people. Overall, a very 
 good game. Any baseball fan should check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reactionsok
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jun 29, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't very non-gamer friendly - it requires some skill and honestly its fielding is pretty 
 poor - i don't know what is going on even after doing the training. I have to say that the graphics 
 are highly disapointing after playing RE4 Wii Edition : ( i don't know what gives but the controls 
 don't seem to responsive. MOst likely its due to the fact that i am still learning.
  
  So there is a learning curve - I'd hold out for a better baseball game before plunking down $$$$$$$$$$ 
 - and what no Barry Again? What gives with him - what a jerk!
  
  I would say as a download it might be worth your time to just check it out - but not worth the 
 money - Hope this helps - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolkid4
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 29, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  A week ago I just couldnt wait till I got this game, well it's alot different then I expected. 
 It's much more addictive then I thought it would be but then again it gets boring fast with some 
 of the aspects of the game. I don't think 2kSports did enough to make this game exciting in the 
 Rookie Challenge. I mean what are they thinking you dont put a franchise mode in this game so rookie 
 challenge better be great. Basically you make a guy and eventually after many 5 inning games you 
 make it to the World Series no matter what. It would be much better if there was atleast 5 STARTING 
 PITCHERS on a team! Then you come to s steal a player game, you win it but you dont know who to 
 steal. Lets say you dont know if you should steal King Felix or Ichiro on the Mariners. You get 
 Felix then your playing the Twins next where you could have stole Johan Santana instead. They should 
 have added a schedule also budgets so you cant get the best players from all the teams. Also it 
 doesn't make sense why you can't be a pitcher. All they had to do was change the stat challenges 
 and add a few more training games. Now, gameplay can be annoying also. Yes I love the gameplay 
 but accept for one problem. The reat catches happen too frequently and it seams like they never 
 work when you have a chance. It's like impossible to hit a home run unless the fielder lets the 
 ball bounce off the glove and go into the stands. That's what grinds my gears about this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevesurdaddy12
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 29, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- 8
  Graphics- 8
  Sound- 9
  Value-10
  Tilt-9
  
  The gameplay is fun and innovative; however, can also be quite annoying. Sometimes when pitching, 
 you have pitch 3 or 4 times for it to catch on. Another thing i didnt like was that they didnt 
 go over everything, i had to go into the controls and test everything out myself. The gameplay 
 is cool and fun, but can get quite annoying
  
  The graphics are decent, cant really complain*using HD cables*, it looks great, cool slow mo, and 
 some pretty cool detailed images for a Wii game. Overall, one of the better looking games from 
 the wii
  
  Sound is great, feels like you're really at a ball park
  
  The value is great, because you can replay and replay and never get bored, Family and friends join 
 in an its just an overall fun thing to do, you will enjoy this game
  
  tilt was good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assbubbles
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 29, 2007 5:30 am PT
Review:  This game seems to go for more of the style and looks to create the fun. It lacks franchise mode 
 which really sucks. That is the most fun thing that MLB games have. The game-play is ok, but it 
 doesn't really work that well. It's pretty much like NFL Blitz for Baseball. When you bat, it lags 
 behind, and there is little to no strategy involved while batting. No hot-cold zones or batting 
 technique. Instead it's hold A for power and all about timing (which lags) . Fielding takes a while 
 to get used to, but then again, so does every new MLB game. Pitching is probably the best about 
 the game-play. It is unique because when you flick the wii-remote you can turn it either way to 
 throw a different pitch. It definitely takes a step up from the old MLB games on that. But by not 
 having a franchise mode, this game is not that great. It's pretty much a short-lived game. It can 
 be fun, but I don't think this game will be all that popular. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diflogeit
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 28, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  The BIGS changes the way you play baseball video games, I think it's best for the wii. Although 
 it turns out, the BIGS is not an online game, but that is the only downside. You can set up a regular 
 game of baseball, with any amount of innings you choose. Not the entire rosters of teams are included 
 though. For example, you have a 3-man starting rotation, 2 relievers, and 1 closer. You have your 
 9 starters, and 3 or 4 bench players. In create a rookie mode, you create a young player, who sucks 
 by the way. He travels across the country with your team and gets better and better after seasons, 
 before he becomes a legend. You can also give your player some attitiude in new bates, sunglasses, 
 and tatoos. Multiplayer mode is fun and confusing. It is very entertaining, but you may be contsantly 
 bumping into one another. Watch out for each other, because if you nail a friend with a wii remote, 
 it really hurts. When you swing the remote, you swing it a lot harder than you would think. Once 
 when playing wii bowling, I accidentally ripped the pocket off my friend's jacket. Overall the 
 BIGS is a great game, but you would have to be a fan of baseball to appreciate it. In my opinion, 
 it plays best on wii, despite not as good graphics. Also, the soundtrack is mostly heavy metal, 
 so for you metal fans, this is an extra draw. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Falconsfan60
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 27, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  The BIGS for wii has everything you could ask for as if you were playing baseball in real life. 
 Pitch, run, steal, bat, and many other qualities of baseball make the wii remote very useful. You 
 hold the remote like a baseball bat, which really makes you be playing into a real game of baseball. 
 The multiplayer is by far the best part of this game, and maybe even one of the funnest multiplayers 
 i have ever played all time. You can be on a team of two, being you the pitcher, and your friend 
 the defensive players. You can also have 2 against 2 and 1 against 2. Theres also the rookie mode 
 which you create a rookie and have him be on whatever team youd want him to be on and progess your 
 way to team games, workouts, and many other features. However, this game couldve been a lot better. 
 For one thing, the graphics look pretty bad, considering the team stadiums not evening looking 
 like they are in real baseball. And also the stances for the players couldve been cool if they 
 had there real stances in real baseball, which on this it just had a player with a baseball bat. 
 The players on the other hand dont look like their normal selves that much. I know the wii isnt 
 made for graphics, but they couldve at least made it a little better, well at least better than 
 psp graphics, but that wasnt the plan. There arent many modes to choose from either. i was hoping 
 they wouldve had a season mode or online play, and i dont know why they didnt. But on second case, 
 using the wii remote is just awesome, and it still is a great baseball game. So my final word is 
 get this game if you just want to have fun with friends or whoever your playing with, which makes 
 it well worth playing. So if nintendo makes another baseball game again for the wii, if they could 
 correct some of these issues in this one, than i would consider it the funnest game ever, by far, 
 just because of the use of the wii remote. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
