-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Grim Adventures of Billy & Mandy
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/thegrimadventuresofbillymandy/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good sense of humor and style.
 Frantic, fast-paced gameplay.
 Fun, multitiered stages and a decent variety of game modes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The camera makes it especially difficult to see what's going on.
 Extremely short story mode.
 The action gets old quickly.
 Makes very little use of the Wii Remote.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.6
Critic Score: 6.0, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 101 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Midway
Developer: High Voltage Soft.
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date: Nov 16, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This game is surprisingly enjoyable for a few hours, but after that it goes from good, mindless 
 fun to mind-numbingly repetitive. 

  The Grim Adventures of Billy and Mandy is a 3D fighting game based on the Cartoon Network animated 
 series of the same name. Borrowing heavily from games like Power Stone, Billy and Mandy features 
 frantic, often chaotic gameplay that's surprisingly fun for the first few hours. It doesn't take 
 long to unlock all of the characters, stages, and game modes, though, and once you've done that 
 you'll have a hard time feeling compelled to keep playing the game. The Wii version is particularly 
 disappointing because it's almost identical to the GameCube and PlayStation 2 versions, and makes 
 very little use of the unique capabilities of the Wii Remote.  

          The levels are all very destructible, and it's fun to watch them change as you fight.  
    

  The gameplay in Billy and Mandy is simple. You choose one of the 15 playable characters and beat 
 the living crap out of up to three other characters at a time. You have anywhere from one to four 
 lives going into battle, and when you lose all of your lives you're out of the match. Each character 
 has a weak attack and a slower, harder-to-pull-off strong attack. In addition, each character has 
 a couple of special "mojo" attacks. As you fight you'll find and collect mojo balls, which fill 
 up your mojo meter. Once it's full, you can perform a mojo smackdown, which is a series of attacks 
 that automatically hit for heavy damage. If you fill up your mojo meter two times over, you can 
 do a mojo meltdown attack. When you pull off a mojo meltdown the camera will zoom in on the action 
 and a series of button icons will appear on the screen. If you press the corresponding buttons 
 in time, you'll instantly kill your opponent. If you're playing the Wii version of the game, instead 
 of pressing buttons you have to aim the Wii Remote at targets that randomly appear onscreen. Aside 
 from that the only difference in the Wii version of the game is that to perform a strong attack 
 you have to shake the Wii Remote instead of pressing a button.  

  The combat isn't limited to simple melee exchanges and special attacks, though. Each stage is filled 
 with items that you can pick up and throw, such as pumpkins, stones, basketballs, barbecue grills, 
 and so on. There are also treasure chests scattered about that contain all kinds of weapons that 
 you can pick up and use. There are ranged weapons such as the pane-o-glass gun, which (appropriately) 
 fires panes of glass, a worm gun that shoots exploding grubs, and a laser-shooting scythe. There 
 are also melee weapons like swords, hammers, and clubs. But wait, that's not all; there are also 
 various traps and mounted weapons in each stage, so you can wait for your enemy to walk on a specific 
 part of the floor before hitting a switch to make the floor electrified. Or, you can hop in a giant 
 ballista and start shooting down your enemies from afar. All of the props in each level give you 
 plenty of ways to go about beating up your enemies, and when you're playing with four players the 
 action can get chaotic, which makes it difficult to tell what's actually going on at times.  

 
  All of the standard game modes are accounted for in Billy and Mandy. There's an extremely brief 
 story mode that takes you through about half a dozen stages to face a weak boss. It only takes 
 about 20 minutes to finish the story mode, so once you've played through it a number of times to 
 unlock secret characters, outfits, and video clips, there's no reason to go back. You can also 
 unlock all that stuff by completing the 45 missions in the game. The missions are all just battles 
 with special objectives, such as to smash as many pumpkins as you can within three minutes. The 
 missions are fun ways to unlock new characters, but they aren't especially difficult, and you'll 
 probably be able to beat them all within a few hours.  

  There's also a versus mode in the game that lets you set up a fight to your own specifications. 
 You can add up to three other computer-controlled characters, or up to three of your friends. There 
 are several ways to battle, with eight different modes in all. There's the self-explanatory last 
 man standing mode, as well as some fun and interesting alternate modes like bask-eye-ball, which 
 requires you to grab a creature's eye, take it to a panel to change its color, and then throw it 
 back into its socket to earn points. There's also a capture the flag type of game, a sudden death 
 mode, and a mode where you earn coins for attacking your opponents and lose coins for being attacked. 
 With a decent number of game modes and options to customize your fights, the versus mode offers 
 the most flexibility and longevity of any mode in the game.  

  The presentation in Billy and Mandy is visually charming, but some minor technical problems occasionally 
 get in the way. All of the stages are large and colorful, with themes like the underworld, an Egyptian 
 tomb, a pumpkin patch, and a mad scientist's lab. The levels are large and very interactive, and 
 they often change as your battles wage on. In one level, for instance, you start fighting on a 
 rock platform in a pool of lava, but then a huge serpent swims up and you end up fighting on its 
 back as it swims around. These touches make the stages much more exciting and interesting than 
 they otherwise would be. The characters look bright and colorful, and they animate well. The problem 
 is that you don't often get to see what's going on because the camera likes to zoom way out, and 
 there are no indicators to highlight the characters on the screen so that you can tell each one 
 from the myriad of other junk flying about the map. Also, the frame rate does tend to slow down 
 a bit every once in a while. It doesn't occur often, but it's noticeable when it does.  

          Depending on how many lives you're playing with, the battles can last quite a while.   
   

  The sound is appropriately goofy and over-the-top to match the style of the game. "Weird Al" Yankovic 
 ( UHF ) provides the voice of the announcer and shouts things like, "Player one needs ham badly!" 
 throughout each battle. The characters are all fully voiced, but they each have only a few lines 
 of dialogue. Some characters speak in cutscenes, but all of the other characters have one battle 
 phrase, one victory phrase, and that's about it.  

  The Grim Adventures of Billy and Mandy is easy to pick up and play, regardless of your familiarity 
 with the license. It's a very basic brawler that does nothing to tamper with a proven formula, 
 but it's still better than the average game based on a cartoon license. The versions of the game 
 are all practically identical, so if you're looking for a new way to put the Wii Remote to use, 
 you'll be disappointed with this game. On the other hand, that can be a benefit, because you can 
 play the Wii version of the game with a GameCube controller if you're so inclined. That means that 
 if you only have one Wii Remote, you can dig out your old GameCube controllers and still be able 
 to get some multiplayer brawls in. Billy and Mandy is fun while it lasts, but unfortunately just 
 doesn't have enough substance to keep you entertained for very long.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: AweWiiGamer1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  The Grim Adventures of Billy and Mandy is one of those games that will consistently surprise you. 
 Billy and Mandy is a children's licensed game with a difference. Midway Games have put quite a 
 lot of effort into Billy and Mandy's first console game. The Grim Adventures of Billy and Mandy 
 is a joyously, dizzily goofy fame, that is graphically outstanding, and quite addictive.
  
  The core gameplay of Billy and Mandy allows you to pick a wide variety of characters from the show. 
 You fight in fully destructible enviorments based on places from the show, and a wide variety of 
 goofy weapons scattered around the areas. Billy and Mandy makes a high use of the abilty to execute 
 either light style or heavy style of attacks. You have special suits that will give you super power, 
 such as Billy's costume to create destruction: Zoot suit (Little Rock of Horror) Billy Bot (Big 
 Boogey Adventure) . There is a surprising amount of depth on how you execute your powers in Billy 
 and Mandy, and kicks CN games off to a high standard.
  
  Graphically, Billy and Mandy looks outstanding. It completely captures all the qurkiness and colourful 
 vibrancy of the TV show, and lots of the wacky physical comedy of the show is visually displayed 
 very well.
  
  Overall, if you are a fan of Billy and Mandy, you will not disapointed. If you want a quirky game, 
 this will also do more then fit your bill. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RudeDude224
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 6:10 am PT
Review:  As my first Wii game (along with Sonic and the Secret Rings) this game was acceptable. At first, 
 it's awesome button mashing fun, but it does tend to get boring after a while. Story Mode is good, 
 but SHORT. There's only about 5, 6, or 7 levels (depending on which character you pick) . You can 
 play as Billy, Mandy, Grim, Mogar, Fred Fredburger, Nergal, Nergal Jr, Eris and more.
  I thought this was supposed to be a Wii game? There's only one way to move around and that's to 
 move the Wiimote up to do a heavy attack. I mean, COME ON! The point of the Wii is to move around. 
 All you do is move the Wiimote up.
  The finishing moves are okay. Some characters have good ones, some characters have crappy ones. 
 But Fred Fredburger's finishing move is ridiculous. He drops a giant box of Nachos on the opponent. 
 How stupid is that?!!? Grim's is quite good. He opens up a portal which sucks in the opponent. 
 And Nergal's is cool, too. He electrocutes the enemy with the tentacles on his back and says, "you're 
 in for a SHOCKING good time".
  The game is good, but you might want to rent it first to see if you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CursemarkChris
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 19, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  The graphics in this game , are pretty good. But the hilarious game play , is what really got me 
 . The game had me rolling for the most part, and the multi player that goes up to 4 is great for 
 me, so when I have a whole bunch of friends over we cane all play. The only things I wish for it 
 is to have is Wi Fi mode and also for the story mode to be much longer than that so I can actually, 
 spend time playing it. so because of this, I give the funny game a good 7. gf gfj dhg ydy gg g 
 g d s a x v b g h t d x x c b n jm yh g f b f d v v d v vc d c df d v c d v d s f f d df v f d 
 f f f f f f f d s f f d v d f b f d g g h f d d d d f f f gb f d d g f f g g f g h rf f g rf g 
 h g f g h f h j f b n g r d d f g v c x z a s d f g h k u y g b. And remember to play the game, 
 and also remember who the best gamer is , yeah its me , Curse Mark Chris, the great !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwefanforlife
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 2, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  I have to say im a big fan of Grim adventures of Billy and Mandy of the TV series but the game 
 well no. The Grim Adventures of Billy and Mandy is one of Cartoon Network's popular shows and its 
 just a show that i do love. As i like the series a lot i went out and bought the game and or did 
 i make a big mistake this game is really short only 5 levels long. Another disappointing thing 
 about this its not an adventure its just fighting, adding to the Wii control system just will not 
 even fit to this game it feels like everything your doing just does'nt work but i still finished 
 the game with them took me about 40 minutes. The game features levels from the show it's self, 
 it features 20 players you will have seen from TV.
  
  On a good note this features all the cast members voices from the TV show i just like Richard Horvitz 
 doing Billy's voice and Greg Eagles doing Grim's voice. But the voices are only short sound clips 
 meaning your going to get the same ones every time. High Voltage Software feels like they never 
 put any thought into the game instead it looks like it has been rushed. The story is way to short 
 this is just a direct port as it was from the gamecube and it feels that the controls just dont 
 even respond. I cant believe that Cartoon Network let them do this to the game its just really 
 disappointing.
  
  If you see this cheap then buy it but you will be disappointed with how short this game is next 
 time get a better developer and dont use High Voltage Software there games are terrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abohling
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 6, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  I did not voluntarily purchase this game and I have not played it in mulitplayer mode so I can't 
 judge it on multiplayer quality. As a one player game this game is worthless. The whole time I 
 was playing I had no idea what was going on or if the controls were even working. You spawn and 
 die and spawn and die and die and die ... then cry.
  
  I ended up ditching the Wii remote and using the Gamecube controller thinking that might help - 
 it did not. I hate this game. This was obviously a Gamecube title that they added a few Wii remote 
 type controls to in order to have it work on the Wii.
  
  I sum it up thusly:
  The Grim Adventures of Billy and Mandy : Super Smash Brothers :: Sonic Shuffle : Mario Party 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stoufzilla
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 28, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  For some reason in England Billy &amp; Mandy only came out for the Wii, I was planning on getting 
 it for the PS2 but I'd already bought a Wii when it came out over here, theres only been 2 reviews 
 for this game so I thought I'd give my opinion on it.
  
  Gameplay - Nothing particularly new here, fans of games like Smash Bros will be constantly comparing 
 this game to similar predecessors but the option to use the Wiis motion sensor controls make this 
 game feel kind of new, and the new destructible / altering environments separate this game from 
 being just a plain old copy of older brawlers. If the motion sensor controls are just too weird 
 for you (if you're used to using the gamecube controller) then its simply a matter of plugging 
 on in the controller ports then you're ready to go. Billy &amp; Mandy, like Smash Bros, does suffer 
 some camera issues - sometimes when theres a lot going on in the game, the camera ends up zooming 
 out to try and fit pretty much everything on the screen, its not that much of a problem but in 
 hectic multiplayer modes like tag it can be a bit disorientating. The arenas you fight in are very 
 interactive and pretty much fully destroyable which is a nice touch, and the stages constantly 
 shift from tiers (usually about 3 or 4 tiers per stage) for example, one minute you're fighting 
 in the Egyptian tomb underneath Irwin's house, then the whole thing collapses on you and your characters 
 die and are sent to the Nordic afterlife, these tiers add variety to what would be a pretty dull 
 stage otherwise. The story mode is pretty short, you'll only play it through to unlock other characters 
 and costumes, but the Mission Mode is longer and offers specific challenges to complete, some of 
 which are particularly challenging - one where you're Grim and have to fight Lord Pain, the Boogeyman 
 and General Skarr all at once, when they're all against you, and each hit sucks mojo from the opponent 
 - comes to mind. Mission mode unlocks new characters and costumes and you'll spend more time playing 
 through mission mode than story mode. This game shines in its multiplayer mode, up to 4 players 
 each choose a character, each of which has 3 different costumes, from there you choose one of the 
 many battle modes, from a simple last man standing to an explosive tag match and a unique Billy 
 &amp; Mandy style Basketball game (a particularly hectic mode to choose for multiplayer) , from 
 there you can choose a stage, of which you can choose one of the 3 or 4 tiers to play in, from 
 there you can choose battle parameters - for example, if you dont perform a melee attack within 
 a certain time span you explode and take damage - there is an absolute ton of battle parameters 
 to choose from, from there you can even choose one of the many weapon sets which can alter the 
 gameplay significantly. As you can see, such a huge variety of options to choose from makes sure 
 that no two battles are ever quite the same.
  
  Graphics - I really like the job they did on the cell-shaded graphics, carrying on the feel of 
 the cartoons through the game, both the stages and characters look identical to the cartoons, there 
 are the odd huh? moments with some of the cutscenes in terms of the character models (Billy's dad's 
 nose looks a bit squashed in one of the cutscenes that he's in) but its expected that when you're 
 taking 2D anything and making it 3D, theres going to be some differences between the two. Overall 
 a visually impressive game.
  
  Sound - ALL of the voice actors from the cartoon feature in the game - I'd hate to see a Richard 
 Horvitz sound-a-like, I mean, the guy has such a... distinctive... voice, the voice acting is all 
 done fantastically, each character adding their own little quips about their opponents (which are 
 opponent specific I might add - characters actually taunt each other, referencing to a few episodes 
 often - a really nice touch) I've often lost a life due to laughing so hard at some of the things 
 the characters have said - Billy, General Skarr and Hoss Delgado in particular set me off pretty 
 bad. The only problem with the sound is that each character only has one entrance / victory line 
 and these get annoying after a while - not that much of a problem, the entrances and victories 
 can be easily skipped.
  
  Value - I picked this game up for about &pound;30 and as I mentioned earlier, such a huge variety 
 of options to choose from with the many modes this game has makes this title good value for money, 
 your friends will get sick of one of you constantly beating the hell out of them long before you 
 actually run out of things to do.
  
  Tilt - although essentially nothing all that new, the destructible / altering stages and the many 
 modes and options to choose from sets this game apart from similar predecessors.
  
  The main plus with this game is the games massive variety of things to do, parameters to set, modes 
 to play and characters to use. Gamers who loved Smash Bros will have a hard time comparing the 
 two as Smash Bros is (rightfully) up there on some metaphorical pillar for a lot of people, and 
 in that case this game may come across as just a tired, old copy. If you look past the similarities 
 this game is a decent brawler and adds a lot of variety that past games havent featured. A must 
 buy for fans of the series and you will love every minute of this game, for other though, rent 
 it if you want, its nothing all that new but some may find the multiplayer mode reason enough to 
 buy this game.
  
  Thank you for your time and thanks for reading my review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyberbanana1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 26, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  I have loved the show Billy and Mandy forever, and i was thrilled when it came out. I thought it 
 was a great idea. The plot was a little lacking in story mode, but what else could be expected 
 from their writers. Graphic were colorful and vibrant. I especially loved how Weird Al voiced the 
 announcer, he is like my idol. I thought all the built in modifications that could be applied in 
 multiplayer mode was a great addition, making no two battle alike. Changing stages keep you on 
 your feet, from a giant pumpkin chasing you, to a house being set on fire by a three headed dog. 
 Not a masterpiece, this game pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigatron
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 25, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  The Grim Adventures of Billy and Mandy is a kid's show known for it's offbeat humor that reaches 
 past its intended audience. Well now, it has reached game form. There's a pretty good cast of fighters, 
 including fan favorites such as Fred Fredburger and Hoss Delgado. The combat is simplistic, limited 
 to a handful of attacks and a special move unique to each character. Some characters are fast, 
 others are powerful. It's really simple, but this game is intended for kids, so the lack of depth 
 is forgivable. The stages you fight in are fun and interactive, full of weapons you can use. In 
 order to get more fun out of the game, you need to play with friends. Story mode is worthwhile, 
 but only because it re-enacts certain episodes, and you can unlock characters like hoss del-freakin'-gado. 
 THe sound is probably the game's most redeeming quality, full of VO and the game's announcer is 
 Weird Al. The graphics are charming and they imitate the show well, but they suffer from lack of 
 detail. Overall, I can easily recommend this to fans of the show, but if you're over 12, you'll 
 probably want a title that packs more GAME. If you give it a rental like I did, you probably won't 
 regret it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
