-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Golden Compass
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/thegoldencompass/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 You get to play as a giant polar bear.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lousy timed button-pressing, remote-jerking sequences make up the bulk of gameplay.
 Tedious busywork.
 Terrible platforming elements are capped by a bad camera and loose controls.
 Inferior production values.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 13, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4
Critic Score: 3.6, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 4.6, 65 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Shiny
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Dec 4, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Golden Compass is just another family-friendly film cash-in with few redeeming qualities.

  The Golden Compass owes a lot to 2005's The Chronicles of Narnia. Like Narnia, it is a game based 
 on a film based on a fantasy novel, and it even goes so far as to summarily lift hunks of gameplay 
 directly from the older title. Yet for some reason, the designers picked all of the bad stuff while 
 leaving behind the good. The result is a muddled mishmash of gameplay ideas that lacks focus and 
 certainly lacks any sense of fun.  

           Hmm. They must be talking about a different story.      

  If you aren't familiar with 
 the accompanying film, or the Philip Pullman novel on which it's based, you will probably be rather 
 confused by the game. As Lyra Belacqua, you seek to save your friend Roger from the grasp of evil 
 folkloric kidnappers known as Gobblers. Lyra is accompanied by her daemon Pantalaimon (or Pan, 
 for short) , who is the physical embodiment of Lyra's soul, and she is occasionally joined by a 
 hulking armored polar bear named Iorek. Lyra also possesses an instrument called an alethiometer -- the 
 golden compass of the title -- which can answer any question that she asks it. You'll figure out 
 what's going on in bits and pieces and with the help of short clips from the Golden Compass film. 
 Yet you'll likely never care about Lyra or her companions, and important chunks of exposition are 
 completely glossed over, leaving you wondering what's going on or why you should care.  

  Gameplay is a mess. There are a lot of ideas at work here, but none of them pan out all that well. 
 First up: exploration. You spend a lot of time roaming about doing busywork, particularly in an 
 insanely long and boring sequence on the Gyptian vessel. The highlight during this level is -- get 
 ready for it -- mopping the deck. In other levels, these tasks may have you hiding under furniture 
 or throwing snowballs, but none of them are interesting, and they are generally sliced up by cutscenes 
 and other gameplay mechanics.  

  Platforming ushers in more mediocrity. Granted, there are some nice ideas here. Lyra can use Pan 
 as a grappling hook and latch on to poles for simplified Prince of Persia-inspired swinging, and 
 the duo can glide for short distances. There are also beams to keep your balance on as you cross, 
 though these moments seem to take forever, since Lyra walks across them so slowly. The controls 
 are super-loose, which is deadly on the dock level -- one of the dumbest platforming sequences ever 
 dreamed up. Not only do the slippery controls make Lyra a pain to maneuver, but you can't manually 
 control the camera, which makes it impossible to judge distance. Even worse, the camera has a tendency 
 to move on its own in the middle of jumps and balancing acts. Expect to reload this level countless 
 times, while cursing the designer who created it.  

  The Golden Compass relies heavily on timed button sequences, already one of the most overused mechanics 
 in modern-day games. Attacked by a giant bee? Press some buttons (or jerk the Wii Remote in the 
 appropriate directions, if you'd rather) in the right order. Need to push over an ice bridge? Press 
 or jerk some more. Even some boss fights are won in this manner. There is some action buried in 
 here, though it's found mostly in the game's first and final levels. Playing as Iorek, you'll paw 
 through three types of enemies: witches, Tartars, and wolves. Once you build up enough rage by 
 using standard melee attacks, you can pound the ground to do extra damage. You can also grab an 
 enemy and fling it around, but for the most part, you can defeat this tiny assortment of foes by 
 mashing a single button or haphazardly swinging the Wii Remote around. Some levels are capped by 
 boss fights, which aren't hard, but thanks to the lack of player camera control and the shoddy 
 hit detection, they're plenty annoying.  

  There are still more elements at play. Sometimes Lyra will try to deceive other characters, which 
 requires you to perform a set of minigames. Some of these games function properly, at least, such 
 as one where you push the Nunchuk's analog stick in a whack-a-mole variant. Others are simply terrible 
 and are so poorly explained that you may have no clue how the minigames even work the first few 
 times they appear. There's also the matter of the golden compass itself. Lyra can ask it questions, 
 and the accompanying minigame consists of keeping a reticle centered on the compass with the analog 
 stick while executing (you guessed it!) another timed button-pressing sequence. It certainly doesn't 
 help that developer Shiny wasted a good number of opportunities to use the Wii's motion-sensing 
 capabilities in these games. A few tasks, such as rock throwing and other quick sequences that 
 require aiming, put the remote to brief use. Yet for the most part, minigames are performed using 
 buttons and the analog stick, leaving the platform's unique potential woefully unused.  

           Roughly translated, this means 'don't play this game.'      

  Even the visuals can't 
 capture the fantasy magic of the film or novels. Animations and environments are crude, textures 
 are muddy, and there is absolutely no imagination to be found in the bland art design. There are 
 also some weird graphical bugs, such as blinking polygons and pixelated seams. Additionally, the 
 Wii version suffers from frame-rate slowdown when there is a lot of onscreen activity, and the 
 game pauses from time to time when the machine accesses the disc. Sound fares no better. The musical 
 score is fine, if unmemorable, but most sound effects are either embarrassingly clunky or missing 
 entirely. The voice acting is serviceable, but there are times when the same character will talk 
 over his or her own dialogue.  

  Initially, the wide variety of gameplay elements make it seem like there's going to be a lot to 
 do in The Golden Compass. Unfortunately, most of these facets are too repetitive, too frustrating, 
 or too boring to keep anyone's interest, young or old. So, perhaps unsurprisingly, the game is 
 just the latest in a string of movie tie-ins that sacrifice good gameplay for the sake of a quick 
 buck.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: forthefunofit
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 2:15 pm PT
Review:  This is my take on THe Golden Compass for Wii:
  
  I got this game for friend for Xmas, and while clearly they prob. rushed this a bit on textures/polys, 
 its clear its not as bad as many of you make it out to be and that the target audience ( children/adults 
 that enjoyed the movie /books etc. ) will probably enjoy this quite a bit. Games dont 'need' to 
 have stunning visuals as long as gameplay is at least 'ok', and this game does a fine job of that 
 along with effects that are definitely worthy of mention, and voice acting very nicely done.
  
  http://n-europe. com/review. php? rid=347   
  I have clearly seen some gamespot reviewers be 
 rather harsh on many wii games, and maybe sometimes its deserved but sometimes they are not and 
 thats really a shame they can't be more objective.
  
  I think some forget that games don't necessarily have to contain state of the art graphics to be 
 enjoyed wink Just look at wiisports, its not what you would call 'realistic' graphics, but its 
 done well enough and you dont care about the rest because well, its just a great deal of fun wink
 
  
  The game visually wont compare for example to super mario galaxy etc., ( honestly few do ) but what 
 is here for example are the amazing sound track ( which fits the game in a stunning way ) , the 
 weather effects being done nicely I thought and overall platforming and puzzle fun are I think 
 enough to warrant this especially for fans of the series and books, but I think many gamers would 
 enjoy these overall well done game. I know some have mocked its visuals and overall bad gameplay 
 , but I see the game from a different perspecive in that the visuals are sufficient, the platforming 
 is alot of fun and nicely integrated and the giant bear has very well done animations. It may not 
 be a 'A' title, but it holds its own very well I think.
  
  Older fans may even find pleasure in the title, but need to be simply aware of the games goal to 
 appeal as best they could to a wide variety of the audience spectrum, and they have easily achieved 
 that.
  
  Enjoy the game , movies and books, as they contain a postiive message any parent would be proud 
 their child was intrigued by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fencingbean
Rating: 1.5
Date: May 27, 2008 4:24 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  Any ideas???!
  
  The Bad:
  Button pressing and remote pressing sequences take up pratically the whole game.
  
  Dreadful 
 Value.
  
  Bad camera angels.
  
  Bit babyish.
  
  Very repetitive tasks, usually tricking someone or balancing on a beam.
  
  As Lyra Belaqua 
 you have to save your friend Roger and defeat the Gobblers. People's souls walk along side them. 
 They are called daemons, Lyra is given an Alethiometer which tells the truth. In the game it is 
 called a Golden Compass and seems to float in some liquid when Lyras holding it and the strange 
 music plays in the background. The questions have all got obvious answers and Lyra says the same 
 thing every 5 seconds. You even get to play as an armoured bear about 5% of the time. Even then 
 it is also killing wolves. The combat is badly designed and looks atrocious.
  
  Overall the Golden Compass is a waste of money and a game I can't recommend ot anyone. At least 
 it keeps my little sister busy for five minutes and she only goes to Jordan college so she can 
 hear Lyra screams when Mrs Lonsdale gives her a bath.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TristanH12
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 9, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  The Golden Compass for the Wii, is perhaps an exceptionally great game to own for those who were 
 fans of the movie and the books. Most of what happens in the game has happened in the movie with 
 excruciating detail. Many of the environments and such were extended to allow for the ability to 
 explore somewhat and talk to more characters and such. 
  
  One of the striking and most surprising facts for me is the fact that most of the voice acting 
 in the game, and I must say that there is tons, seems to come from the same actors who were in 
 the movie. In fact I seem to have begun to fall in love with their accents and such. They are all 
 the same as they were in the movies. Lyra as tough, Pan as cautious, the scholors, Lord Asriel, 
 and such.
  
  The game launches itself off by incorporating the use of the same scenes from the movie, all of 
 it is in a way DVD format presentation style it seems. Luckily I had seen the movie before playing 
 the game extensively and all the cutscenes are the exact same scenes from the movie. So this is 
 perhaps one of the most good aspects of the game.
  
  One of the most critical things that I have with the game is the fact that it seems to be graphically 
 outdated. Sure there are some points in which the environments and characters look good, but more 
 often than not, there are tons of ugly polygonal characters and edges, and maybe even bland textures. 
 Apart from the aesthetics everything else seems quite favorable.
  
  The game is played in a series of ways. First most everything can be controlled with the motion 
 controls wherever appropriate (such as balancing Lyra on objects, moving to dodge enemies, aim 
 to throwing food and books and rocks, swinging Iorek's claws, and whipping Pan) . But generally, 
 if one chooses, they can ignore virtually most of the controls (aiming is usually done by pointing 
 at the screen) . Ah there are also tons of minigames, I believe they are referred to as Evasion 
 and Deception minigames. These are used to either avoid enemies or to gather valuable information. 
 They are presented in a ton of places to get so much. IN a series of 1 to maybe 6 minigames the 
 player has to keep playing these minigames using the A and analog stick to manage to get their 
 confidence i n the green or yellow. If they are successful (most of the minigames are quite simple 
 though some are difficult such as aiming the cursor to grab a ball or dodging attackts) , then they 
 will be able to proceed to learn more information or gain symbols from the Alethiometer. 
  
  There is combat in the game, surprise, shock, and flare but all in all this game is not too 
 difficult, fun, and perhaps great for those who enjoy the series. I would suggest that those who 
 arent too keen on games of these type perhaps not land on this one. Unless, like me, you have a 
 fetish for having nearly every ounce of dialog be voiced over by characters, and dont mind having 
 a game that once you beat it, you probably wont ever play it again. 
  
  Remember, the only downside are ugly graphics, but the cutscenes that come straight from the movie 
 are totally worth it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
