-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Godfather: Blackhand Edition
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/thegodfather/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The game makes great use of the film license.
 plenty of challenging, multitiered missions to keep you busy.
 fun combat and interrogation system.
 you can explore an expansive map of 1940s new york, with no load times.
 wii controls work well most of the time.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Graphics leave a bit to be desired.
 Controls are occasionally unresponsive.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 20, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.8, 43 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 1,125 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Redwood Shores
Genre: Historic Action Adventure
Date: Mar 20, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Godfather: Blackhand Edition works in a smattering of new content and a brand-new control scheme 
 with good results. 

   The Godfather  is widely regarded as one of the greatest films of all time. So when Electronic 
 Arts announced that it was making a game based on the license, though it made sense as a business 
 venture, it also seemed like a risky move to adapt such a beloved and well-known story to a video 
 game. That risk paid off with the PlayStation 2, PC, Xbox, and Xbox 360 versions of the game, and 
 now it's the Wii's turn. There are several minor but noticeable enhancements and gameplay tweaks 
 in the Wii version of the game, but, for the most part, this is the same game that was released 
 a year earlier on other platforms. That said, The Godfather: Blackhand Edition is still a satisfying, 
 lengthy action adventure game, and more importantly, it remains faithful to the classic film while 
 also creating a compelling story of its own.  

          Intimidating sniveling shop owners is as fun as ever in Blackhand Edition.     

  As 
 you might expect from a Wii game, The Godfather: Blackhand Edition incorporates some unique control 
 features. You play the game with both the Wii Remote and the Nunchuk, where you interact with objects 
 using the remote and move around with the Nunchuk's analog stick. You can point your gun, throw 
 punches, open doors, reload weapons, and execute enemies using this control scheme. It works well, 
 and it's fun to beat up mobsters and toss them through windows by actually performing the respective 
 gestures. It does get old, though, and at times the movements don't seem to register properly unless 
 you use exaggerated gestures. Using this control scheme you also have to adjust the camera using 
 the directional pad, which makes it difficult and cumbersome to get a good view of your surroundings, 
 especially in indoor areas. In addition to the new controls, the Wii version of the game contains 
 a good helping of new missions, as well as new and redesigned locations. The added content is a 
 nice bonus, but most of it is in no way integral to the rest of the game.  

  The game puts you in the role of a peripheral character that didn't appear in the film, but nevertheless 
 played a critical role in the story. While the character is by no means an official write-in from 
 Mario Puzo or Francis Ford Coppola, he meshes well with the rest of the story, a large part of 
 which is taken directly from the film. You begin the game by watching your father get gunned down 
 in the streets by rival mobsters. Flash forward a few years to the wedding scene from the opening 
 of the film, and your mother is asking the Don to take you under his wing and offer you work, so 
 the Don sends the imposing Luca Brasi to look after you and teach you how to be a mobster.  

  You start off as an unofficial enforcer for the Corleone family, which means your job is to muscle 
 merchants into paying you protection money. You do this by simply walking into a store and talking 
 to the owner. Usually the owners won't simply give in, but you can intimidate them by smashing 
 up their stores (or their faces) until they start to see things your way. Sometimes the business 
 owners will ask you to do a favor for them in exchange for a cut of the business. You might have 
 to off a drug dealer who is scaring customers away from a bakery, or take out a troublemaker who 
 refuses to leave a hotel. These favor missions bring some welcome variety to the extortion game, 
 but they're so simple and easy that they'll hardly have any effect on the way you play the game. 
 Once you take over a business, you get a payout each week, and there are dozens of shops you can 
 shake down all throughout the five boroughs of New York. Some stores are fronts for illegal rackets, 
 such as brothels, gambling dens, and illegitimate importing operations, and you can buy out these 
 rackets to further increase your weekly income.  

          Eventually you'll become a made man, but the game doesn't end there.     

  Extorting 
 businesses and taking over rackets isn't all there is to do, though. There are plenty of story 
 missions that you'll pick up as you play. Some missions are taken directly from the movie. Most 
 of these scenes are very faithfully re-created for the game, and it's great to be able to take 
 part in some of the most memorable moments from the film, such as Sonny's ambush at the toll plaza 
 and the assassinations of the Dons intercut with scenes from the baptism of Michael Corleone's 
 niece. In fact, the best part of The Godfather is that it handles the source material respectfully 
 and offers enough new content to feel like more than just a by-the-numbers adaptation of the movie. 

  In addition to the characters, the city of New York has been rendered in detail, and you can spot 
 specific scenes from the film as you travel the streets of Little Italy, Brooklyn, Midtown, Hell's 
 Kitchen, and New Jersey. For the Wii and PlayStation 3 versions of the game, the map was reworked 
 to make getting around town much easier. You still need to use the map quite often, but you'll 
 run into fewer dead-end streets this time around. There are a lot of indoor areas in the game as 
 well, which you can freely enter without any load times. The Wii version features improved interiors 
 that are more varied than in previous versions of the game. So while you'll still see the same 
 bakery or hotel lobby throughout the city, you'll also see some unique interiors that will help 
 alleviate that sense of dj vu.     

  The Godfather borrows heavily from the Grand Theft Auto series of games, so you can expect the 
 same senseless violence and absurd mayhem those games are known for. You can steal cars, run down 
 pedestrians, shoot people at random, and evade the police. As you commit crimes, your heat gauge 
 increases, and anywhere from one to five badge icons will appear on the screen to indicate how 
 badly the cops want to take you down. If you're caught, you're simply killed, which isn't such 
 a big deal because you can be revived at the nearest hospital for a small fee. It's easy to avoid 
 the police, and you can bribe them if you don't feel up for a chase. In fact, in the Wii version 
 of the game you can pay the police to actually fight alongside you.  

          Thanks to the unique Wii controls, you can now experience the thrill of beating a man senseless 
 with a tire iron!     

  Some missions are quite difficult, usually because you have to face dozens of mobsters all by yourself. 
 However, you can recruit lower-ranking mobsters to be part of your crew. These men will follow 
 you around and provide backup in gunfights or act as triggermen while you drive. As you ascend 
 in rank within the Corleone family, you'll be able to recruit better and better men to fill out 
 your crew. New to the Wii and PlayStation 3 versions of the game is the hit squad. Once you become 
 an associate, you can call in a hit squad of four guys to follow you around and lend some muscle 
 to your cause. The hit squad can get expensive, but you'll usually have cash to burn, so cost rarely 
 becomes an issue here. The artificial intelligence of your allies is relatively good, and you'll 
 definitely notice a difference having a crew around. It still doesn't take much to get your crew -- or 
 yourself -- killed. You can find health tonics from time to time, but you'll need to take cover and 
 plan your attack wisely if you want to live.  

  The gunplay in The Godfather is simple but fun. You can lock on to enemies with the press of a 
 button, and you can duck or back up against a wall for cover. If you want, you can switch to free 
 aim mode, which lets you aim by pointing the Wii Remote at the screen and using the B button to 
 fire. This works fairly well, but the remote is so sensitive that it makes precision aiming a bit 
 difficult. It's much easier to just lock on to a target and shoot. The guns in the game range from 
 a .38 special revolver to a tommy gun to a snub-nosed shotgun. There's also a variety of other 
 weapons, including Molotov cocktails, sticks of dynamite, garrote wires, and lead pipes. All of 
 the guns can be upgraded at back-alley arms dealers. You can carry all of these weapons at the 
 same time, too, effectively turning you into a one-mobster army. There are more than 40 scripted 
 execution moves as well, and you're rewarded for your brutality in the form of respect. When you 
 approach a weakened enemy, you can hold the A button to display an illustration that shows you 
 how to perform an execution. There are quite a few different gestures to match the wide variety 
 of execution moves, and the corresponding animations are usually brutal and satisfying to watch. 

  If you prefer to get your hands dirty, you can simply beat the life out of anyone you encounter. 
 You lock on with the Z button, and then while holding the Nunchuk and Wii Remote in your hands, 
 you can throw punches, slam opponents into walls, or even toss them off rooftops. You can also 
 strangle your enemies by holding the remote and Nunchuk close together and shaking them violently. 

  As you indiscriminately waste people, extort businesses, and complete missions, you'll earn respect 
 points. When you earn enough respect, you level up so to speak, and you can distribute skill points 
 to learn new abilities and improve your stats. The character development system has been completely 
 redone for this version of the game, and it allows for much more flexibility in how you strengthen 
 your character. As you level up your character in various parameters you earn bonuses and you can 
 also unlock new skills. You can learn useful tricks like how to set a car bomb, or you can just 
 increase your health or make it cheaper to bribe police. These bonuses, along with the upgraded 
 weapons, help tremendously later in the game as the missions become more difficult.  

          Some of the side missions are a bit silly, like this one in which you have to duke it out 
 with a prize fighter in a hotel room.     

  The Wii version of The Godfather doesn't look especially impressive in standard definition or at 
 480p. There are some nice fire and explosion effects, and the city of New York looks and feels 
 alive with activity, but you'll see a lot of blurry surfaces, jerky animations, and clipping. When 
 driving around town, you'll also notice textures, and even entire city blocks, pop into view a 
 bit late, which looks awkward. The frame rate keeps pace fairly well and never drops to critical 
 levels. Overall, the game isn't a complete eyesore, but it's not the best looking Wii game, either. 
 It works mostly because of the way it authentically re-creates the look and feel of the film, but 
 there are very few technically impressive moments in the game.  

  With the sheer number of businesses to extort and missions to complete, you can easily spend 20 
 hours working your way up through the ranks and eliminating other families before finally becoming 
 the Don of New York City. If you're a fan of the film, you'll appreciate the way the game pays 
 tribute to the movie. Even if you've never seen the film, the satisfying combat and challenging 
 missions make this game worth playing. However, if you've already played other versions of The 
 Godfather, there's no compelling reason to once again spend full price for what is essentially 
 the exact same game. The Wii controls and added content are nice, but those alone aren't enough 
 to make this game worth yet another look. But if you haven't played the game before, and you're 
 looking for an action adventure game for the Wii, The Godfather: Blackhand Edition certainly fits 
 the bill.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (118 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: webhead921
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 4:27 am PT
Review:  One of the games that I'm playing is Godfather: Blackhand Edition for Wii.
  
  This game is a lot of fun. If you like sandbox games and if you are a fan of the movies then I 
 would recommend it. I'll write a review once I finish the game. I was really surprised with this 
 game. I expected a poor GTA clone (i. e. True Crime) , but I found a solid game. This game has a 
 lot of what you would expect from a GTA knockoff (free roaming a large city, stealing cars, missions, 
 etc.) , yet it has enough unique features and its own feel. In this game are a lot of the major 
 events from the Godfather films. If you are a big fan of the films, you will probably enjoy this 
 game.
  
  This game has an emphasis on mob warfare. I like the gang warfare/turf mechanic better than the 
 mechanic in san andreas. In GTA San Anreas, you basically gain turf by killing waves of gang members. 
 In this game, you begin by extorting shop owners. You can assault them, break items in their stores, 
 threaten them, hurt their customers, etc in order to get them to pay you protection money. You 
 then get access to mob run rackets which you can takeover by killing rival gang members, then buying 
 out the racket. It is fun to find different ways to extort shop owners, and is more rewarding than 
 just killing gang members.
  
  The missions are fairly repetitive. It's usually, drive so and so from point A to B, protect so 
 and so, kill so and so, etc. This is to be expected from a lot of GTA style games. The missions 
 aren't as diverse as GTA vice city or San Andreas, but are still fun. This game also lacks the 
 replay value of GTA. There aren't any extras like taxi/ambulance missions etc. to perform. I haven't 
 beaten the game yet, but it seems like the type of game that I won't play much after I finish the 
 main set of missions. 
  
  I am generally a fan of GTA and GTA style games. This game is definitely not as good as the GTA 
 games, but is a decent substitute for those who only own a wii. If you are a fan of GTA or a fan 
 of the movies, I would check this game out. It will keep you entertained for a while, and is worth 
 purchasing if you own a wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sportsmen2008
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2009 10:04 pm PT
Review:  This was my 3rd Wii game, and it had to follow Madden, and RE4, so I was expecting to be let down. 
 I was also expecting this game to be average at best because games from movies always are disappointing. 
 
  
  Well I was totally wrong. Ok lets get the only reason to dock this game out of the way, the graphics 
 are not so great. Yep that is it. 
  
  The game plays exactly like the movie and it does so perfectly! Its really a treat that it works 
 so well for the game. You are new to the mob and have to work your way up doing tasks for the family. 
 This game does a great job of combining your main tasks with an open GTA like city where you can 
 find ways to make even more money. (No more heroes take note this is the way the open area should 
 be!) This game has such a rich, deep story, with lots of plot twists an turns it will keep you 
 busy for hundreds of hours. 
  
  The controls are some of the best I have seen! I wish other games (Bully, Prince of Persia, yeah 
 I am looking at you guys) worked this well. Every moment makes total sense, and is always so smooth. 
 Nothing is too complicated, and it makes shooting, running, beating a guy, or throwing someone 
 off a roof simple. 
  
  The music is the same from the movie and sets a perfect tone. The voice acting makes you think 
 your watching the movie, which is just too perfect. 
  
  $50 this game is a steal! For the $10 your going to pay for it its the deal of the year, just get 
 it and enjoy.
  
  PLEASE update this game with Godfather 2. Make the graphics better, and a little more variety in 
 the shops. Keep it true to the 2nd movie, keep the great controls, keep the deep story line, great 
 voice acting, and everything else. Here is my $50 now thank you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tengu-Ninja
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 11, 2009 9:32 am PT
Review:  Godfather: Blackhand Edition for the Wii is a game I found for 30 bucks and took a chance with 
 buying. I am glad I did because this game is a worthy edition to the Wii's game lineup. Not only 
 do you get basically the same game as the Xbox 360 (besides graphics but let that go fanboys for 
 a sec) , but you also get motion controlled interrogations and hassling of shopkeepers and people 
 messing with your family. That is something that never gets old well to me at least. The graphics 
 hold up well on the Wii even with the pop in buildings and surroundings. Character models are well 
 done enough and the voice acting is very good for the characters. It even gives you the "design 
 your own character" feature for some added value and if you are like me you go out of your way 
 to make the most ridiculous looking character. The music score is basically The Godfather soundtrack 
 so you have some good tunes as well. The game is pretty cheap now so I'd recommend picking it up. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supermariobro9
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 11:45 am PT
Review:  Godfather gives you a Grand Theft Auto like feel, but in the 50's. The game has a very good storyline 
 that will leave you wondering whats going to happen next. You get to have a lot of different weapons. 
 You get to steal cars kill people and take control of buisnesses just like in the Mafia. You can 
 bomb different warehouses and other Mafia hangouts. You play as a guy who's dad died in a shooting 
 a couple years back when he was a kid and now it's time to take his revenge. You get to customize 
 your guy give him clothes, new looks, hairstyles, and more. You can also buy safe houses where you 
 live. You can buy weapons at the black markets located around New York. The controls work very 
 nicely as well. This is a very good game and I would highly recommend it. You should pick this 
 game up if your older. but I would not recommend it for young children. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrpmp777
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  Well If You Like Grand theft auto, you will like this too. I give this game a ten for many reasons, first 
 of its exactly like grand theft auto. Almost everything that gta has the godfather has. You can buy 
 houses, take over the other families, make your own crew, do missions for the don, take over compounds 
 from the other families, take over businesses, steal cars. SO MUCH TO DO IN THIS GAME. It Truly Is 
 one of the best games for wii. I cant wait till the godfather 2 gets out, that might be another great 
 game. this game is definatly worth thirty dollars. I just got it for christmas and i cant stop playing 
 it. its very addictive. This Game is great and should be better than the gamespot score. i think this 
 is one great game. i had it for ps2 a long time ago and it was amazing. now its for wii and its great, just 
 amazing. It couldnt get no better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warrior427
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 17, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  suprisingly very good I wasnt really expecting much but I really got my money out of this game 
 pretty unique at first I thought it was going to get reppetitive and the whol gta clone thing set 
 in but after I played it this game really stood out to me and was diffrent it actually made me 
 feel like I was part of the mob you can rise through the ranks in the family organize hits and 
 this game does a really good job of utilizing the wii remote and all the motion sensitivity and 
 this wii edition of the god father fallows the movie well while adding extra things one good mission 
 would be when you actually get to sneak into that guys house and put the horse head in his bed 
 or and the game puts in so much content like the option to by clothing or to unlock executions 
 another part of the game that is pretty cool is the leveling system you can actually upgrade the 
 main character as you go and ive never seen that in a sandbox game except for gta san andraes the 
 only thing I can point out is the game is lacking in the graphics department a little 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aequitas31
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  The godfather blackhand edition is easily the best game for the wii. It perfectly utilizes the 
 wii motion sensing controllers, and uses them to make the fist fighting, gunplay, and finishing 
 moves amazingly fun everytime u play the game. The original story puts you in a great position 
 in the world of the godfather and will keep you playing the game for at least 25 hours before you 
 beat it. The blackhand control system lets you choose between force or finesse in order to get 
 what you need in the game, and the free roam environment lets you take the hits and missions whenever 
 you want. If your not ready or need more money for guns you can rob banks or extort businesses. 
 Starting gang wars and bombing a rival families business is always fun too. But this is definately 
 a game for you if you have a wii and are looking for a game thats not designed for little kids, 
 and the wii needs more games like this. Cant wait for the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomiPetteri
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  I didn't have much expectations about this game, so it was pretty shocking to see how friggin' 
 good it was and you couldn't take your hands from it for days.
  
  The game is so much fun and it has so much good elements. The atmosphere, cruising around 1940s 
 New York, killer storyline, it's got lot to collect, and lots to do, and it stays challenging enough 
 not to get you bored.
  
  Most fun you'll probably have is when you're taking down the compounds or taking a hit contract. 
 What could be more fun than throwing a bad guy into the bakery oven? Nothing.
  
  For a perfectionist freak like me it's perfect. You need to find sh*tload of film reels, find millions 
 of ways to execute people, bomb safes and own all the rackets. That + the missions that keep the 
 story going + hit contracts + favors = lots and lots of enjoyable play time and what's needed to 
 get the game 100% done.
  
  The only bad thing to say about this game is the fact that the shooting controls are sometimes 
 unresponsive. But you'll shoot that knee eventually. Navigating through a bigger warehouse is also 
 sometimes confusing, but it's a minor flaw and probably just a flaw in me.
  
  Long story short: you must experience this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bornabuckeye
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 28, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  Pros: Gives you a fun sandbox mode.
  Sets the standard and a precedent on how a GTA game could work
  Has a great story 
  Motion 
 controls work absolutely beautifully
  Graphics are good
  Driving is great and adds lots of fun
  
  Cons: Kinda gets repetitive
  Game came out years 
 ago so this game hasnt had good marketing
  
  Godfather the BHE for the wii is a top ten game on the wii. I say its an absolutely amazing game. 
 The story is great and atmosphere and environment is unparralleled on the wii.
  
  The motion controls work beautifully and its a real treat to use hand combat.
  Driving cars is 
 a great expirience as well, to those that have played the driver games.. yeah your going to love 
 this one. It takes the same premise as driver, but makes it work and fun to do.
  
  The only problem with the game itself is after awhile it does get repetitve. But most sandbox games 
 do. Plus, unlike GTA, you really dont have anything to do outside the missions other than beat 
 up and extort stores. The main problem with this game is that its old, and other systems have had 
 this game already so there was no publicity with this game. But like RE4, good things to those 
 that wait.
  
  If your upset because everyone has GTA and as a wii owner you dont, go get this game because its 
 a great game and you will get your fix. Not to mention this game is so worth the value. Because 
 its an old port and wasnt really hyped, you can grab a copy of this game used for about 15 dollars. 
 Well worth it as i would pay 50 easy for it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: K_u_F
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  From the first time you bust a cap into a rival gangsters head using the great Wii controls you 
 will be drawn in, not just by the immersive storyline and its missions, but also by the great controls, 
 tons of hidden collectables, vast free-roaming city and always fun side missions such as extorting 
 and hit contracts.
  The games soundtrack is a non-offensive simple one of classical music with a mafia theme, and some 
 taken straight from the film itself, the voice acting is superb and all guns make a satisfying 
 noise when fired.
  The graphics are probably the games weakest point, though they are still pretty impressive, objects 
 blow up in a eruption of flames, blood spils, cars show their damage and the character models look 
 decent enough, although its clear extra effort has been put into the main characters looks.
  Talking of characters, yours can be customised from his hair to his scars to his clothes, and can 
 be upgraded as you go through the game, adding even more depth to the game.
  So with countless fun things to do, The Godfather is a very enjoyable game, enhanced greatly by 
 he brilliant Wii exclusive controls.
  Give it a look, and you wont b dissappointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doughboy93
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 25, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  
  
  If you're like me, you enjoy games like New Super mario bros or Super Mario Strikers and Battalion 
 Wars 2. Even the Super monkey ball series. After awhile however, you have a craving for senseless 
 violence. Throughout the story and even after beating the game, you get your fair share of maybe 
 400-700k murders. Whether it be cops, Straccis, Cunios, drug dealers, or even civilians, you're 
 GOING to have fun. 
  
  For those of who don't know about the godfather, this game is based off of one of the best movies 
 of all time The Godfather. It takes place in 1940s-1950s NYC and is about the struggle of one family, 
 and the other mafia families in their business.
  
  Now just like the movie, it makes the life of a mobster seem appealing. Keep in mind that in Godfather 
 3, it all comes back to bite Michael Corleone in the butt. Stay in school and remember this is 
 just a game!
  *****SEMI-SPOILERS******** 
  
  In GF: BE, you follow the path of an enforcer of the Corleone family. It sticks to the movie fairly 
 well, and even expands beyond that. As you progress through the game, you make the decisions that 
 will shape your character into what he'll become. You play through 20 missions, however there are 
 plenty of side missions. You can carry out hits, drive a truck to a blackmarket stop, lead your 
 men into taking over a warehouse, and much more.
  As you complete more and more missions, your rank in the family contiues to rise. As your rank 
 rises your perks rise too. You get paid more money, and you're allowed to hire stronger men with 
 better guns. At one point you're given the ability to whistle and have 5 armed men in black (Corleones) 
 come out of nowhere and follow you no matter the destination.
  *******SEMI-SPOILERS OVER*******
  Unfortunately, while driving only 1 man you hire at the compound 
 will go in the car with you. However, you'll find a GTA feel to this game. It's got the same violence 
 and driving over pedestrians. In some ways more graphic than others. No nudity though, which is 
 good for little kids that get this game.
  
  THE MOTION!!!!
  
  There's different ways you can kill people. These all depend on motion which is a nice touch. Fist 
 fighting is controlled by your own hands. You can strangle some1, snap their neck, beat them silly 
 with a baseball bat (or other miscellaneous melee weapons) .
  
  You also aim guns through motion, but be rest assured there is a targeting system.
  
  There's 
 only a few minor glitches which, IMO, don't ruin the game. I've flown my car once across New York 
 City, which killed me eventually, but was crazy insane!!!
  
  The AI are fairly smart. Occasionally though, if you take cover behind some wall, they'll take 
 cover too behind some garbage can and just shoot at your wall and not even think that you could 
 be running away out of there view. (I've done this several times to avoid the cops) . 
  
  Overall, I believe this game will have you coming back for more. It has a high replay value, the 
 graphics are great for the Wii, the gameplay is fun, and of course the story is great because it's 
 based off of one of the greatest movies of all time! You really feel you're the Don of NYC. I think 
 most audiences would really enjoy this game. There is a lot of language though and I wouldn't recommend 
 this for anyone under the age of 13. (The rating M isn't really earned IMO, more like a T to me)
 
  
  P. S: This was my first review, let me know how I did   
::::::

::::::
UserName: AweWiiGamer1
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 15, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  The Godfather- arguably, the best film ever made to date, to be considered by me and by many other 
 moviegoers. The Godfather would be just perfect as a game, and The Godfather has had many games 
 based on the film. Most of them try hard, but never truly take off- The Godfather game on the PlayStation 
 2 being an exception. Well, The Godfather: Blackhand Edition is the same PS2 game at it's core, 
 but it's simply sublime control scheme for the Wii truly makes this games shine from all the other 
 movie tie in games out there, and The Godfather Blackhand Edition truly does justice to a truly 
 fantastic film.
  
  The controls for The Godfather: Blackhand Edition are as grand as gold. You can aim at your enemies 
 by just pointing at them with the Wii Remote, and then by pressing Z on the Nunchuck to shoot at 
 them. Aiming with the Wii Remote with your gun allows much more damage than you do in the normal 
 game, and you swing the Nunchuck and the Wii Remote to clob a baseball bat at your enemy, or to 
 throw a molotov cocktail at them. These controls are bueatifully handled in Blackhand Edition, 
 and wheras controls in most movie tie in games get in the way, the controls with Blackhand Edition 
 are easy and responsive to use.
  
  The Godfather: Blackhand Edition is a game with many fun tasks to complete in the game, and is 
 one of those rare titles that will never leave you wondering what to do next. There is 20 more 
 new hit missions then there are in the orginial game, and 50 more main missions to do than the 
 previous game. Not only is there lots to do by numbers in this game, but also these are missions 
 are fun to complete, and will leave you coming back for more.
  
  Overall, The Godfather: Blackhand Edition is the best port of The Godfather game to ever have been 
 released, and this is one movie tie-in that certainly does not sleep with the fishes- line from 
 the classic film itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -shmelo-
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 4, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather is simply one of the greatest film trilogies/series/films period of all time. So 
 after a decade, Paramount needed some more money from the title, and decided to make this game.
 
  
  Its a basic GTA clone, with more intuitive combat. Its fun to beat people up and shoot, but some 
 stuff just doesn't work. If you shoot someone in the leg, they fall down, but they get back up 
 after a bit. I doubt anyone can do that, and it just seems off. The blood effects are terrible, 
 unless its a cut scene. 
  
  Although, the graphics period are terrible. Some character models look like their respected selves 
 whilst others don't. Michael Corleone for example, the main character, looks nothing like himself 
 in the game.
  
  What is cool is the implementation of your gangster in the game, where all those gaps of violence 
 were in the movie, you fill em in. Although the ability to eventually become Don is ridiculously 
 inaccurate.
  
  Driving is fun, although the city looks like crap. If anything this looks like a very good Nintendo 
 64 game.
  
  Some motion controls don't work, but aiming is good.
  
  Overall, one of the better games for Wii since its all about casual crap now. Rent this though 
 if your a fan, try to save your pennies for GTAIV if you can get it... I can't... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stankmuffin
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  The game is pretty short but they have a lot of side missions to keep you from completing the game 
 right away. The graphics, too, are somewhat subpar but the gameplay totally makes up for that. 
 LIke GameSpot's review: the controls do seem to stick sometimes, buts its so rare you even realize 
 it happened until you have been playing awhile. Another thing, the driving mechanics on the game 
 is real amazing. Driving a car comes with ease and feels so natural. There is also a variety of 
 cars to choose/steal! Another awesome thing was that you can bribe the police... and they can fight 
 on your side against other mob families when they are on the *take*. Thats mob talk for giving 
 them money! The 1940's setting/environment is awesome as well as the dialogue. Also, there is a 
 wide array of weapons, no loading b/w towns/cities & its a great game from a movie. (Not like ahem, 
 Fantastic Four or anything..) Awesome... definitely get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1313deadmandrve
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  After spending a good 15ish hrs. working at it, The Godfather gets a tiny bit repetive. I bribed 
 at least 200 cops, took over at least 25 busnesses, and i'm only at the part when Mike (watch the 
 movie, you'll understand) killed the two guys. That's mabye 3/5 of the way through, plus, I have 
 more busnesses to get, Plus, I have more missions (Story) to do, PLUS, I have hits to do, and favors 
 to give. In a nutshell this game is long.
  
  Gameplay: The game follows the story very nicly without straying from the origanal plot. The Godfather 
 is the attempt of a hit, Mike kills the guy, he goes away, comes back, and becomes Don. In the 
 sequl (Ihope they make one) He moves it to Las Vegas (His orginization) and blah blah blah. Most 
 of the game consits of geting behind cover, wether crouching or leaning against a all (Think Gears 
 or war style,) and then aiming and shooting the people in the head. Or you go hand to hand with 
 them. In the game you either
  A.) Follow the story performing your tasks
  B.) Perform hits (assasinations) for $ or respect
  C.) Take over busnesses across a giant New York 
 City.
  These all are very good, but you will rqure breaks for bordem repetivness, but once you play again, 
 it remains fun.
  
  Controls: Interesting. The butons are mapped nicely, and swing the Wii remote or nunchuk to punch 
 someone in the face is awsome, but sometimes slow to respond, or your trying to jab someone, when 
 the game thinks you punched them (more damage, could kill someone you want alive) . Some things 
 are just incredibale though. Like with choking wire, you sneak up behind someone and hold Z and 
 B. Then you swing the Wii remote an nunchuck from side to side like your choking him. Amazing. 
 You'll get a kick out of these controls.
  
  Graphics/sound: The graphics are avrage. Nothing to special. The sound is amazing. From the noise 
 your car makes when you crash into a building, to Magmum bullets flying past your ears, to the 
 lovly orcistra directing the theme sopng (I lov the theme music) the sound should have you satisfied.
 
  
  Conclusion: Think: Grand Theft Auto in the 40's with a better storyline and music. Also think: 
 Fun controls. If any of that sounds good, borrow it or rent it, and you won't regret it. If your 
 a GTA fan and want another street crime game, get this. If you liked the move, get the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario2BM5
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Godfather is back... again but not to worry cause its better than ever but with a few problems. 
 Youre this man who wants to join the godfather family but in order to join you have to certain 
 tasks to gain the families trust and respect. Now really, it wasnt nessecary for me to explain 
 the story of he Godfather knowing that everyone has seen the movie but then again you really never 
 get tired of it, Sure it just might sound plain and simple in this review but have my word this 
 game has an amzing story with a lot of twists and turns. As you all know this is a port from the 
 PS2 and the graphics havnt changed one bit. It might sound likeno big deal and then you see the 
 graphics of the game and youre like what the crap! The graphics are decent dont get me wrong but 
 you be thinking in youre head saying this next generation gaming and this is unacceptable to have 
 graphics stay the same from the PS2, I blame EA. You ba$tards. Another thing is that when youre 
 driving you can constantly see buildings popping out of no where. The gamrplay is addicting and 
 fun! You can punch, grab, and do other violent moves just with the Wii mote and Nunchuck. All of 
 this works extremely well and I had no problem with it what so ever. The shooting is great and 
 works pretty well too. One thing though is the driving where you accelerate by pressing the A button 
 and reverse with the B button. To drive you have to move the analog stick in the direction you 
 want to go in. Now thats not really a problem but when you put it on the Wii people expect more 
 depth in the driving parts. Though it mightve turned out to suck so it mightve been a good idea 
 to just leave to driving with the analog stick. The Godfather has been always known for its amazing 
 voice acting and nice music. In the game it fits perfectly and shows how voice acting should be 
 done in the game. There are some cut from the movie and put in the game which makes it even better! 
 The music is also cut from some parts of the movie to but then there are some parts where the music 
 dosent fit in. Im done talking about this game and I would say its at least worth a rent if you 
 already have the PS2 version but its definately worth a buy if you never played any of the Godfather 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackjack54
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  The game is a fun and addictive but "short". It took me two days to beat it. I am still playing 
 just for fun in the free roaming 1940's New York. It is verry intense and immursive. Though there 
 are only about 5 cars it is fun blowing them up!!! People die to easy and there are no though bosses. 
 You can upgraid your guns, if you have $400,000 ( hard to get) . You can bribe the police and FBI 
 and get your heat off. You can say it is the Grand Theft Auto of the 1940's. Cool custimization 
 of charater. The grafics are rugged so it tires your eyes. When you get "iced" make shure you kill 
 the docter and the nurse because they get anoying. Being the don of New York Makes you a Mac so 
 you have $100,000,000. Dont forget to save the game at the safe house. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SARS-XP
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  If you have a WII, you should try this game. It's certainly better than Grand Theft Auto experience 
 I had on other game consoles. There are certainly some bugs to be fixed. For example, I started 
 a mob war with a family which had been taken out already or I can always start a mob war with a 
 family without a compound. It would be quite frustrating, because you would have to drive through 
 gang fires to bribe a FBI agent to settle the war. There should be a nicer way to deal with this. 
 Another thing is that you cannot skip the movies if you accidentally selected the New Game menu. 
 It's a long movie. However, it's still a great game. I wish WII could offer better 3D display.
 
  
  I expect for the next version, I would have choice of joining other families and do different series 
 of jobs. 
  
  By the way, the game is definitely not for children. It's a very violent game. Especially, when 
 you do those execute styles, it's appropriate for kids to see it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metallica_Dan
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Imagine you had a bad day at work or school. Someone really made you angry and you want to blow 
 a little steam. You load up the Godfather game for the Wii, create your character, enter old New 
 York, steal a car and start driving around. You stop at a shop owned by a rival mob family. You 
 enter and the owner is giving you some lip when you offer him some protection... For a fee.
  
  Using the Wii remote and nunchuck, you thrust your hands forward and grab the guy. Bringing 
 your hands together makes you strangle the owner. You do that for a bit and then pull your hand 
 back and punch the air. Your on screen character does the same. Finally, you push your hands apart 
 and release the buttons to throw him right out of the window.
  
  And we haven't even started with the story yet. 
  
  The Godfather game basically takes you 
 behind the scenes of the first movie. You rise up the ranks to become the Don of New York. The 
 immersion is good and there are no load times between 'areas' (which is huge) . The game isn't the 
 best looking but it's not that bad. There are tons of different things to do, between racketeering, 
 robbing a bank, breaking up drug rings, taking over warehouses... It has a solid story and great 
 game play.
  
  One of the only complaints would be that it can get repetitive, especially if you want to take 
 over all of New York.
  
  This is a great game to pick up and play 30 minutes and then put it down and go do something else, 
 or spend a whole afternoon extorting, stealing, killing and ultimately regaining respect for the 
 Corleon family. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMario_46
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 6:43 am PT
Review:  The Good: Great gameplay  Superb voice acting and soundtrack  Plenty of mission variety  Huge 
 city to explore, without loading times  stays true to the spirit of the film 
 
  
  The Bad: Outdated graphics  Manual aim is not very good  No Al Pacino
  
  
  
  Based on the 1972 classic film 
 "The Godfather", EA brings The Godfather: Blackhand edition to the Wii with surprisingly good results 
 that stay true to the spirit of the film. 
  
  The story is basically the same as the film, but there are new parts for it specifically designed 
 for your character but it doesn't change the core story too much and it stays true to the film 
 and book. You'll play as your created character, who didn't appear on the movie but played a key 
 role in the story. Your father was killed by Barzini when you were a kid and now your mother wants 
 you to work with Don Vito Corleone, he sends you with Luca Brassi and you start as an enforcer 
 for the family, but by the end of the game you'll be the Don of 1940's New York City. It's a shame 
 though that one important part of the story (Michael's exile in Sicily) is nowhere to be found 
 in this game.
  
  Needless to say, you'll use both the Wiimote and Nunchuck combo to play this game. Throw punches 
 by swinging the remote forward (like in Wii Sport's Boxing) , move with the analog stick, get your 
 gun out with C, lock on with Z, fire your weapon with B, run by holding A plus you can use this 
 button to interact with the different objects and move the camera with the D pad. The controls 
 work great with this game, also you'll get to do different executions by doing a specific gesture 
 and many of them are very, very cool to watch (throw him out of a window, break his neck or shoot 
 him to death) . 
  
  Some of the early objectives include taking over business for the family, however, dont think the 
 owner will give you his business just like that, you'll have to intimidate them; which means punching 
 their faces until they give you what you want, if done right he (or she) will pay you weekly. It's 
 really fun to take over business, though it gets old after sometime. But don't you dare to think 
 that's all you'll do in the game, there are a lot, and i mean a lot of mission variety to be found: 
 you kill drugdealers, destroy enemy compounds, scort the members of the family to safety, do favors 
 and kill enemy mob leaders. It's really fun because there's a lot of variety in there plus you'll 
 get to recreate some of the most memorable scenes from the movie such as the baptism and Sonny's 
 ambush scenes and it does a great job at that. 
  
  The New York city is massive and you're going to have some really great times exploring it during 
 your time with this game. During your playtime you'll visit Little Italy, Brooklyn, New Jersey, 
 Midtown and Hell's Kitchen; each belongs to a family (Corleone, Tattaglia, Cuneo, Barzini and Stracci) . 
 The city is very detailed and it's just plain fun explore it. There are many buildings in the game 
 where you can walk in and make yours and and there's a nice variety of places to see (bakeries, 
 barbershops, banks, hotels) an also many buildings taken directly from the movie such as the Corleone 
 compound.
  
  You will use several cars to do travel through the city and also meet a lot of pedestrians which 
 you can kill (much like the GTA series of games) this will however increase your heat, which will 
 make the police go after you and kill you, this however can be avoided by bribing the police, and 
 they'll also fight in your side if you do this. Other gameplay elements includes: You can hire 
 your own crew to blast your way through the game, and after every mission you'll get respect points 
 which will be use to buy new skills such as being able to plant a bomb in the car or increase the 
 ones you already have like help, its a nice touch that gives it a small RPG feel to the game. There 
 are also tokens hidden in the city which are used to get new clips from the movie. 
  
  The graphics are good, but not as good as they should've been on the wii, the fire and weather 
 effects look nice but most of the buildings and car models look blocky and sometimes just plain 
 ugly, it's not the worst looking wii game, but it is certainly not the best. The characters models 
 however look great and they're just like their movie counterparts. The sound is great and it blends 
 old music with new one making you feel like you're actually part of the game; the voice acting 
 is also phenomenal, many people of the original cast lend their voice to the game including: James 
 Caan, Robert Duvall and there are even some parts where you'll hear Marlon Brando before he died, 
 the only disappointing thing is that Al Pacino is nowhere to be found.
  
  Overall this game is great, there are a lot of missions and it's strangely addictive. This game 
 grabs you by the balls and doesn't let you go until you're done with absolutely everything. It 
 doesn't hurt that there's barely any competition on the wii but this one is great on its own and 
 it's a must for any action fans who own a wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kungphooey
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Godfather blackhand for the wii is sort of a mixed sucess.
  
  Good: beating the crap out of store owners is amazing, killing a mafia member by thowing him in 
 an oven is way too much fun. Good driving and beautiful 30s cars. Fun missions that tie into the 
 film well. Descent gun veriaty, lots to do, good RPG.
  
  Bad: ugly buildings that look the same. crashing a 1930s car breaks my hart, really, it hurts me 
 inide. 
  
  If you've missed the godfather the film, then poor you, but if you have the means to buy or rent 
 the game, i reccomend it. It's grand theft auto in the thirties with different stuff to do (and 
 no hookers) .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ponmop
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  I picked up The Godfather a couple weeks ago based on the generally glowing reviews I've seen here 
 and elsewhere. I was not disappointed. I have to admit that once I got into it, i was pretty much 
 addicted, to the degree that I'm still usually putting in a minimum of 2 hours on it every day. 
 I'm about 35 hours into it now, and though the missions can be very similar, they're also very 
 fun -- a fair trade off, in my opinion. Gameplay is top notch. The motion controls are implemented 
 very well, and the use of IR aiming with the Wii-mote is a terrific addition to the "sandbox" genre. 
 
  
  There are some minor complaints, such as lackluster graphics, no doubt ripped directly from the 
 PS2 version with very little enhancement. There is also an opening cutscene every time you start 
 the game that you can't skip. It's only 10-15 seconds, but it does get pretty annoying after you've 
 seen it 20 times. The game is not immune from the occasional glitch, be it graphical or otherwise, 
 but the good aspects of the game far outweigh any complaints I could think of.
  
  The Godfather serves as excellent proof that the Wii is not only capable of handling the GTA style 
 games, but is nearly perfect for them. If this type of game interests you at all, don't hesitate 
 to grab The Godfather. I hope to see more games of this caliber from third parties in the near 
 future.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigglefitz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  Where to begin. First of all, lets just forget about the additional content. Car bombs fun, leveling 
 system fun. There.
  
  The thing that hooked me personally was the controls. It reminds me of what I tell my friends; 
 games have always allowed you to shoot people, but the wii lets you point the gun. Not only can 
 you alternate between lock-on and free aim (bye-bye gas tank!) , but you can shoot different parts 
 for different effects. Knee caps, arms, face etc. Then the melee contols come along. Weather you're 
 talking to a shop keeper, or his entourage, the melee controls are just solid. Left jab, right 
 hook, headbutt... it's all there. Overhead smash with a bat, bare-handed choke, molotov, knee to 
 the face, pistol whip. It all just feels right. If you have a Wii, but not this game, do yourself 
 a favor and buy this game. Now. As in right now! GO! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supadave841
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  This is a great and innovate game. Much better than San Andreas. I have to admit, I enjoyed San 
 Andreas for about a week then I got so tired of it. This game is much better. In this game you 
 can extort businesses, start gang wars, bomb rival gang busineses, bribe cops, hire a hit squad 
 to help you with missions or gang wars. The Wii remote makes good use especially when you're throwing 
 left and rights and using melee combat. This game actually has a point to the story unlike San 
 Andreas and it feels like a take over experience. San Andreas is so generic and corny. There's 
 barely any music in that game, except when your driving. The Godfather has plenty of music and 
 its little tweaks like that which make a game much more enjoyable. I think San Andreas is the most 
 overrated game of our time and because of that game, others like it will suffer because they don't 
 live up to the San Andreas Hype . I'm tired of that game being the blueprint for games like it 
 or the high point. That game isn't even that good. I was hooked on The Godfather for hours straight 
 because this game is actually interesting. Don't play games based on Gamespot's ratings because 
 if I had a penny for every time I brought a game because Gamespot said it was extraordinary, Bill 
 Gates would be mowing my lawn. There are tons of wii games that they give a mediocre rating, like 
 twilight princess and Metroid Prime 3, because they still use the same classic formula. Halo 3 
 did the same thing and it got a frickin 9.5 rating!! What is that? That just shows that their ratings 
 are inconsistent and total blasphemy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viictoriio
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  Some said Scarface was a bit confusing in the beginning, they didn't really know what to do... 
 well, that was my feeling with Godfather. That, and the slow cars and frustrating controls...
 
  
  But no wonder, it's a complete different game. Good story; well some parts are really weird but 
 the scenes are very nice and voices are splendid. The missions themselves are a bit too easy imo 
 but you can spend as mutch time as you want with the game... after you finished the story missions 
 there's a lot of work todo. I just did all the contract hits what was fun, I took over some warehouses 
 and all the compounds without using a hit squad. Great do be promoted to Don. However, in order 
 to get Don of NY you really have to take over a lot of rackets which is a bit too much for me...
 
  
  Too bad the story missions are over pretty soon because the last ones were the best. Good game, 
 you should try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enrique_marrodz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  As some surely know, this game is based on the fictional universe described in the Godfather movies/books 
 series. All the plot is set as a parallel story to the one described in the afore mentioned media.
 
  
  You'll play the role of a kid who loses his father in a vendetta because he worked to the Corleone 
 family. Later, as you join the Family , you'll be able to develope a reputation and grow among 
 the ranks until you reach the top of the ladder.
  
  As simple as this may seem, is good enough to keep you busy performing some errands, specific missions, 
 or just causing mayhem at your will in a big, big map of old NY.
  
  The graphics are pretty standard and there are some pop-up issues as the draw distance is not too 
 far. Also, you can find some decent notes on explosions, and the huge model for the city can compensate 
 this.
  
  About the sound department you'll get full voice acting and the city is a busy bee, as everyone 
 in the streets talks to you or keeps their own conversations, all depending in your actions. Also, 
 the music is pretty good and sets the mood for a black film, altough it only plays when your in 
 a car which is a shame. Explosions, gunshots, and everything else is just ok.
  
  The really high note is played by the controls. The wii-mote/nunchuck combination makes great to 
 play the combat system, assigning each control to your left or right hand/foot, enhancing grabs 
 and, specially, executions, as this adds to the immersion of the game in such a fine way, you'll 
 be avid to collect all execution styles and repeat your favorites several times!
  
  Finally, with ton's of collectibles, sidequests, and a robust story aligned to the original one, 
 you'll find a very enjoyable game and a very good proposal to all third person action/adventure 
 games to follow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThickFreak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far the best action game on the wii so far, and until they release another GTA 
 knock-off for the wii, this is how your gonna wanna get your open world fix.
  
  The action in the game slowly builds up from intense 1-on-1 encounters to frantic fire-fights with 
 dozens of cops. The innovative melee controls work perfectly, and it's very satisfying to slap 
 some gangster in the face, then crack his neck by shoving the wii-mote to the side. The guns you 
 start out with aren't the best, but they sound great, and by the time you've leveled them up all 
 the way, you are in for a real treat. The level 3 tommy gun is my particular favorite. The city 
 is very large, and the addition of a few new cars make it easier to find good, fast ones. Overall, 
 this is a must buy for anyone who has a wii and a craving to shoot things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msi276
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather-Blackhand Edition follows the story of the original games but it adds new missions, new 
 areas, and an awesome new control scheme. What the game lacks in graphics it makes up for in presentation 
 and control. The missions are fun and easy. But the real point in which this game shines is the 
 controls the controls are very well mapped out but sometimes aren't responsive. Overall this game 
 is a great deal for 30 bucks. If you ar looking for a great GTA like game for the Wii this is a 
 must buy.
  
  Pros.
  Great controls
  Only $30
  A good replayable game
  
  Cons.
  Controls aren't always responsive
  Not the best graphics
  
  Thank You for reading
  msi276 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: resident_rozza
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 5, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather, it was first released back on the good old PS2 and Xbox, since then not a lot has 
 changed.
  You play as your own created gangster in 1940's New York, following the plot of the film.
  
 
  To begin with The Godfather seems like a fresh, perhaps even original take on the Gangster genre 
 of games, allowing to create yourself with Mobface, a whittled down version of the EA Sports Gameface, 
 and rise through Don Corleone's ranks to become the Don.
  You re-live much of the film with events taking place around you and your gangster having a direct 
 influence on how they happened, however they are never actually at the scene (just close by) .
 
  You are given the mass roaming freedom of GTA with the usual mix of do this-do that missions (such 
 as an assassination, or fire-bombing) .
  You have the fully stealable cars and a crime meter to, obviously, show just how much trouble you 
 are in with the law, the thing with the Wii edition of this game is that it is so darn easy to 
 pick up and play, EA have done a fantastic job on control schemes. It is so easy to pick up and 
 play, this is all layed out in the simple tutorial at the beginning of the game.
  
  The real problem with The Godfather: Blackhand Edition is that is way too much of the same boring 
 action games we see time and time again, the repetitive mission structure, the taking over of territories 
 and the same old civilian/cop killing for random fun/violence/bloodlust. This is a real shame because 
 the Blackhand has some truly great controls and some missions are truly fun to play, but with bad 
 graphics (even the Wii can do better than this) easy gameplay and the same repetitive structure 
 that we see al the time its just too difficult to merit The Blackhand Ediion for being an outstanding 
 game, its just another middle class action game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magnus500
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  El Padrino: BlackHand Edition es un juego que toma mucho de la serie GTA, pero que nos sumerge 
 en el universo de Mario Puzzo casi al instante de tocarlo.
  Representamos a un muchacho que pierde a su padre de ni&ntilde; o, en una lucha con una banda rival. 
 Desde ese momento se convierte en protegido de Don Vito Corleone. Este juego llena muchos de los 
 espacios que la pelicula deja en blanco, contandonos que sucede entre las escenas mas importantes 
 (y algunas las cambia) .
  Una de las mejores cosas son las voces del doblaje, que en algunos casos, como el te Tom Hagen 
 y el de Sonny Corleone, son los actores originales (Robert Duvall y James Caan) .
  La modalidad del juego es por misiones, las cuales nos van entrando en la historia, siendonos asignadas 
 por los persojaes mas importantes. Tambien tenemos misiones secundarias, como por ejemplo eliminar 
 a alguien, o extorsionar negocios para tener mas dinero y agradar la influencia de los corleone 
 en New York.
  Otro punto fuerte, es que tenemos un mapa para recorrer inmenso, muy bien ambientado en los a&ntilde; os 
 40, donde nos muestra un New York separado en secciones y bandas, y lo mejor es que podemos recorrerlo 
 sin tiempos de carga!
  Los graficos se quedan algo atras en la historia, parecen de Playstation 2, y si bien el juego 
 estuvo programado originalmente a ese nivel, no le han hecho ningun arreglo para esta version y 
 la Wii puede dar mas.
  Los controles son geniales, responden al instante siempre, y son muy instintivos. Podemos darnos 
 el gusto de apalear a cuanta gente querramos, con los movimientos de nuestras manos.
  En definitiva, es un juego que merece ser jugado, y que nos llevara unas cuantas horas para terminar. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason_jalet
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  I got this game a while back, but I forgot to review it . Now as you all know this game was released 
 for older consoles like a year before it came out on Wii, so what's new in the Wii version and 
 is it any good? Here's what I think:
  
  Storyline: you cant have a good game without a decent storyline. Now if you are unfamiliar with 
 the Godfather movies (Like I was) , you might be a little confused at first, but soon enough you'll 
 find the storyline real engaging and the characters are very interesting. ****
  
  Graphics: These graphics are similar to the Xbox version. I had both versions, so I compared them. 
 They looked the same to me -but that isnt a bad thing. The graphics in this game are really nice 
 and the characters are presented very well. ****
  
  Controls: the Wii controls work fine here. They weren't rushed like so many other Wii games, so 
 they are responsive and fun. Its doesnt add an awful lot to the game but it is fun to beat up people 
 swinging the remote up back and forwards. ***
  
  Durability: This game is nice and long. Obviously if you just go from mission to misson without 
 any roaming, the lenght of the game will drop fast but still its enjoyable while it lasts. You'll 
 definitely be playing from anything from 12 to 25 hours. ****
  
  Cons:
  .some missions get very repetitive and you will wish that there was more to the game
  .the only 
 vehicle you can drive is the car and trucks. No planes, boats, bikes... its a pity that the New 
 York area can't be explored to its full potential.
  .the game looks very dark, even during daytime, outside looks a little dull.
  
  Overall: even 
 with minor little cons, this is a great game for any Wii owner, and if you're looking for a fun, 
 GTA style game on the Wii -this is the one (or Scarface) . I sure had fun playing it!
  
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mylie1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 5:51 am PT
Review:  The Godfather Blackhand Edition is a great game. I haven't watched the movies yet (I know-I'm missing 
 out) but I can still enjoy this game. The ammount of stuff to do keeps you busy for hours and distracts 
 you from a fun story mode which is at an average length. It's fun and the controls are pretty sweet 
 on the Wii, but it won't seem like that at first. I'll be honest with you-at first, I wasn't enjoying 
 myself much. The Wii motions are very fun to pull off, but it took me too long to get used to them. 
 After playing Zelda TP to death, it took me ages getting used to the controls on Godfather. For 
 example, the pause button for Zelda and Red Steel was the Plus button, here it's the 1 button. 
 I found myself constantly crouching when I was trying to pause the game because of this. The guns 
 are fun to use aswell, but when you've got an overwhelming ammount of motions to get used to along 
 with the button controls, I found myself struggling to remember what button it was to get the guns 
 out in the first place!
  
  The driving works, but it isn't much to speak of. You press the A button to get into cars and you 
 also use it to run. I found myself driving a car that was on fire meaning it was gonna blow up. 
 When I got out of the car, I held down the A button to run away and not get caught in the blast. 
 Instead I got back in the car and died. And whenever I didn't hold down the A button to run, I'll 
 still get hurt because I didn't run fast enough! The graphics are great on the characters and the 
 fire and explosion effects are just badass, but the rest of the graphics suck with bad textures 
 and pop in. Overall, this game is great stuff, the missions are fun and lengthy, the controls are 
 great and there's alot to do in this game, but the learning curve is colossal. Check it out as 
 I've played this for months and still get a kick out of it.
  
  8.5/10
  
  84/100 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ksig235
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  I really like this game. I have played it many times over and over. The plot is good. It stays 
 with the movie but does not infringe on the movie. You become the random muscle guy from the movie. 
 The controls are addictive! The strangle is the best part, and the gun lock feature is one of the 
 best that I have used on the Wii. The only thing that was bad about this game was the graphics. 
 I have to admit, they sucked. I thought I was playing the N64. But once you get past that fact, 
 it is a great game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBatFreak777
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  Probably my biggest complaint with this game is the graphics. However, I'm coming to realize that 
 my actually have a widescreen LCD panel will cause some graphics issues now and again. Because 
 of the resolution of my TV many games, Wii or otherwise, can look kind of grainy because they get 
 stretched out a bit. Anyhow...
  
  I was looking forward to this game as it just isn't so kiddie like many of the other Wii games. 
 Honestly, it is just about right at a variety of levels. It COULD be a little more difficult I 
 guess but I still enjoyed the game quite a bit.
  
  I really liked how you had, essentially, two directions to go at the same time by going through 
 the actual game quests and then simply taking out the families. I decided to mix it up and do some 
 of each and by the time I became Don I had already gotten a lot of the families taken care of so, 
 ironically, the conclusion of the game was sort of anti-climactic.
  
  If the Wii can be more intentional about getting some more adult-style games along with improving 
 the graphics I think we'll be in good shape. I still like my PS2 more than the Wii but this game 
 was a nice piece of work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CelticPride3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather: Blackhand Edition for the Wii is one of the first sandbox games for Wii made by 
 Electronic Arts. It sets you up in 1950's New York where you are apart of the infamous Corleone 
 Family.
  
  First Impressions: When I first started playing this game, I thought it was one of best games for 
 the Wii (it was one of the only at the time but still is pretty great) . After time I kept getting 
 more emerged into the game and just kept playing. Once you get into the game, you can enjoy it 
 right off the bat from the tutorials to getting right into missions.
  
  Graphics: Ok, we all know Wii isn't the graphics king and The Godfather is no jem. The graphics 
 are not as good as the Xbox 360 or PS3 version, but it is better than last gens versions. But it's 
 not so bad to look at that you will be turned off from playing this game. From my experience, I 
 didn't like them so much, but I adjusted to it, and once you can do that, you can see that EA didn't 
 put much focus on graphics but rather gameplay.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in Godfather is pleasing. The Wiimote and Nunchuck work very well together. 
 Using the Nunchuck to move and using the C-button for a weapon wheel works very well. You also 
 lock on with the Z button, and shoot with the B button. Your A button is for interaction and your 
 1 and 2 buttons act as a map and a select screen sort of deal. Where Godfather excels though is 
 it's gestures from the Wiimote and Nunchuck. When you are either doing an execution with melee 
 weapons, and shooting somebody square in the forehead, the gestures show up in the bottom corner 
 and they work a lot of the time. Sometimes you might have to try two or three times, but that's 
 only on occasion.
  
  Sound: Sound is an issue for Godfather in some sorts. When you're walking down the street, you 
 will hear people chatter and make reactions to you. You will also hear car honking horns and start 
 shouting. But the lack of music kills it. When I'm driving in my car, I want to a hear and old-time 
 radio with nostalgic music. Overall it's ok, but good have been better.
  
  Difficulty: The Godfather doesn't really have any difficulty trouble to it. It can be just right 
 for people who aren't good at sandbox games because the enemies get harder, or somebody who is 
 good can make it complicated by taking things stealthy and taking enemies out like that. It's not 
 hard to adjust to at all and you can get the hang of the game in probably half an hour- an hour.
 
  
  Overall: The Godfather: Blackhand Edition for the Wii is a solid game, with it's faults, but can 
 be covered up from gameplay and a good story. The graphics take away from the experience though 
 in the long run, and can take away from the whole experience if you make a big deal of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cfc4eva
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  At last, mature gaming for the Wii!. For too long the most adult game Nintendo had to offer was 
 Resident Evil. The Godfather: Blackhand Edition is not just the old Godfather games with a fancy 
 subtitle, and is by no means 'just another GTA clone'. This game takes full advantage of the Wii's 
 revolutionary control system and is highly addictive. When your not completing missions from the 
 powerful Corleones, your extorting businesses, smashing shops, killing rival gang members and blowing 
 up whatever the hell you feel like. The game ties in with the first movie, but does not follow 
 the whole storyline. The Godfather Blackhand Edition had easy-to-grasp controls, awesome game play, 
 decent graphics and great storyline.
  Graphics: 7/10
  Game play: 10/10
  Controls: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: striljr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  I think this game deserves much more than just a 7 with a scale of 1 to 10. It's more than just 
 a great game. It's a wonderful work of art Wii game, like the movie which is also a work of art. 
 The controls are awesome!!! Punching!!! Chocking!!! Shooting!!! Aiming!!! and best of all you get 
 the free rome around the city unlike the PSP version which I enjoyed, but beat in a very short 
 amount of time for this reason.
  I love the fact that there's the cut scenes like in the movie and you can take over places and 
 fight the other mafias like you've never fought before!!!
  It's like Grand Theft Auto only it takes place during the olden days where they had the old fashion 
 cars that you can drive around in not only the city, but in the tri-state area!!!
  Get this game!!! That is if your parents allow you to play a game with strong profanity, violence 
 and some inappropriate content.
  But if you are then get it you won't be sorry. I'd say it's a must have for Wii owners and remember 
 you work for the Don in this game!!!
  Hopefully there will be a sequel soon!!! I will defenitely get that as well!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbx260
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 10:25 pm PT
Review:  If any of you know me, you know that I work at Blockbuster, and I love games and movies. However, 
 whenever any movie games come out, I usually hate them and avoid them at all cost. Yet, for some 
 strange reason, I was drawn to Godfather: Blackhand Edition for the Wii. I believe this was for 
 two Reasons. The first, is that I had hopes that this games would allow me to indulge whatever 
 fantasies I had about being a mod hitman, as the Wii controls were supposedly designed to really 
 allow for that, and secondly, to see how badly they most likely messed up the Godfather franchise. 
 Thankfully enough, the controls were fantastic and got about as close to real as any game has gotten 
 yet, and they did not mess up the Godfather franchise or storylines, but really expanded upon it. 
 I wont get much into the storyline, but I will tell you that the game play is strangely addictive. 
 From rubbing out other mod families to taking over neighborhoods, Godfather always leave you wanting 
 to get more out of the game. Which is the games only downfall really. First of all, there is no 
 multiplayer mode (which I really cant blame them for) , and the ending of the game is so very anti-climactic. 
 It isnt hard to get 100% completion of the game if you are patient, and the fact of knowing that 
 you did everything the game has to offer is a little rewarding, but it also lets you know that 
 youve done everything you can do with the game. In my opinion, this is a great game, with a lot 
 of really fun and enjoyable game play that is strangely addictive, and tells a very enjoyable story. 
 Definitely worth playing, but rent it, dont buy it. ------------
  
  P. S. This is my first review, so let me know how I did. Thanks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: error11
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather: Blackhand Edition is the the godfather port for the wii. You start of as a lowlife 
 thug (one that you create with the extensive character creation system) that got into a bad crowd. 
 The Dons enforcer comes to get you as a favor from your mother (cliche) . Anyway, you start of taking 
 over small businesses and end up taking over rival family compound to take over new york. This 
 game has some of the best character models for the wii. The map is big and you will have a fun 
 time avoiding cops and just simply driving around. The story and overall game is quite long and 
 immersive as you climb the ranks in the family. Now to the fun part, beating people up while flailing 
 your fists around like a crazy banshee! Seriously though it is quite a guilty pleasure to grab 
 people and hit them and then choking them to death. The controls make it all the better. They are 
 very good and read your movements nicely. So if you like the whole godfather theme or if you just 
 like violent games, then this is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KenpachiSama
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather: Blackhand Edition is exactly what it says it is; A Godfather game that allows you 
 (the player) to bring the blackhand down on New York. Sounds promising, right? Right. As a fan 
 of 3rd person games, such as GTA, I was really waiting for the release of something in the genre 
 for the Wii system. Lo and behold, Nintendo announces alongside Sony that the Godfather game will 
 be merging over to their systems. Having played the original one on the X-Box, I began to get a 
 little excited, but I wasn't expecting a whole lot. The day finally arrived, and the first thing 
 I noticed about the game was the incredible Wii remote applications. Once you locked on to a target, 
 you swung the nunchuck for a punch and you swing the Wii remote for a punch. You have precision 
 aiming with the Wii remote as you guide your gun to the appropriate position (whether you wanted 
 to kill someone by shooting them in the head or chest, or you could wound them by shooting the 
 shoulder or kneecap) , and you can turn the gun sideways, just in case you wanted to be more gangsta. 
 
  
  The story is the Godfather story. No need to comment on how good THAT is, considering the movies 
 have won their numerous Oscars. But the game had tons of side quests that went along the main missions. 
 Driving around a massive map that covered a lot of New York City as well as a little bit of New 
 Jersey was extremely satisfying. Running from the cops never felt so fun, because the AI on the 
 police were actually challenging, as they would clip your car, shoot shotguns out of their window, 
 and genuinely try to take out your tires. But on the flip side, scratch their back and they'll 
 scratch yours. My only negations against the Godfather: Blackhand Edition were the graphics, as 
 they seemed very PS2-ish, and the lack of replay value. I'm usually not a carer of graphics (especially 
 if the game is downright good) , but knowing that the Wii has somewhat more power than a PS2 but 
 that wasn't taken advantage of kind of bothered me. Secondly, the replay value is just not there. 
 It's like actually watching the Godfather movies. Once you finish watching the trilogy, you kind 
 of don't want to watch the Godfather for another couple years. The game makes you respond very 
 similarly, as you find yourself not wanting to play it that much once your finished. But does it 
 give a good run for a buck? It sure does. If you have never played a Godfather game and have a 
 Wii to do it on, I would highly recommend finding it and buying it, especially if you can get it 
 at a reduced, used price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IHaveTourette49
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  Yes the graphics may be a little off. But this is wii not 360. I love the use of the wii remote 
 in this game. IM not very far in the game but it seems, like it will last a very long time. The 
 story mode (based on the movie) is excellent, and very accurate. There are also many side missions 
 that will keep u busy for a long time. This is a must have for the wii console. i have had the 
 game for a week, and have not stopped playing it since. I think that this system really needed 
 a game like the godfather due to the maturity of the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BVP16
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 14, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  The game all round is brilliant, the controls are very responsive and mimic real life actions, 
 throwing someone actually requires you to handle the remote like your actually throwing somebody, 
 same with punching (as you would expect) along with other things. They respond very well and appear 
 to be mapped well on very few occasions have i noticed them to be unresponsive (Maybe 4-5 times 
 in the 20+ hours i have on my save file)
  
  The voice acting in this game is brilliant, really sets the mood of the game, along with the music 
 and cut scenes.
  
  The aiming aspect of the game is simple yet brilliant at the same time, you do not have to focus 
 on trying to do too many things at one time, with the auto aim all that is required is a up and 
 down motion to decide just what section of the body you want too shoot. The unlocks and increases 
 attributes are a great feature, each time you receive a new point it's applied to make your character 
 that much better, these include, increased attack speed/power, increased health / health regeneration 
 rate, accuracy, shortened reload times, increased speed whilst crouched and much much more.
  
  The story is brilliant as are the missions and as you progress it gets more and more difficult, 
 with some great aspects thrown in such as Hits where your hired to kill somebody and receive bonus 
 cash and point if it's done in a specific way.
  
  All in all it's a great, solid game and is worth anyone's money. A great addition to anybody's 
 Wii collection. A must get, even if you have not played any previous Godfather games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guynamedyeah
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2007 11:05 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to keep this short; there really is no need for a long review for a game like this. Pros:
 
  
  *cheap
  
  * immersive
  
  * has a lot of gameplay to be had *No matter how long you play, there is another shop to take over, 
 another mob war close to happening
  
  *police chases through a well put together ol' time new york *a well done storyline with missions 
 being only a piece.
  
  *has a fun character creator you can access through the entire game if you get bored with how you 
 look.
  
  * awesome fighting mechanics which uses the wii-mote really well
  
  Cons:
  
  if you are left handed (like i am) , there is no option to make your character left handed also, 
 so when you swing the wii-mote in your left hand, the right hand of the character swings... takes 
 you out of the game a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brain_ager
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 28, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Godfather: Blackhand Edition is a very compelling mafia game with the perfect storyline for the 
 Godfather trilogy. This game has all the parts of the Godfather trilogy and some cut scenes strait 
 from the movie. There are also some side missions that can be fun, but also really bad. During 
 the main missions of the storyline, there are lots of swears and violence (which is what the story's 
 about) . The weapons from Godfather are very neat to use. The Wii's control scheme is very interactive 
 with the shooting and aiming of the guns. The controls for the choking and Garrot wire use is very 
 realistic at some times. It's nice that you can have car bombs and dynamite sticks to use on the 
 safes and cars. You can get the biggest explosions out of the tanker trucks by parking a few in 
 a row and putting a car bomb and you better just run! The explosion of the tankers are just incredible 
 to see from up close. They aren't as good to see from a distance. There are some cool cars in Godfather. 
 I don't know the names of them, but you can tell if they're any good by seeing how fast they go. 
 The bigger cars go a bit slower than the smaller cars, but the little cars can catch fire if you 
 can hit them hard enough. The other family's racket trucks can be worth a couple thousand bucks 
 if they haven't delivered the goods yet. When you stop the trucks, a couple mobsters get out and 
 start shooting at you. It's always good to have a partner with you in case you get into trouble. 
 The cool part about having a partner is that if you can hire a hit squad, you will have about five 
 guys along side of you to protect you. By bombing some of the other family's compounds, they will 
 become your's. Some of the cool features left out from the other Godfather games is that you can 
 call a taxi and get somewhere a lot faster than driving there all by yourself. The only problem 
 is is that you have to call from one of your safe houses. One of the good things about your safe 
 house is that when you in trouble with the cops, the safe house will take off two stars from your 
 wanted level. My favorite feature from the game is your rank. Your rank gets higher as you play 
 missions that can promote you to the next rank. If you rank all the way, you can become the Don 
 of NYC. Then you won't have to deal with mobsters anymore. You can still run over people and get 
 into trouble with the cops though. Overall, this game is a definite buy for all you godfather fans 
 out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smeghead83
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 24, 2007 12:02 am PT
Review:  Yep sorry for the bad pun, I know it was awful.
  
  But getting to the matter in hand, the review of this game. Now this game is some thing of puzzlement, 
 a game based on a movie made in the 1970's... thats good, no really good.
  From the moment you start this game and make your own custom character you will find yourself immersed 
 in 1940's New York City as a bit time 'hood' working for the Don, but through new story lines and 
 side missions that were added on just to the Wii and PS3 versions of this game you are soon on 
 your way to becoming the Don itself with a character that you call full upgrade with experience 
 points to make better at shooting, running or buying out rackets.
  
  Now in terms of game play Godfather offers simple to follow game play with the nunchuk serving 
 to guild your character and the Wii-remote as your gun/weapon, now when involved in hand to hand 
 combat (which you will be a lot in this game) is controlled using the nunchuk for left hand punches 
 and jab and the Wii-remote for right hand punches and jabs. Now in terms of aiming you can simply 
 press the B trigger to lock on and then shot, or press the + button and use manual aim, while manual 
 aim is better for those head shots auto-aim is more useful in the games rushed and frantic big 
 battles. Motion controller also comes into play for the games Backhand moves, these are execution 
 moves pulled off when an enemy has low health, now depending on what move you do depends on your 
 weapon and position to the enemy. So you could get a simple bullet between the eyes or slapping 
 someone to the ground and then stamping on and breaking their neck, each move has its own motion 
 and is displayed in the bottom of the screen to show you how to carry it out.
  
  Now in terms of graphics, I think people know by now that the Wii isnt about graphics and are 
 more concerned about game play, but it seems on Godfather both are carried out quite well. Now 
 while not PS3 or Xbox360, the frame rate here is very good even at high speed car pursuits and 
 character and buildings all look impressive.
  
  While you can have fun driving around and hijacking peoples cars and shooting up the place you 
 will have to carry on with the story mode, now while the game does have you go to shops and nightclubs, 
 killing the guards, buying out the owner and then buying out the racking in the back. This can 
 get a big boring and repetitive, and is only saved by the huge amounts of racks and different mobsters/rival 
 families owning each location. Also bribing local police is a must in this game to stop yourself 
 being arrested or shot dead, and adds a certain satisfaction when taking down and enemy racking 
 with the police helping you (you can bribe them to fight for you) . Add to this game our the warehouses, 
 HUGE enemy strongholds, takeout the warehouse and you take control of that area of New York and 
 by bombing rival family homes (main base/stronghold) This will take out that family... but should 
 only be carried out if their is a mob war going on.
  
  All in all this is a very enjoyable game and if you have a Wii and are looking for a fun game with 
 loads of replay ability, then this is for you. ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jemberley1000
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 22, 2007 10:10 pm PT
Review:  I thought the game was amazing. Although graphics werent that great the ingameplay and customization 
 of your character bring a unqiue feel with this game. It really brings the memories of the movie 
 back to life and you can really take the game seriously due to the movie scenes unlocked from the 
 original movie. I had alot of fun with the game i think anyone who loves gaming should try this 
 out. Theres alot to do in the game but the truth is it doesnt take much time to do it. I bet the 
 game and got everything there was to get in only 2 days so i suggest renting this game insted of 
 buying, be still a great addition to have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trini_hoshi
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 13, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  Finally a game that actually uses the wii controls in a fun matter. The Wii has a lot of potential 
 to make very fun and creative gameplay but, so many titles have fallen victim of not knowing how 
 to truly use the wii controls. This is not the only game that understands how to use the controls 
 but, it definately hitting on all points. You play as a guy whose father worked for the Godfather 
 and is gunned down. Now its nine years later and you're in trouble with a gang so your mother convinces 
 the Godfather to send Luccia Brachi to bail you out of trouble. You work for him a little while 
 until Luccia gets murdered that is. Then you rise among the ranks of the Corelone Family by convincing 
 businesses to give money to the family, controling the various gambling areas and under underworld 
 businesses, taking over the warehouses, doing hits on the other family, etc... You can even hire 
 a low level thug that talks like your typical mob idiot that takes orders from his boss that adds 
 a little backup to you but also some laughs as you crack up at his typical steriotype personality. 
 This is one of the great titles for the Wii. It's a game with tons of replay value. It's a hit. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smogtoe
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 12, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  The essential mobster movie, The Godfather, gets a makeover in the form of an interesting and innovative 
 video game. Over the last decade, we have seen numerous games in a 3rd person vantage point. Games 
 with an image of a character going on a tirade of gunfire, to complete missions. Now, with that 
 thought in mind, imagine a game with similar attributes, but gives the player a little more freedom 
 to go about handling miscellaneous tasks outside of the main mission and has a motion control scheme! 
 Whoa Nelly!!! Sign me up!! By that token, the game-play itself has a leisure feel to it, but still 
 manages to give some tense moments. The mission objectives themselves are easy to follow with knowledge 
 of an in game map, and navigation abilities. Travel within the game is done by two measures: driving 
 yourself , or using a phone within the safe-houses to call a driver. The driving yourself is pretty 
 much like any other 3rd person driving experience, thumb-stick to steer, button for brake, button 
 for hand brake (slide braking) , and, of course, the gas button. When you hire an accomplice, you 
 can have them shoot out the window while driving, but you have no control over the gunfire of the 
 gun-for-hire . Truth be told, outside of the average driving scheme we've seen before the game 
 is not bad, not bad at all. The extortion of business' by means of a gesture control element somehow 
 feels so sinister; but cool at the same time! Being able to walk your character into neighborhood 
 business', to extort money, has an everlasting appeal to it. I was truly upset, once I had extorted 
 all the business'. I even tried destroying some of the business' with hope new ones would pop up. 
 Alas, no cigars! A Sim City like element involving the rebuilding of business' would have been 
 an awesome addition to this game, giving the player an open ended feel. The premise of the game 
 is strikingly similar to a GTA clone with a motion control scheme. However; this game delivered 
 me a play experience that could not be touched by GTA. Just making gestures to control the character 
 on screen is so worth the 50 bucks alone. Choking, punching, aiming a gun, swinging a bat, grabbing 
 a victim and slamming their head on a wall, counter, etc. was pretty awesome. For example, grabbing 
 that first shop owner by the lapels, and slinging them against a wall! LOL ! The Godfather theme 
 is totally represented well in this game, and you can even collect clips of the film, through out 
 the game, to watch anytime. I totally recommend this game to someone who is familiar or unfamiliar 
 with GTA type games. I own this game myself, and I still enjoy playing it over again; even though 
 I've beaten it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Randall2412
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 10, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  this game was one of the best games i have ever played with the awesome ways you use the wii remote 
 makes it one of the relistic games for the wii not to mention being able to steal cars bribe cops 
 and rob banks. the down falls for this though are that you cant get more than a few weapons compared 
 to GTA san andreas and there are even fewer cars but it is still a great game. and now i have nothing 
 better to say about this game so i am making it 100 words long by type this message and i cant 
 think of anything now that this message is over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyauau
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 7:58 am PT
Review:  The Godfather is one of the most risque games ever made for fans of the movie. Its about the Italian 
 mafias fighting for territory with Don Corleone as the mediator. Anyway the game should look great 
 in every way.
  
  The gameplay is well thought out. The punching and the driving and using weapons are great when 
 using the Wii remote but the shooting mechanics still needs a lot of work if you don't want in 
 accuracies with every shot.
  
  The graphics are left to be desired but it still looks great in interlace/progressive scanning. 
 The best is how well the characters look. From Don Corleone to Don Barzini, it never looked better 
 and the map with all the locations is worth it with little loading time. Its almost as good as 
 "From Russia with Love".
  
  The sound well, everything sounds authentic. The voices sounded good and the music is ok. It's 
 a little repetitive but it fits in with the theme.
  
  The value is strong. A well thought out story, plenty of hitman missions and pounding on every 
 store is good. If there was more to do, I'd give it my thumbs up.
  
  This game will eventually win everyone's hearts who really loves games. Also because of Twilight 
 Princess on the Nintendo Gamecube or Grand Theft Auto San Andreas on the Playstation 2 is a trend 
 when freedom is a major key to making the game fun. Anyway, this game would hopefully be updated 
 with more things to do on a sequel. Anyway, enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gally66
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 8, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  The good part about the game is that there is plenty of substance. Follows the movie fairly well, 
 and has good length to it. has you rise through the ranks in a cool way that makes you want to 
 keep playing. Fun controls allow you to replay the game and still have fun throwing people off 
 building. cool execution moves make you want to pick up the wiimote even after you've beat the 
 game. a lot of business to extort to make a huge weekly income. Fairly big map. The bad is that 
 the graphics are not anything special, but they pass. not to many weapons but enough, and upgrades 
 for the weapons are expensive. Lastly the limited amount of cars holds you back sometimes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirk_anam
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 5, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Usually, games based on movies suck. but, Godfather: Blackhand Edition, flaunts that that philosophy 
 isn't always right. This game is a very solid addition to your Wii games. The game has virtually 
 endless things to do; you are never left with just doing the story. As you go through the streets, 
 you have the choice to do many things: you can rob the bank, you can take over a business or racket, 
 you can do favors for your family, you can do favors for business owners, bribe cops, and more. 
 the controls are pretty responsive, but the only problems are with the headbutt and throwing gestures, 
 because they get mixed up. The game is very fun to play, especially when you experiment with car 
 bombs and the different guns. The graphics are solid, but no where near perfect, but it doesn't 
 get in the way with the game. overall, buy or rent this game to have a really fun and great time! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigi6745
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 3, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  This is the best Godfather game available for any system. The controls are a lot better along with 
 new features like upgrading your character or upgrading your weapons. The Godfather: Blackhand 
 Edition is a game that is best made for Wii. You can aim at someone's head easier than the other 
 systems or you can just beat the crap out of them with your punches. This game has some very realistic 
 controls but, that is not the real reason I like it so much. The game alone is realistic in many 
 ways. It matches the 1930s very well for a game made in 2007, you can start a war with the other 
 gangs, and you can rob banks. I would really recommend this game to anyone who loves GTA style games, just 
 likes to kill a lot of people, or just hasn't seen the film (like me) . Even playing this game just 
 makes me want to see The Godfather movie. I just love to play this game and I can even play it 
 for many hours and still not get bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyprus646
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  The godfather Black hand edition is done superbly with the wii. The graphics are good with a detailed 
 city and NPC's walking around. The controls are the highlight of the game though EA worked very 
 had to get them right and they achieved it. Most of the time when you throw a right hook the game 
 responds with actually throwing a right hook. Free aiming is a breeze if you wana get off good 
 head shots or limb shots. The story is straight out of the movies with very well done Voice acting 
 and a incredible score with all the themes. EA got most of the actors from th movies aswell the 
 only one thats noticable missing is al pachino as micheal . This is a fun and very long game with 
 tons of sidequest and missions and I almost forgot there is almost no load times but when there 
 is there very short and pretty unoticable. All and all this is one of the best sandbox games I 
 have played in a while I give it a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobrax80
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 26, 2007 10:07 pm PT
Review:  EA has managed to create an excellent game and ported it over perfectly onto the the Wii. It doesn't 
 matter if you have never seen the movie or have never played a Sandbox game. This is a very fun 
 game and should not be missed by any Wii owner old enough to play it.
  
  Graphics: The game looks amazing for a Wii game. It has some of the best character models on the 
 Wii and there are detailed things all through the game. I was surprised that there was so many 
 little details put in this game and everything is so nicely done. The only problem with the graphics 
 are that Popping occurs some times and things disappear too quickly like dead bodies, knocked over 
 light posts, ect. All in all, it's a good looking Wii game.
  
  Sound: The dialog in this game is excellent, there is some nice voice acting in here, also there 
 are nice little touches as well. I have noticed that people in your family will talk about recent 
 events or you can here them tell you where you have to go or who is looking for you. You will also 
 here them congratulate you when you get promoted and basically little details like that. The pedestrians 
 also have little details in there dialog as well, they will talk about the dodgers, president Roosevelt, 
 comment if they see a dead body and all sorts of little details that makes the city seem more life 
 like. Another thing i noticed is that when you the main character threatens a shop owner he uses 
 shop specific threats like if it's a cigar shop he threatens to burn the place or if it's a barber 
 shop he threatens with sharp knives and little things like that also give the game more of a high 
 quality. There are little details like that all over the game. The only problem with the sound 
 is that the sound of a car exploding is repeated and actually a few sounds are repeated and you 
 will notice it after you spend more time with the game. There is also some very nice music in the 
 game and it fits the game well.
  
  Gameplay: This is where the game really shines, the Wii controls are done almost perfectly and 
 i have never had a moment where they were frustrating or got in the way. EA has done a great job 
 on this one. It is so fun to slam people into walls or throw them across the room. There are so 
 many movements in the game and they never disappoint, i will let you find them all. The only problem 
 is that EA didn't map the movements 1:1 but it's real close.
  
  The real meat of the game is going on missions for the family and extorting buisnesses, all the 
 missions have a little variety in them and that makes them fun and non-repetitive. Extorting businesses 
 and taking over rackets never gets old. It's a small little mini-game in it's own way. Basically 
 you have to get the business owners to come close to their Breaking point without going over. This 
 can be done by beating them up in a variety of ways, holding a gun over them, or breaking the shop 
 up, or you can do favors for them, some will just agree to pay you. But if you do go too far they 
 will die or fight back, either way you get nothing. The closer to the breaking point you go, the 
 more protection money they will pay.
  
  You can also bribe cops in a variety of ways, the cops in the streets or the police chief, while 
 costing more will in turn keep the heat off of you for longer, they will even fight for you. Just 
 don't go too far or the cops will be all over you again. Another cool aspect of the game is all 
 the different families . They all own buisnesses too and if you kill too many of them the vendetta 
 against you grows and it might start a mob war. The only way to end those is to either bribe a 
 FBI agent, which are hard to find, or bomb one of their shops, but if you die in a mob war your 
 buisnesses will get bombed. Another thing that is unique to the Wii version is the ability to upgrade 
 your characters skills and other little things like the law, and health, and all sorts of things 
 with the skill points you earn after you complete a mission. This really adds some motivation in 
 playing and upgrading your game as you move through the story.
  
  There is just so much to see in the game and i have not even scratched the surface, i will leave 
 all of that for you to discover, also old New York City is made perfectly and with little details 
 all over the place. Each area of New York City has it's own feel and distinct properties. You actually 
 feel like you are in the 30's or 40's. Overall this is an excellent game and this should be in 
 every Wii owners collection. I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joespimpin
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 22, 2007 1:26 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Decent Graphics, voice acted all the way through, a decent GTA clone, load times are 
 really transparent, customize your character often and with many choices, offers a good play through.
 
  
  THE BAD: Not enough mission variety, lack of other music not related to god father, not enough 
 differences with weapons, free aim is a little bit clunky
  
  FOR PARENTS: This game is rated M for Mature, I strongly recommend that you view the game yourself 
 before allowing someone below the age restriction access to the game, there is cursing and lots 
 of killing in this game along with gesture based actions that are violent.
  
  The Wii has been out for half a year now and there are lots of mini game collections and casual 
 games to choose from. The God Father Black Hand Edition (GFBHE) kind of came at the right time 
 filling the gap for those Wii owners that want something more meaty to do with their console. EA 
 doesn't have the perfect sandbox control scheme in this game but its good enough to make the game 
 playable and allows you to feel like your part of the action.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Lets get it out of the way, GFBHE is a port of the God Father game that has already appeared on 
 other system. Like many ports the Wii controls are tacked on in the end and it shows, I will cover 
 the controls later on though. That aside the game does a good job of presenting it self as a competent 
 GTA clone. The big hook in GFBHE is the gesture based ability to interact with your environments. 
 This allows you to intimidate people grab objects and throw them and aim a gun. Its a fresh idea 
 on a dating formula and is welcome here.
  
  In the beginning you start out with the ability to customize your character and attire which you 
 can change later in the game. The amount of detail you can do entails weight, facial design, and 
 even scars, that along with the various attire you can buy with in game money allow you to really 
 fit the part.
  
  You are throw into the god father world as a simple thug in the wrong gang, with a favor from the 
 god father himself and the help of a few key family members your character will develop over time 
 allowing you to customize certain attributes, from getting more health and better gun accuracy 
 to being able to negotiate and bribe cops to look the other way, its a good variety of skills, 
 but as you play through the game, especially the second time, you realize there are lots of skills 
 you don't need and you soon migrate all your points over to needed skills, but there is some flexibility 
 for those who want to talk their way out of things rather than go all out shooting.
  
  The big draw is the black hand skill, which is only available in the Wii version. This skill allows 
 you to punch and do various moves quicker, with more accuracy and for greater damage and I strongly 
 suggest you max it out. Its alot of fun and very satisfying to use the Wii Remote to interact with 
 your character.
  
  You upgrade your skills with Respect points that you get by completing various missions from, taking 
 out some rival family member, contract killing, taking over businesses and warehouses. But it doesn't 
 stop there you can also get points from buying clothing, robbing banks, bribing the FBI and cops, 
 and buying safe houses. The harder the job the more respect you get, plus many missions have some 
 nice bonus objectives. If you complete them you get bonus points which will help you out in the 
 long run.
  
  To do these tasks you have your black hand skills as well as small arms guns, shotgun, Molotov, 
 dynamite, bombs, and a machine gun. If that isn't enough to get you through the toughest missions 
 you can call in hit squads, hire a crew member to take with you and even bribe the police to be 
 on your side.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  This is the area the game needed the most help in. Aside from something like better textures (that 
 would have been nice) , the game has clipping all over the place and some collision detection problems 
 that really take away from the experience. None of the problems are horrible or break the game 
 though. The game holds up very well at a solid frame rate the whole way through with little noticeable 
 load times. You can seamlessly go through different cities without a loading screen or even go 
 into a building as such. That is a great achievement in itself and EA has done a great job hear. 
 This is one game you spend more time playing then watching the bar and waiting for it to load.
 
  
  It would have also been nice to have more variety in the character models of towns people and more 
 happening on the streets. People fade in and out to close, sometimes even cars disappear and the 
 draw distance isn't as great as you may like as many of the buildings in the distance are not completely 
 rendered. In a better take then a fogged view that some games use, but the game could have spent 
 more time on the optimization block before release.
  
  CONTROLS: (TIES INTO VALUE RATING)
  
  So this is the biggie here, how do the controls work? 
 This will make or break any Wii title, the Wii Remote and Nunchuk require thought and alot of games 
 don't deliver, even first party. The short answer is they deliver quite well. The long answer is 
 below.
  
  The Wii Remote and Nunchuk are both needed for this game. You use the Nunchuk to do things like 
 selecting weapons locking on to bad guys, honking the car horn and its the left hand for black 
 hand interactions. They also made the analog stick work for moving your character and driving the 
 cars in the game, a smart choice considering there hasn't been a gesture based steering system 
 that works well for the Wii yet. The Wii Remote is used to select the menu options, control the 
 camera, point at the screen when you are aiming a weapon and of course firing the various weapons 
 in the game.
  
  So now that you know the basics its time to tell you about the black hand functions. Wii Remote 
 and Nunchuk will work like your right and left hands. You can jab either to punch perform hook 
 shots and power moves, grab enemies and toss them, strangle people and slam them into things. This 
 is very well done for being an after thought for the game and adds a level of interactivity that 
 really makes you feel like you are there. It never gets old and there are a variety of things to 
 do to enemies. Overall its just plain fun. The detection works well for all the moves as well.
 
  
  SOUND:
  
  The sound effects in the game are great. Explosions are nice enemies scream well, the voice acting 
 isn't the greatest but its manageable. The real problem here is the music. After a while especially 
 since this is a long game, hearing the god father theme yet again just gets old. The music is too 
 limited for the length of the game and there is no custom soundtrack feature. It would have been 
 nice to have some radio stations and music from that time period and would have added to the immersion, 
 like if the world was really in that time period.
  
  Characters do stop and talk to each other on the street giving a sense of interaction, but they 
 same pretty much the same thing over and over which kills the experience more so than if they said 
 nothing and kept walking. You can speak with various NPC's on the street and they say a set amount 
 of things but it gets old after a while and you learn just to pass them up and get things done.
 
  
  VALUE:
  
  The controls are well thought out, the mini map is very useful and the game interface shows you 
 alot of different information. You don't go along guessing where things are, what you can do or 
 where you can go. You can do things out of order if you would like and tackle things at your pace. 
 There is specific content that will only unlock if you have completed so much of the story missions 
 but that shouldn't deter you, you will have fun with the various story missions in the game. Its 
 just a shame there weren't more of them. Overall the game has lots of content if you really want 
 to get into it and little if you just want to run through really allowing you to choose your own 
 adventure. Events can unfold in many different ways and enemies take cover and use the environment 
 in various ways adding to the fun and making the replay value much higher. TILT:
  
  There has been many GTA clones before on different systems. The God Father does a good job of adding 
 that mobster charisma and unspoken vendetta that keep it from feeling cookie cutter. There are 
 tutorial videos that explain various things you can do in the game and even an unlockable reel 
 of movie clips for important story driven content for you to enjoy. The God Father isn't a perfect 
 game and has room for improvement. But the added Wii functionality and general presentation of 
 the game will keep you coming back for more. This is one licensed game that I actually enjoyed 
 playing, and there are so many other good things I could tell you even after this long review. 
 I give the God Father for the Wii an enthusiastic 8.1/10 and suggest you pick this title up and 
 add it to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naruto703
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  This is not a GTA rip-off. This game is in my opinion better than Grand Theft Auto. It has execution 
 gestures when you want blood all over the place. The shooting works very well and you will have 
 no problems getting used to them. The gameplay is very good for those who have thier doubts. Yeah 
 that's right, all 6 of you. The graphics are also pretty good. That is good we have the 2 g's (Gameplay 
 Graphics) down pack. The sound is all right also. The game is very long and you will have a very 
 good time playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greekgoddj
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 15, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Great gestures, decent graphics, especially the explosions. The story after a while gets repetative 
 and predictable. Worth playing and enjoyed. When comparing this game to the much older Mafia game 
 for the PC, Mafia was FAR better in temrs of story, music and originality. Compared to Mafia, the 
 car selection and attention to detail (each car behaving differently) is not as good. Police is 
 also not concerned if you are doing extreme speeding, or crashing into things, which in Mafia is 
 something they notice, making it nicer. What Godfather Blackhand has going for it, is the WIIMOTE 
 and the gestures... as if you are really beating people up, throwing them through windows and off 
 balconies, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GunSmith1_basic
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 10, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is a GTA clone. It was started with that premiss because it wants to capitalize on a 
 successful bunch of games, and so its challenge becomes how best to dissassociate from the negative 
 connotations of labels like clone . I think it does a remarkable job. First off, the game plays 
 a lot more like an adventure game than a sandbox game. For a lot of players, this will be a disappointment. 
 I share in that disappointment, but only in the first act. The third act of this game blows away 
 the 3rd act in GTA games, which actually tend to trail off at the end. At the end of Godfather 
 you are an absolute tank driving yourself at rival gangs that you might actually start to pity 
 by the end. This leads me into my main feelings about this game: it does everything that rockstar 
 wishes they could do but are too cowardly to do it. And who could blame them for not wanting to 
 change a winning formula? -- all the changes they have made already have really done nothing but 
 harm to the series. Godfather's changes are not minor however. They include the harsh changes to 
 the crime heat system, where the only way to get rid of heat can be to find a safehouse. The best 
 way is to preemptively get rid of it by bribing policemen in advance. Other innovations include 
 the acquisition of properties system (and its integration into the plot) , the amazing setting, 
 and the fighting system, which the wii negotiates very well...
  
  On that, yes, the wii's unique abilities do something for this game. I never played the other ones, 
 so I will compare it to how GTA works. In the wii version there are so many things to do with your 
 enemies. Hand to hand? Punch, cross punch, charge punch. Grabs? Great for silent kills reminiscent 
 of splinter cell. Throw, strangle, and garrot wire stangle your enemies. The wii allows you to 
 simulate those actions to some degree, making them truly enjoyable. I love grabbing pedestrians 
 and then side slamming them into trash cans!
  
  The RPG advancement system is way better than GTA: SA. It's simple, it's intuitive, and you really 
 look forward to the abilities it gives you
  
  This game fails in some ways. The graphics look great, but not consistently great. The grass in 
 the cemetary, blurry roads, and other cases distract from the great character models and well detailed 
 settings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PBRulez
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 9, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather was a terrific movie, and now, it's a terrific game. The Godfather style GTA gameplay 
 is great. There's loads of content, and hours of stuff to pour through and people to beat up. The 
 story takes the greatness of the Godfather movie and seamlessly weaves its own story into the movie's.
 
  
  Using the Wii Remote and Nunchuk as hands and guns is solid fun, though a little unwieldy. Driving 
 is also fun, although it does not utilise the Wii's motion sensor control. The graphics are good, 
 and the difficulty is just right.
  
  If you loved the Godfather, you'll love the Godfather: Blackhand edition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunman710
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 6, 2007 4:42 am PT
Review:  The Godfather for the Wii is just one of those games that it is really hard to hate. The system 
 works really well with the exception of the free aim system. The motion sensitive actions are all 
 pretty easy to pull of and very satisfying. There is nothing quite like head butting a guy and 
 then curb stomping his head as a finisher. Sometimes the game doesn't pick up your moves so you 
 have to make drastic motions to perform the finishing moves but this is very rare. The story follows 
 the Godfather movies and puts you as a random nobody in the Godfather universe. Any famous scene 
 in the movie you probably either participate in or see first hand in the game. For instance in 
 the beginning you work for Luca Brasi and you are hanging around the bar when he is killed. Overall 
 the story is really well done and keeps you in the game. One of the things that was done well is 
 keeping you busy. There is so much to do in this game you'll never just want to sit around the 
 world and do mindless killing spree like in GTA. You can take of cities by extorting all the businesses 
 and killing off the head family of the city and become a hitman go on missions to whack various 
 enemy family members. However there are a few problems that make this game below what it should 
 be. First off the graphics absolutely suck. The PS2 version looks way better than this and it makes 
 me wonder why can't a brand new Wii beat the graphics of a system that was made over 5 years ago. 
 Then there's the music. Unfortunately, there are three songs in this game which makes it very difficult 
 to play for extended periods of time. There's the Godfather theme song, the car chase song, and 
 some easy jazz. That's it. You will very quickly get irritated by the music or just mute your TV.
 
  
  Overall the Godfather is a great game that I would recommend to anyone with a Wii that hasn't played 
 the game already.
  
  Pros- Godfather storyline, motion sensitive executions, taking over New York has never been this 
 fun.
  
  Cons- Graphics, 3 song soundtrack, and sometimes motion sensitive commands don't work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrZeb
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 4, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  This is the first and only real wii game I've buyed (not counting VC-games or SPORTS) and this 
 is my first wii-review. And since this is my only game I've devoted alot of time in it and completed 
 everything there is to do (40+ hours)
  
  So here it goes. The game's storyline's straight off the godfather film. Which has worked well. 
 Your character is the guy you never really saw in the films, the thug that carries out all the 
 dirty work for the corleones. (drives michael after the hit, places the horse head in the bed etc) 
 It's fun.
  
  Gameplay: The framerates are really good, never really noticed any lags. There are however, load 
 times but these are mostly short and did'nt bother me much. The Wii motion-controlles works really 
 well. You need the nunchuk. When fighting with your fist you make simple boxing moves with your 
 right or left hand. And when shooting you can either auto-aim or do manual aiming with the remote. 
 It all works really well and is fun. There are also execution-moves that you can do if you get 
 up close to your enemies. Love those!
  Driving is really easy with the wii-controlls,
  
  The game plays a lot like the GTA titles, but it also differs in many areas. Like GTA a you're 
 free to roam the city and take a mission when you feel like it but here you'll mostly just EXTORT 
 businesses or do ASSASSINATIONS or FAVORS in your spare time while in GTASA you could do cool vehicle-stunts 
 or improve your character-stats etc. GTASA has A LOT bigger gameworld and more cars, but enough 
 with the comparisons.
  
  EXTORTING is pretty fun at first but gets old sometimes after you get the hang of it. But since 
 doing it actually raises your weekly income you will still see the benefits in continuing taking 
 over one tailor or bakery after the other (and unlocking the racket behind it)
  
  ASSASSINATION missions are mostly fun too, and can be pretty challenging if you choose to try doing 
 the special request (which can be to strangle the guy with your bare fists, or throw him off a 
 roof) But it will earn you much more respect and money. But if you're lazy or in a hurry you could 
 just pop him and settle for less. (I enjoyed the way you could sometimes grab the guy and give 
 him a few words of good-bye before I killed them...)
  
  FAVORS are by far the most boring of the side-quests and usually just involve driving someplace 
 and talk to someone, or kill a few people.
  
  There's is a simple point-allocation roleplay thing going on underneath the action which is used 
 to give you better aim or hit harder, and unlock a few new moves but it's nothing new. Killing 
 other family thugs, finding new venues, buying new safehouses, it all earns you respect which then 
 buys you a point to spend. It's not very original but it sort of lets you choose between being 
 a tough-guy or a business-guy. But a mix is probably the best choice.
  
  GRAPHICS: Good graphics. Nothing revolutionary here, but the fire and explosions are cool. Long 
 drawing-distance. Compared to GTASA I'll just say it's different .
  
  SOUND: Great sound. Film-music! Good weapon-noises and explosion sounds! Really really good!
 
  
  VALUE: Well I've played it for well over 40 hours, but now the Objectives-screen is totally blank 
 and I dont see any reason for replay. I could look at some of the movie-footage I've unlocked, 
 but other than that, 40+ hours was what I got and that's value to me. If you're a godfather-fan 
 you'll love this title.
  
  TILT:
  Final words is that this is a good GTA-style 3D-person that'll have you running and gunning for 
 many hours! Well worth your money if you like these type of games of if you love the Godfather 
 movies...
  
  Thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkknightFXR
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 2, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  There are those that just give a 10 and others that give it less than a 5, well those people are 
 just doing it out of love and hate not for the reasons of reviewing and analyzing... why are there 
 people that do stuff like that... but still
  
  the graphic quality... I find is kind of low but it still is good enough to stay fixated on the 
 game, the motion controls make sense they don't just make you do one action and it does a completely 
 different movement.
  
  Sound is one of the best I've heard from in a long time, this game has broken off from some of 
 the complete disasters of the Wii and gave it more than a second chance. The motion control is 
 stable and it doesn't over do things or go out of sync with what your doing, like if your moving 
 a bit to adjust yourself it does an unwanted action like on same games.
  
  The game has a great length to it making hours of shooting, extorting, wackings on the many Mobsters 
 and cops that patrol the city and the weapon upgrades and the promotion system adds more to the 
 feeling of accomplishment during the game I believe it deserves the rating of 7.8 because it's 
 value could've matched the graphics a little more because I think it's at least 10$ too much but 
 Sound and Game play balance it all out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fang_lord
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 1, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  This is my 20-21st game i have on the wii, and is definatlty one of the best.
  
  The Godfather is a GTA type game, you do what you want, when you want, and nobody is gonna stop 
 you... unless they gotta a bigger gun than you :P
  Personally, i hate this sort of game, i think there boring, uninteresting and would rather die 
 than play one, now considering what i said in above, proves that this game can even appeal to gamers 
 like me, which is the making of a great game.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Many people totally put this game down on graphics, primarily, GAMESPOT, i think they put it down 
 by 1.3 JUST on graphics, which is harsh, but i think that it is a rather nice looking game, although 
 dated, the explosions and most charatcer model look nice enough, and are definatly acceptable for 
 the game, although, much is left to be desired. The size of the city is very impressive, though 
 there is some draw ins, it isnt really all that noticeable.
  
  CONTROLS
  
  Gamespot said they were 'unresponsive' ? well i have yet to see anyone in gamespot use the wii 
 mote effectively so lol. Anyway, the controls are very intuative, you can 'free aim' by aiming 
 with the wii mote, you can lock on the aim at body parts with the wii mote (and the Z button) you 
 punch by doing moves similar to wii boxing, you pistol whip in a similar fasion, you can push people 
 into ovens, off balconies, smash there heads of walls, tables etc, all with simple and realistic 
 geastures. And with the 'executions' it adds more fun and realistic geastures to pull off great 
 looking killing blows, from neck snapping, to blowing there faces off with a double barreled shotgun, 
 each weapon has a different execution, and looks nice.
  
  SOUND
  
  Great Italiany mafia Godfathery music that really fits into the game and makes the game as a whole 
 feel more imersive. The shots from guns, the explosions and the sound of beating someone senseless 
 all sounds nice, and makes you feel like you are part of it, especially with the controls. The 
 game is entirely Voice Acted and although some of the non important NPC's have similar voices and 
 lines, they still sound great, the main charatcers in all the families, and in the main story have 
 excellent voice acting, like Don Vito sounds great, and even your character has a voice that sounds 
 Gansterish, and fits into the game well.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  A pretty large campaigin, loaods of side missions like Favours and Hit List assassinations make 
 this game very varied, and theres always something to do, and thats without all the hotels, shops 
 and hidden rackets spread around that you can Extort. The fun of the game in my opinion is the 
 idea that any shop you can see you can pretty much force to pay you money, with enough persausion 
 of course XD The story is interesting, although some of the places you have to travel are long, 
 and usually boring, once you get into the action, you can forgive the game. And with all the betrayals, 
 ranking up, respect gaining, clothes buying, and leveling up, it keeps you interested from begining 
 to end. Theres also Drug raids, family truck stealing and warehouse bombing that you can participate 
 in, which are all fun, and each add a new experience to the game. OVERALL
  
  Although the decent graphics do let it down abit, i think GS underated it, and doesnt get the credit 
 it deserves. A must buy for any wii owners who havent played many games like this, or who havent 
 played the godfather, but if you HAVE played the Godfather on other platforms, the new controls 
 may not be enough to satisfy your needs, although there is some added content in the black hand 
 edition.
  
  8.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseball_hottie
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 31, 2007 9:58 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather: Blackhand Edition is amazing and probably one of the best Wii titles to date. Sure, 
 the graphics aren't the greatest, but they do a helluva job of realistically depicting the actors 
 from the movies. And the voiceovers are good, its almost like watching an extended Godfather movie.
 
  But the greatest and most innovative thing about this game are the controls. The motion sensing 
 is fun, easy, and not taken to the point where every little thing must be done by some strange 
 movement. For example, choking people has never been this fun before. Walking up to someone and 
 literally making strangling motions, or performing quick punches and heavy punches never gets tiring. 
 The one thing that holds it back is the freehand aiming, which is like Red Steel on high sensory 
 (and that's bad if you know what I'm talking about) . But luckily, there are few things in the game 
 that call for it.
  The gameplay is also ceaselessly fun. Taking over rackets, performing favors, and contract hits 
 are a great way to kill time, and actual missions from the movie (like the horse head =D) are always 
 different.
  
  IN A NUTSHELL: IF YOU HAVE A WII, GET THIS!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colborn1000
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 30, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  This is the best Wii game to date. The fun in the gameplay is endless. The game was great on the 
 XBox and PS2, but on the Wii it hits a whole new level of fun. Can you imagine beating the hell 
 out of someone with a tire iron? With the wii-mote, you can actually sim that by swinging the remote. 
 There is a good selection of weapons in the game. My personal fav weapon is the Assasins Pistol. 
 For each weapon there is 3 upgrades and they are expensive. You can do the story missions or do 
 whatever the **** you want. You can go rob a bank, extort a business, bribe a cop or go on a murderous 
 rampage with a gang of 4 guys with Tommy guns by your side. The graphics are really good for a 
 Wii game. Your character and the Don look really realistic. Some of the characters though... it 
 appears the graphics people tried to hard to make the look good and there faces look like they've 
 been through a grater. Whatever. The sound is phenomenal and the gun sounds are great. Anyhow the 
 game is fantastic. If you have a Wii, you should go out and buy this right now. Or rent it at least. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stoufzilla
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather: Blackhand for the Wii follows the same style of free-roaming gameplay as popularised 
 by Rockstar in games like GTA3 onwards, but as you'd expect from a Wii title, it is the controls 
 which set it apart as a really great game.
  
  Gameplay - First things first, the controls are amazing, the way the controls have been mapped 
 out feels really natural and the motion sensor controls feel very natural (not that I've ever strangled 
 a guy but that's another story) . Everything about the controls is very physical but never actually 
 tiring - beating people up Wii-boxing style, slamming people against walls / tills / shelves/ boxes 
 / EVERYTHING! Throwing people out of windows / off of buildings / against whatever you've just 
 slammed them into, strangling guys, lifting them up and just generally manhandling them. Shooting 
 is fun too, locking onto someone with the Z button but being able to precision aim with the Wiimote 
 to shoot someone in the arm to disarm them, leg to stop them going anywhere, or even using the 
 free-aim mode (pressing the + button) to have full control over what you're shooting at - useful 
 for when there's a box of explosives or fireworks placed conveniently in the middle of a bunch 
 of enemy gang members. Driving is a lot simpler, good to see that the motion sensor controls weren't 
 overused in the game - driving is simply a matter of the B button for gas, Z to brake, C to handbrake 
 and the analogue stick to steer. The story is loooooooong and there is so much to do besides the 
 story missions, taking over businesses and rackets, taking over enemy compounds, hubs and warehouses, 
 hits to take out on people, favours to do for people, weapons to upgrade and MORE! The Story follows 
 the plot of the first film, your created character fits almost seamlessly into most of the missions, 
 your guy always gets involved in the major parts of the movie but generally never disrupts the 
 re-enactment of the scene in the game which is a really nice touch.
  
  Graphics - I personally love the graphics, the facial animation is great and I particularly like 
 the explosion graphics and the fire/smoke graphics in the game. The game runs smoothly throughout 
 and the style of the game is very fitting with the setting of the movie. I can imagine the other, 
 more powerful consoles will have better graphics but for a Wii game at this time the graphics are 
 great.
  
  Sound - the soundtrack sounds straight out of the movie and really sets the atmosphere for the 
 game. The sound effects are also nice - the sound of breaking glass, the thud of bodies against 
 walls, gunshots, you name it. The voices in the game are great with nearly everyone from the movie 
 (who's still alive, even some who aren't anymore) lend their voice to the game (apart from the 
 well known issue with Al Pacino) . In the cases where the real actor hasn't been used, a sound-a-like 
 has stood in; these people are so good you can hardly tell if it's the real thing or not.
  
  Value - I picked this game up about a week after it came out for 35, as i mentioned earlier 
 this game is so long, with so much to do, I would have been happy to pay the initial 40 retail 
 price, but any price of 40 or below will be great value for money. The game has good replay value, 
 I'm looking forward to playing this game again following the other skill tree in the game or mixing 
 the two together, this game will keep you going for a long, long time!
  
  Tilt - Although comparable to the GTA 3 and onward games (as all free-roaming violence games are) 
 The Godfather: Blackhand for the Wii, retelling the story of the first film with innovative controls, 
 feels entirely new from previous experiences of similar games.
  
  Frankly this game is incredible and should not be missed by anyone owning a Wii, a definite must 
 buy for anyone who's enjoyed any of the recent GTA games, even if you haven't you should give this 
 game a rent if possible, as there's a good chance you'll love it (speaking from experience with 
 friends of mine) .
  
  Thank you for your time, and thanks for reading my review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sodafountan
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 25, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  The godfather black hand edition is amazing!!! the controls are stellar in fights and driving, 
 although shooting could use a little work all around the controls are pretty responsive. though 
 this game is no were near as pretty as it's xbox 360 and ps3 counterparts it still looks as good 
 as, or even better than the xbox and ps2 versions. The voice acting is amazing and the story captures 
 you making you want to play it and play it over and over and the story lasts a while not even including 
 all the side missions and businesses to take over. I think if you like games that are free form, 
 or your just looking for a game to tide you over until metroid this is what you should invest your 
 money in.
  
  BOTTOM LINE: This game makes you an offer you cant refuse. (wow that was corny) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wannweed
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 25, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Though the game is very similar to the GTA style, the game's storyling is very enterataining, i 
 mean, who wouldn't want to be a hitman for the Corleone Family. The use of the Wii's control system 
 actaully lets you feel like you're kicking the crap out of a rival gang member or a business owner 
 you're extorting from. The side missions can repetive but the main story missions make up for it. 
 Overall the game is well worth buying. It offers alot of gameplay and fun with the Wiimote. the 
 graphics aren't that good but the shooting controls are solid, the game is a must have for someone 
 who has some spare time ,and would be great to add to your collection of wii games. This game offers 
 a much need dose of mature entertainment of the Wii console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luxen90
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 21, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Ok Imma first start off on how easy it is to learn how to play this game. The controls fits this 
 game so well. With the punching, grabs, shooting, and picking up. I really like how you punch on 
 this game. You are able to hold down the down arrow button to charge your punch for your next big 
 attack. The shooting is good also because you are able to lock-on or do free mode where you are 
 able to aim with your gun and shoot anywhere you please.
  
  The driving in this game is cool I sorta would choose this game in driving over GTA driving. This 
 game is pretty solid for a port of ps2. Its cant really compare this to other ports cause this 
 is a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaigo2k4
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 21, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  The Blackhand Edition adds alot more than it's predecessor. Starting off, you play as a nobody 
 and work your way up to the Don. What makes this game better is it's RPG type feature. You can 
 either play through the game as an Enforcer or an Operator. As an Enforcer you're the Muscle, getting 
 your hands dirty and getting the job done. As the Operator, you have your hit squad do all the 
 work and you can just sit back and watch them shoot at the opposing family.
  
  The Gamplay is nice. Using the Wii controller and chuck to punch, grab, choke, throw, and perform 
 finishing moves really puts you in the game. It's good when it comes to driving too. Like some 
 other games that have you trying to steer your controllers to drive, this game omits that annoying 
 feature, only allowing you too drive with the analog to steer.
  
  The Graphics are ok, not the best though. Once again the Wii could have done better. The best part 
 about the graphics are the fire effects. When blowing up buildings, cars, shooting your gun and 
 watching the shells hit the floor cover up the ok textures. The NPC's in the game would have looked 
 better if they had some shadings, shadows, and better bump mappings of their faces.
  
  The sound is great. The voice actors did a great job along side the explosions and firing of guns.
 
  
  Overall, this is a good game to buy with good value if you decide to play the game sticking to 
 either the Enforcer or the Operator. After you beat the game and have taken over it's hard to earn 
 points to totally fill all your attributes. There's no one to kill besides the police after you've 
 completed everything. This game is best to play through twice, after beating it the first time 
 as Operator or Enforcer play though it again as the other. It's good to keep in your collection, 
 but your not a collector of good games it makes a good rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebandbuddy
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  this game freaking rules, man. this cures my grand theft auto addiction for the wii, and this game 
 is soo interesting, natural, and fun.
  this game makes me feel so tough after i get done playing it.
  it's definately the best game 
 out there for the wii tight now and totally kick a$$!!!
  this game freaking rules, man. this cures my grand theft auto addiction for the wii, and this game 
 is soo interesting, natural, and fun.
  this game makes me feel so tough after i get done playing it.
  it's definately the best game 
 out there for the wii tight now and totally kick a$$!!! this game freaking rules, man. this cures 
 my grand theft auto addiction for the wii, and this game is soo interesting, natural, and fun.
 
  this game makes me feel so tough after i get done playing it.
  it's definately the best game out there for the wii tight now and totally kick a$$!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YearoftheSnake5
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 1, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  Pros: Additional content, lots of missions, huge world to explore, Operator and Enforcer pathways, 
 motion controls work well
  
  Cons: Short draw distance, free-aim is hard to work with, some framerate issues, NYC is just plain 
 ugly
  
  The Godfather: Blackhand Edition for the Wii is very similar to other incarnations of The Godfather 
 we have seen in the past. Blackhand Edition differs in the fact that EA has included all the extra 
 content available on the Xbox 360 version, and a control scheme to take advantage of Wii's motion 
 control capabilities. So how well does the game tie to the movie, and do the motion controls work 
 well? You'll find that this game does both rather well, but not without faults.
  
  The Godfather begins in one of the several districts of 1940s New York, Little Italy. You play 
 as the son of a mobster working for Don Corleone. What seems like a quiet afternoon for your family 
 soon turns into a murder. The Barzini's, a rival family, kill your father, and the Don promises 
 that you will get your revenge. Fast forward a few years, and you become an enforcer for the Corleone 
 family, at your mother's request and Luca's teaching.
  
  Now, I understand that Wii isn't exactly the most powerful of next gen systems, but the graphics 
 in this game are inexcusable. The environment is painted with sloppy textures, and it's hard not 
 to notice. Draw distance is on the short side, and buildings pop up out of nowhere not far ahead 
 of your character. Along with the short draw distance, comes the ocassional framerate problem; 
 while not always there, it can be a problem depending on what you're doing. A combination of short 
 draw distance and bad textures makes 1940s New York into an eyesore.
  
  Characters don't have the texture problem on such a large level. Most of the cast and people on 
 the street look good, even up close. However, you will run into the ocassional person who looks 
 like the cloths were drawn using Microsoft Paint. The character models are smooth for the most 
 part, and none appear to be blocky. Even with that though, the character models are good, but not 
 impressive.
  
  Electronic Arts has made great use out of the Wii controller in Blackhand Edition. The movements 
 you do to perform basic attacks and executions feel natural and leaves the sensation that you have 
 complete control over the character on screen. Fighting is done with punching, pushing, and other 
 gestures with the Wii Remote and Nunchuck. Aiming can be done with either the lock-on system or 
 free-aim. However, free-aim is a hassle to work with, and is much harder to use.
  
  There are many different things to do in The Godfather. Undertaking tasks in the main story will 
 take you through places and scenes from the film. Going through the story will also advance your 
 rank in the family, and in turn, changes how people react to you. If you want to go about your 
 own business, you can choose to accept Hit or Favor missions. For those that would rather not take 
 orders from anyone, there is also the option of taking over businesses from other families all 
 around New York.
  
  Completing missions, buying houses, new cloths, and killing rival family members will give you 
 respect points; get enough, and you gain a new respect level. Each level you gain will allow you 
 to upgrade your character in a particular area. There are two pathways to upgrade under; Enforcer 
 and Operator. The Enforcer pathway focuses on brute force, while the Operator path focuses more 
 on negotiation. Which side you choose to upgrade will effect how you perform in the field.
  
  All the voice acting is done by the original cast from the movie, and is nothing short of stellar. 
 The voice acting brings out the mood and seriousness of the family business and gives all characters 
 their own personality.
  
  Voice acting is only made better by the games awesome soundtrack. Music comes in at the right 
 time to highlight moments within the game and the mood of various places. Tracks are, for the most 
 part, from the movie itself. Other music provided is from or around the same time period that the 
 movie takes place in.
  
  1940s New York is huge, and with all the missions, there is plenty to do. With so many stores to 
 take over, and the variety of missions provided by the story, Hit, and Favor missions, it will 
 be quite some time before you have seen all there is to see in The Godfather.
  
  The Godfather: Blackhand Edition for Wii offers a ton of content and innovation, but it's all wrapped 
 in a visually unimpressive package. If you have played any of the previous versions of the Godfather, 
 Blackhand Edition is worth a rental. However, for those who haven't played this game before should 
 at least try it, and get a glimpse of what it's like to be part of the Family . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tubaballoonz
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 13, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  This game was absolutely amazing. I just can't stop playing. I love creating a character to play 
 as, because it has so many possibilities. For example, me and my friend were goofing off and he 
 made a character that looked exactly like Tom Seleck (the actor from Magnum P. I. and was Richard 
 on Friends) . It would be perfect if he didn'y have that wierd accent. I guess it's just Tom Seleck 
 if he was raised in Little Italy. I love this game. It's pretty much Grand Theft Auto 1945, but 
 with a better plot and without the ability to pick up prostitutes. I think I can live with that. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmish82
Rating: 9
Date: May 12, 2007 7:27 am PT
Review:  After reading some critics reviews, I wasn't sure if I was going to pick this one up but boy am 
 I glad I did. I've always been a fan of the GTA series but I can honestly say that I'd play Godfather 
 over those any day. There's so much more story to this game and it merges with the movie story 
 seamlessly. There is a pretty good variety of weapons to use in the game, but where the game really 
 excels is in the taking over of the city. The game is setup so that you spend the majority your 
 time taking over the rival mob families' businesses and drug rackets. The great thing about this 
 is that you get to extort local businesses to pay you for protection. What I really enjoyed about 
 this is that there are so many businesses but the dialog with each owner is very rarely rehashed. 
 This keeps things fresh throughout the game. Along with taking over businesses, there are hit contracts, 
 favors, and the main storyline to keep you busy.
  
  The controls work near perfectly in this game. I suppose my one complaint would be that there's 
 almost too many moves to keep track of so I found myself using the same set of moves most of the 
 game. There are motion tutorials which explain how to perform each move however.
  
  I guess my only real complaints about the game are that the graphics could have been a bit better 
 but they are by no means bad. The game is definitely long enough to keep you busy for more than 
 20 hours easy. For anyone that enjoyed the GTA series, I would highly recommend the Godfather: 
 Blackhand Edition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyfresh1991
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 10, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  the game is very entertaining and and ypu actualy get to do some movement, i like the aiming and 
 the guns, the free aim, and the combat moves you do are amazing, it lacks in graphics, not much 
 detail
  but still game play never gets boring and at has a lot of little features that make the game fun 
 and anything but boring, the story is some what exciting, there is an awsome use of the wii remote, 
 the bottom lin is the game is fun and keeps you entertained, i think its better than any of the 
 previous roam games, because the wii remote makes the experience alot better, than siting on ur 
 a$$ movint sticks up and down, BORING!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendo_link3
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 7, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  At first I din't know for sure if I would like this game, the thing is I'm not really into GTA 
 kind of games but at the end I went and got this game.
  
  The presentation is really good, the menu is actually reallly simple but does a good job.
  
 
  At the beginning you have to customize your character, which is REALLY COOL, you can change the 
 hair, the nose, eyes and so much more, it's pretty advanced and at the end you will be satisfied!
 
  
  At the very beggining of the game, after the introduction to the main story you will have a sort 
 of tutorial of how the main controls work, they are pretty easy and feels really cool with the 
 wii mote! You'll find yourself making some great moves he he!
  
  Then you will be released in a amazigly big old New york so you can go on to your next objectives 
 wich include, extortioning businesses to make money, bribing police officers so that they give 
 you a hand when you need it and SO MUCH MORE!
  
  The graphics in the game are not the best you will see on the Wii, We all know it's a port of the 
 PS2 version and it actually doesnt change much graphicly... altough you may see more different variety 
 of cars and people in the city than you will in the PS2 version.
  
  The character in the game can evolve in a RPG kind of way with many upgrades that you can unluck 
 in the game! It's a really cool feature!
  
  If you'r thinking of getting this game for your wii and you havent played it yet on another system 
 then buy it. You will have lots of fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umd1998
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 5, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  Pros: The Godfather meets Grand Theft Auto in an overwhelming success; nice-looking explosions 
 and fire
  
  Cons: Free-look aiming with Wii remote doesnt work well unless you change it from the default 
 inverted to normal; background graphics pop in at times
  
  Most video games based on movies stink, so I was highly skeptical about The Godfather: Blackhand 
 Edition for the Nintendo Wii.
  
  Electronic Arts pulled it off, seamlessly intertwining the plot of the greatest mafia movie ever 
 made with best attributes of the Grand Theft Auto series - as well as beautifully re-creating New 
 York City in the 1940s.
  
  It's a match made in Hell's Kitchen, capisce?
  
  Previous incarnations of The Godfather game were released last year on the PS2, Xbox and PC, but 
 the new Blackhand Edition KOs them all. It has 40 more missions, an improved map, spruced-up graphics 
 and a Hit Squad to help you do your dirty work. Even without the extras, the Wii version is tops 
 because gamers use the Wiimote and nunchuk as virtual hands for punching, strangling and shooting.
 
  
  EA spent eight months tweaking the game's Wii controls, and it shows. It's disturbingly satisfying 
 to slam shopkeepers into walls and throw gangsters off buildings, and it's easy to target kneecaps, 
 shoulders or foreheads.
  
  Physically acting out the role of an up-and-coming Corleone mafioso in Blackhand is incredibly 
 immersive. Your character is nearby during iconic moments, such as when hitmen shoot Don Vito Corleone 
 - spilled oranges included - you take part by helping his weakling son, Fredo, frantically drive 
 the Godfather to a hospital. Your many ancillary roles never feel disjointed.
  
  There always seems to be another task for you, such as doing personal favors for the Don -- whose 
 voice was recorded by actor Marlon Brando before he died. Robert Duval (as Tom Hagen) and James 
 Caan (Sonny Corleone) also reprised their roles to voice their characters.
  
  Their characters look good, too, as do the explosions you can cause - which only encourages more 
 thuggery. EA paid exquisite attention to details, even letting you customize your gangster right 
 down to his tie pattern.
  
  The most-violent game for the Wii takes about 40 hours to complete, but if you're a fan of The 
 Godfather, the stellar Blackhand almost seems too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arthie
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 5, 2007 1:49 am PT
Review:  Well at first I was a bit skeptical of buying this game as gamespot gave it a 7.6. But after looking 
 at some videos I just thought, oh well might aswell buy it. But please don't take notice of gamespot's 
 off-target score, this game is a masterpiece!!
  
  Since I've had it, I've spent 26 hours playing it (in total, not all at once lol) and I have just 
 become the don, I have yet to becoem the don of nyc which will take me a long time. When I complete 
 the game I will probably of had over 40+ hours playing it and I will definitely make a new file 
 and start again.
  
  The graphics aren't the best the Wii can produce but they aren't bad enough for you to go OMG I 
 CANT PLAY THIS PIECE OF LOW QUALITY **** So please, if you want to make good use of your Wii buy 
 this game. I have even played it more than Zelda.
  
  And just so you know the sensor moves are PERFECT, they are very well polished of from punching 
 to throwing a bottle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kweni
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 3, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Allright, i'm going to talk about some stuff!
  
  The gameplay:
  
  I think the gameplay is just awesome, i like the way pushing ppl with my wiimote. The way you have 
 to drive is okey, maybe it could have been better.
  This game has a awesome story, and can give you hours and hours of playing!
  I say you should 
 rent or buy the game and try it by yourself! this is just awesome!
  
  The controls:
  Well the controls are simple if you know them, they r easy to learn!
  it took me 10 min and i 
 had it!
  
  The graphics:
  Well, the graphics are not like the uber best but i tihnk it's fine for the Wii.
  
  Well this 
 is allready it! it's not a big review but i think this should help ppl who are not sure yet to 
 buy this.
  See you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WateredTruth
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 30, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Ive tryed the PS2 version. traded it in cause of a game killing glitch. 360 version got boring 
 to damn easy. blackhand... needed something other than twilight princess to take up residence in 
 my wii disk drive. this is actually good!
  
  Godfather begins with your dad being executed by the tatallias. after a confrontion with Don Vito [your 
 father's Don] you jump 7 years to the wedding of Vito's daughter and your mother telling the Don 
 you have gotten into the wrong group of people and he sends luca brazi to take you under the don's 
 family and soon to become a full sicilian made man. The game takes place in the time line of the 
 3 movies. gameplay is simple GTA with a twist. all actions are controlled with your wiimote. execution 
 styles are simple and fun. Chocking... well i love chocking people. so fun! graphics are decent 
 but still lack in stuff that ain't npcs. Voice acting is done by the actual actors [matin brando's 
 last work. and soundtrack is normal godfather. other than that its just like the other ports only 
 FUN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super-Mario-Fan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 29, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  After skipping the GameCube back in 2006, the Godfather finally makes its way onto a Nintendo platform 
 in The Godfather: Blackhand Edition. The game takes advantage of the Wii's controls. This game 
 uses the Nunchuck, so be sure you have one when you play this. The control stick is used for moving, 
 the A button is used for running or talking to people, and the B button is used for shooting. Punching 
 is done by moving the Wii Remote and Nunchuck forward, and locking on is done with Z. The controls 
 came out really good, much better than I initially thought, but the game is still far from perfect. 
 The graphics are horrible, even for a Wii game. The voice-overs, though, are much better. There 
 are also some glitches that can pop up from time to time. Sometimes, you'll see people walking 
 in mid-air. Other times, you'll fall through the floor to your death. It is best you save a lot 
 in your safehouses to avoid losing mob wars. There is a lot to do in this game. Working your way 
 up the ranks to Don of New York can take up to 40 hours to do, so there is plenty of replay value 
 to get through if you can handle the glitches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdechert
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 23, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  This is one of the most fun games I've played on the Wii. The controls are very intuitive and make 
 great use of the motion-sensing abilities of the platform. The hand-to-hand combat is fantastic 
 with the wiimote and nunchuck combined. The use of weapons is also done very well. This game is 
 much easier to play than Red Steel or Call of Duty, and much more fun. I found myself playing well 
 into the night trying to complete enough missions to become a made man. The plot layout parallels 
 the movie and makes the whole Godfather world come alive. This is definitely one of my top five 
 games for the Wii so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiman555
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 20, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  This style of free-roaming gameplay mixed with intricate missions (many derived from the film) 
 and contract hits or assasinations on enemies of the family creates an immersive, engaging, and 
 highly addictive style of gameplay. The freedom to explore the vast map of New York City, including 
 the districts of Little Italy, Brooklyn, Hell's Kitchen, Midtown, and New Jersey creates a sense 
 of freedom rarely found in games today -- in which a linear plot usually drives the story. Also, 
 this game is just a lot of fun to play. The endless pleasures of extorting businesses, taking down 
 rival family compounds and warehouses, and the ability to hire and call upon up to 5 crew members 
 to assist you in the mob wars which will emerge are addictive seemingly never-ending. The battle 
 system is intuitive and uses the wii-mote very well. The moment I shotgun-blasted an opposing mobster 
 through the second story window of a shop and saw him stumble backwards, shatter the window, and 
 fall to his demise, I knew this games attention to detail was immense.
  
  Throwing mobsters and store owners around with the wii-mote feels natural and the controls are 
 spot-on and utilize the remote to it's full capability.
  
  You should definitely pick up this game, because it is a lot of fun and highly addictive, giving 
 70+ hours of gameplay.
  MORE GAMES SHOULD BE MADE IN THIS STYLE. The Wii has such potential for greatness, I hope that 
 more games capitalize on the Wii's potential. I would love to play a Resident evil style game or 
 Rainbow Six stlye game with this type of control and freestyle gameplay and roaming. GET THIS GAME! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 19, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8/10: The Godfather BHE has the best gameplay of the numerous versions. The motion controls 
 make The Godfather feel truly intuitive and fresh, even if the game itself is around a year old 
 now. The previous versions of the Godfather seemed to recieve a little criticism for basically 
 being a GTA ripoff with the Godfather brand name stapled on. The new Wii controls keep BHE from 
 falling into that category, as these are undoubtedly some of the best controls I've ever seen in 
 an open world game. Strangling people feels great, as does headbutting, throwing people and executing 
 people. The only possible compliant about the controls is that it can be hard to get used to throwing 
 people in the exact direction that you want them to go in.
  Graphics: 7/10: This game seems to get an unfair rap in the graphics department. Sure, they're 
 not really that good, but certain parts of the game do look better than I expected them to, such 
 as the deforming car models. All in all, the graphics are passable, but not up to par with other 
 Wii games.
  Sound: 8/10: The sound is all good, from vehicles starting up to the terrified screams of the pedestrians 
 as my vicious mobster threatens them with a flaming 2x4. Some of the writing for the pedestrian's 
 dialouge is kind of stupid, but if you don't like it, you can always use it as an oppurtunity to 
 practice throwing your punches using motion control.
  Value: 10/10: The Godfather has a ton of stuff to do, from the story missions, the 100 movie reels 
 scattered throughout the city, sidequests from shopkeepers, and, my favorite, persuading unwilling 
 shopkeepers to give you a cut of their money. The ways in which you can torture the people in this 
 game are just plain cool. The most fun way I've found so far to do this is to break an electrical 
 box and shove a person into it (you'll have to see it for yourself) . Actually that's not really 
 persuasion, as the victim usually ends up dead, but I digress...
  Tilt: 9/10: Honestly, I dunno what tilt is supposed to mean. Overall, The Godfather BHE is the 
 best version of an already pretty good game. It's obviously pretty violent, so you might want to 
 keep it away from the young uns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMH74767
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  I still play this game, even though its been a year now out on the Wii, with games like No More 
 Heroes, Driver, Scarface, Godfather its still the one to beat for the Wii console in terms of a 
 "GTA" experience, now at $29.99, you gotta get it, now back to my original review. Ok, I know 
 this game came out on previous systems, and you know what, I don't care, this is my first time 
 playing this game & I should also say, I have never seen a Godfather movie. You're probably wondering 
 why I would buy this game without seeing the movie, the bottom line is that, this is a solid game 
 where you don't even have to see the movie.
  
  The Gameplay alone is awesome, this is definately one of those Wii games that you would have to 
 stand up and play, I really love all of the different moves you can do, such as throwing people 
 around, I especially like to throw them over ledges, toss them into oncoming traffic, & into fire 
 barrels, I haven't had this much fun since the first time I played GTA 3.
  
  Now, in terms of graphics, I don't see what the big deal is with it being awful, I guess if you 
 have different systems like the 360 or PS3, I can see why, but for a Wii game, I think its just 
 fine, granted there is some pop up, when driving, I don't think its that bad at all, the explosions 
 look great and are satisfying, its just a really fun game to play.
  
  This game really should be in everyones collection, you won't be disapointed." 
  On a final note 
 this game is a gem, I still have loads of fun with it, trust me you'll not be disappointed, the 
 acting is superb, and so is the music, A MUST BUY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solidsnake13_2
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 15, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather one of the most respectable man ever to live. The Godfather Blackhand Edition gives 
 you that respect. Blackhand is a brand new feature you do over 50 different excuations to your 
 enemies. Play as an outisider which you will start working your way to the Corleone Family. Its 
 a basic thing, you go and do mission to complete the story. But you also have to extort different 
 business and take business away from the families in New York. The voice acting is great, based 
 on all the characters who did the movie did the voices so the acting is an outsiding performance 
 in the game. Gameplay, you wiil work your way in Mafia business, you will learn how to take fight 
 other mobstors, take down warehouses, also even compounds of the other four families in New York. 
 So be ready in the game because its a war-zones. Also from doing side missions, you can do Hit 
 Contracts, favors for people also stop anything that might hurt your family business. The music 
 is very original you'll music from like the fights in The Godfather movie. The graphics are really 
 good. The characters look almost exactly like the actors and actress that did the movie. You can 
 also have hit-men squads to back you up for big operations. Such as taking compounds and warehouses. 
 Also you vendatta, you will have vendatta in the game, the more you fight with the other families 
 you can start a mob war between the two. Two ways to end it, blow up The enemy compound or have 
 a FBI Agent get the war off your back. Bribe FBI Agents and Cops to help you out on anythng. If 
 you enjoyed any classic Mob Movies then you will have a good time with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluffers623
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 14, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is really hard to describe other then it is just awesome. You are part of the Corleone 
 family where you must make your way up through the ranks, and become Don of NYC. The graphics on 
 this game are pretty good, but easily forgettable. The best quality of this game is the gameplay. 
 There are many things you can do while ur not doing any missions. You can kill innocent people 
 by stapping there necks, taking a shotgun and shooting them in the head point blank (fun to do 
 with cops) . You can strangle them, run over them, and do many other things. You can also kill mobsters, 
 cops, rob banks, extort merchents, warehouses, and rackets. This game also has some of the godfather 
 sceens in it like when Sonny dies at the toll, and the Khartoum horse sceen. This game is a must 
 buy if u like gta or godfather 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexyfatman24
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 13, 2007 11:15 pm PT
Review:  the godfather for the wii is a great game if you havent owned any of the previous games. some new 
 things that come with teh game is hiring crew and free mode shooting. In free mode shooting you 
 can use the wii's pointer to shoot the enemies. I rarely used it unless i wanted to destroy a car. 
 Having a crew member can help near the beginning of the game, but towards the end they just die 
 too easily. Other than those two things the game is pretty much the same. even the back-dated graphics 
 are the same. One very cool aspect of the game is the character customization. You can change almost 
 any part of the face. Overall this game was good if you havent played a godfather game before. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbags129
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 13, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather: Blackhand Edition is a very fun game to play. In no time, you'll be in with the 
 Corleone family going up the ranks in the family while competing with the other famlies in the 
 New York area. The graphics definitley are not the greatest, but some things like explosions actually 
 look very good. But if you look closely to some of the textures on walls and clothing they're very 
 blurry when looked at up close. But the graphics definitely are put beside the great gameplay. 
 It's definitely worth buying to add to your Wii collection. In my opinion it's the best Wii game 
 I have, and it's also my favorite game on Wii. The Godfather: Blackhand Edition for Wii is an offer 
 you can't refuse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emile144
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  You sit down, the game starts, unfolds infront of you. Many will adore the music, taken right out 
 of the film, the graphics acceptable but not perfect. The training mission starts: WOW! how cool 
 is this im grabbing him with my own hands!
  Unfortunately that feeling doesnt last long, and thats not because the game isnt long or you get 
 bored of it. Not at all, this game is quite long, complex and otehr than the main story has several 
 other side misssions and hits to do. Whatit's missing though is a shine . The gameplay is great 
 but soon it becomes usual and boring, as if ur just pressing buttons, soon you dont care about 
 flicking the wii mote and u just tilt it and move it as little as possible, after 20 hours , only 
 the greates fans keep playing.
  Many consider this game to be something like a port of san andreas with a few twitches. Well they're 
 right, u can buy safehouses do side missions, do main story missions, after a while you move to 
 a new area... very similar. However, can the old rover style cars of godfather stand up to beautiful 
 racing cars of san andreas.. well most people would say no. What Godfather is really missing is 
 small little details, small little additions. Nintendo promises patches for all of the wii games 
 in the future, that could potentially make this better. But for now its missing these little things, 
 like getting on a boat... a plane... aything but a car and ur feet. Also many players find it very 
 frustrating to not be able to jump. Even though you can vault over ledges, you cant just press 
 a button or raise the wii mote to go over, like u would to jump off a building... etc. These small 
 things often make the game feel very shallow.
  Thankfully this game has some otehr aspects which could attract you for a bit longer, you can extort 
 hop owners and get a daily pay, theres gang wars based on vendetta and storehouses that you can 
 bomb for money. Also a favorite of mine, armed robbery. This is usually done to banks and gets 
 you a decent amount of cash but can even be done in small stores, by smashing the cashier or if 
 your lucky blowing up the safe.
  Although not as good as it could have been, this is a decent game, a more mature title for the 
 lacking (for now at least) wii collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottglass
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 11, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  I just spent the last 13 hours playing this game with my nephew who was visting from college. What 
 a great game. The game has an excellent story which interweaves with the movie well. Definately 
 not for small kids, it's something the parents will want to play after the kids go to bed. Graphics 
 are good, the soundtrack is excellent. The game itself is packed with lots of action and things 
 to do. You won't get bored playing this. It also has a high replay value as you can choose two 
 paths to take to build your character. This definately fufills the need for the random act of violence 
 streak you need in a game now and then. If you already own a Godfather game for the XBox or a previous 
 console, Blackhand follows those very close with a few new bells and whistles, for example unlike 
 the xbox version, each family compound is unique in blackhand. There's also a nice side-story introduced 
 with Blackhand. All in all, it's well worth the money you put into it. I can see myself playing 
 for another few hours before I'm ready to grab the next game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EaaMees
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 10, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  I think the sound of the cars and guns are good but I am amazed by the graphics that are in my 
 mind very good and I like that the conversations in game are in the same graphic. The car crashes 
 are made more realistic which is a plus of course.
  One minus in the game is the gun pointing with the wii remote with is difficult but aiming with 
 the next target possibility is not aiming where you wanna... Plus is that you can speak to anybody 
 you want and fungirls aswell. Fun realistic exiting And its not an short game either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaMc34
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 9, 2007 2:17 am PT
Review:  I rented this game before purchasing it. I fell in love with it almost instantly. I liked that 
 you could modify your character, kind of like creating a Sim. You can change clothing style as 
 you earn money which is also a nice touch. The graphics in the game are not the best ever, but 
 they are not horrible either. The sound is great! Shootings, explosions, and voices sound clear 
 and realistic. The acting of course is cheesy and robotic.
  
  The Wii mote works well with the game's controls. I love throwing someone around or banging their 
 head on whatever is close by. Fighting someone requires you to move your arms. Manual aiming allows 
 you to use Wii mote as a gun. You can move the camera using the control pad on the Wii and the 
 Z button helps you adjust the camera so that it is behind you again. I had some trouble at first 
 executing some of the new moves (like choking a guy to death) but once you practice a bit all the 
 movements with the Wii work well.
  
  I don't know if you can adjust the difficulty or not (still trying to pass the game on the default 
 difficulty) , but the AI can be pretty easy and then pretty tough. I will say that having the cops 
 as part of your crew does help out big time in big shoot outs. I wish there was a multiplayer mode, 
 but the game itself is worth the price. There is plenty going on in the single player mode to keep 
 you busy for a while.... so many extortions, rackets, and hits and so little time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Zills-
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 8, 2007 11:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is extremely fun and if you get tired of doing missions you can go beat up some shop 
 keepers and earn some money. It has many great aspects and some of which are better then the GTA 
 series the main one is side quests other then missions you can do contract hits, beat up shop keepers 
 for some money, or destroy a drug house. Also the Fire is alot more realistic and the street lamps 
 have a cool shockwave when you hit them. This being said the graphics are still a little rough 
 but some of the nicest on Wii as of now. The sound is pretty good voice acting is really good. 
 But the main reason I bought this game was the motion controls that are amazing, you may think 
 Im sick but strangling someone with the Wii remote is more enjoyable then pushing x. This title 
 will not dissapoint GTA fans, Godfather fans, or free roam game fans this is a great title and 
 a must buy for someone who has never played The Godfather. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheik_n_Zelda
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2007 10:32 pm PT
Review:  http://www. projectcoe. com/nintendo/games/godfather_wii. html? var1=sc3
  
  There are times when a gamer can play a movie-licensed title without ever seeing the actual movie 
 and achieve a firm understanding as to what the film is all about. Now I know what you're probably 
 thinking, Movie-based videogames suck. I'm not trying to argue that though, as it's not the purpose 
 of this review. Instead, as I played the game this review surrounds, I couldn't help but flashback 
 to my days with GoldenEye 007. I played and beat that game before ever seeing the movie, but I 
 never would've had to in order to understand the plot. I can say the exact same thing about The 
 Godfather: Blackhand Edition for Wii. Of course I dont think the game delivers the entire plot 
 of the classic mobster series, but it does treat you to an action-packed, open-ended experience 
 that is narrated well.
  
  GoldenEye is considered amongst millions to be one of the best movie-licensed games. I am a part 
 of that crowd, and I find that Godfather joins it in a very positive fashion. At the beginning 
 of the game, you witness the death of a high-ranking Corleone official through the eyes of his 
 one and only son. The Don of the family, easily recognizable by any Godfather fan, catches you 
 before you take in too much of the tragedy and promises that when you come of age, you will exact 
 appropriate vengeance for your loss.
  
  The real activity starts off with a few training missions, as the Don has one of his close friends, 
 Luca, save you from a group of punks and teach you the ways of the mob. This includes the basics 
 of hand-to-hand combat, firing your weapon, and driving. While the game somewhat controls you for 
 these events, you eventually become free to do as you please. The beauty of The Godfather is there 
 being SO much that can be done, roughly 30 hours' worth in fact. Players can progress the story 
 through missions, extort businesses by force or friendship, or even take some hit contracts. The 
 choices are yours and yours alone, so you control how you enjoy the game.
  
  The best part of Blackhand Edition is how EA implemented motion control. There are a number of 
 gestures that you can do, and most allow you to feel like you're really making your character execute 
 them. Whether it's grabbing a hold of someone, cranking up a massive punch or tossing enemies from 
 a roof, it's all ever-so-satisfying. You may encounter some instances in which the game doesn't 
 do exactly what you want, but it's generally nothing to be concerned over. Complimenting the gesture 
 system are legitimate RPG features that allow you to strengthen the various attributes of your 
 Corleone. This can be used to boost your negotiation influence, your strength in fist fights, your 
 relationship with the law, and several others.
  
  Commanding vehicles is another significant part of the adventure, and it's also one heck of a simple 
 job. You control your 1940s transportation with the nunchuk analog stick and use one of four other 
 buttons to take care of acceleration, braking, entering/leaving and power sliding. It may take 
 a little time to become used to since you're not confined to a two-handed controller, but it eventually 
 feels perfectly natural. The same goes for gun fighting. Most casual gamers are intimidated by 
 shooters, but Godfather on Wii really makes it worthwhile. Granted the auto targeting system can 
 rather suck when it focuses too much on a foe's shoulder or kneecap, but the system still works 
 rather well. You draw your weaponry with C on the nunchuk and either hold Z to target someone, 
 or press + on the Wii remote to enter free-aim mode, which allows you to control an onscreen reticule. 
 Both methods prove useful over the course of the game.
  
  Another aspect that helps bring this mobster experience to life is the voice work. Some of it may 
 sound a little over-the-top, but every single major character is unique and delivers an authentic 
 performance. Simply hearing Don Corleone himself is enough to make the heart of any Godfather fan 
 flutter with the happy. It's a great job all-around for this package, and I commend EA for their 
 efforts. Just watch out, as the language tends to be on the vulgar side, so the younger ones should 
 take a step back. The effects add a nice punch to the endless destruction as well. While nothing 
 omits from the remote speaker, all the guns, vehicles and explosions draw you in and help you feel 
 like you're a true part of the action. There are a few classical tunes and themes from the Godfather 
 present, and they do their job, even if not proving all that memorable. If anything, they help 
 to fill in the gaps when nothing crazy is going on.
  
  We've come to the part where I discuss how this porting job fared in the respect of delivering 
 on the aesthetic surface. Unfortunately, this is the area in which The Godfather: Blackhand Edition 
 ultimately fails to meet expectation. The game's characters are modeled well-enough and the mobster 
 outfits that you see all over the place help to distinguish everything, but in the grand scheme, 
 GBE just doesn't look too hot. Buildings look rather generic, with a good deal of cross-repetition 
 with the different businesses that you can extort, and what you might expect in the detailing comes 
 up a bit short, as the overall atmosphere simply looks bland. It also doesn't help that there are 
 clipping issues with vehicles and people being caught where they shouldn't be, occasional frame 
 rate drops and very rigid rendering when it comes to objects that just 'pop up' in the distance. 
 All the rest (like the pleasant special effects) is solid, but if you're one that wants to drool 
 over pretty pictures, GBE will disappoint you greatly.
  
  It seems that EA has discovered that this generation is NOT the same as the previous. No longer 
 can they create software for every platform and put as minimal effort as possible behind each job. 
 Each console is unique, which requires every release to have much more invested into it this time 
 around in order to achieve eventual success. Thus far we've seen Madden 07, SSX Blur and Tiger 
 Woods, all with impressive gesture-based manipulation with the Wii controllers. Now we have The 
 Godfather: Blackhand Edition, ultimately a port of the Xbox game with motion-control added, but 
 still something that Wii owners can actually be proud of. If you're looking for plausible mature-rated 
 content on Nintendo's current generation system, then that top dollar investment may not be so 
 unreasonable. We need continued third party support, so pony up the dough for the Corleones and 
 EA's efforts, they deserve it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supafly43218
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 4, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Well, to start off, the gameplay is simply stellar. You could walk around and just hold on to guys 
 and try every fighting move there is and never get bored. The wii controls are SPOT ON and are 
 100% accurate. Shooting is suprisingly fun as well. The character models looks great during cut 
 scenes, and the particle effects like explosions and fire look next-gen. Voice acting is just absolutely 
 perfect as well. Unfortunately, the only downfall on the game is graphics, but once you get over 
 that you'll realize that its all about how FUN the game is, not how close it looks to ps3 (cuz 
 it doesn't.) This is a MUST HAVE for any wii owner, its gameplay is unrivaled! Just don't get angry 
 when you expect xbox360 graphics and it doesn't deliver as you wanted. Games are for having fun, 
 right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: General-Zod
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 3, 2007 5:50 am PT
Review:  First off, yes, I know this is EA's version of GTA... fine, I'm OK with that. I have never played 
 GTA, so there will be no comparison in this review.
  
  This game is excellent in a number of different ways. I really enjoy the complete open ended nature 
 of this game. Going where you want and choosing exactly which business to extort or when to jump 
 into the main story is enjoyable, and really feels more like you are in control of the story. But 
 where the game truly shines is in the controls. In this game, every motion feels intuitive after 
 an hour or so. If you want to throw a right jab, jab at the screen with the Wiimote. Want to push 
 someone off a ledge after grabbing them, pull them over there and push them over by mimicking the 
 motion.
  
  These are just a few of the moves that go right along with the natural motion. This adds a level 
 of experience that no other game I have played offers.
  
  There are a number of side missions (hits or favors) that are a little deeper than just going and 
 killing someone. Specific ways of killing someone will get you large bonuses (and by large, I mean 
 standard kill gets you $2,500, special kill gets you $10,000 and triple the respect points, so 
 it is substantial) . This involves things like making it look like an accident , which really adds 
 to the the feeling of the game.
  
  The big complaint you will hear is about pop in , the far off objects (like buildings) suddenly 
 appearing on the horizon. This has never bothered me much, but it is worth mentioning for those 
 who are bothered by it. I never put much stock in it, because if I have a choice of great game 
 play with OK graphics or great graphics with OK gameplay... I will go with great game play every 
 time.
  
  The M rating is well earned. Swearing (including the F-bomb ) , violence, and sexism is present 
 throughout. So be warned.
  
  Overall, it is a purchase that was worth every penny, so if you have not played it on the other 
 systems, go out and grab it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Judah6
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  This game deserves more than 7.6 because of what you can do in this game, This game I was able 
 to pick a bat or pipe and bash the person over the head also I can kill incesent people for no 
 reason at all and this is difinitely better GTA in anyway the graphics is petty good to also unlike 
 GTA you can talk to anybody you can go up to the person talk then kill them anytime you want plus 
 I like the fact you have to actually move you hands side to side to fight so anyone looking for 
 a game when you a take a car or pick up any weapon and bust them over the head this is your game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigcalkenobi
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 14, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  THe Godfather is the game that most movie videogame adaptions wish they could be. It takes the 
 story from the movies and adds to it and makes a better understanding of the films. The game is 
 basically following in the shadows of the film as the character you portray works for the don. 
 It takes the snadbox game play from GTA and changes it a bit. It has a whole ranking system wheree 
 you work your way up in the family (Mob) .
  
  The Wii controls worked suprisingly well with the game. They pick up really well when you are swinging 
 your fist, and the aiming also works fairly well. The Wii-mote is pretty responsive when you swing 
 it around. To do ertain punches or grabs you do certain movements or hold B while using a certain 
 gesture.
  
  The real downside is the graphics. They are up to par with the PS3 almost, but really the graphics 
 on the PS3 are horrible cfor its capibility. THe Wii and PS3 look like ported versions of the Xbox 
 title as far as graphics go.
  
  there is quite a few side missions aside from the story and leveling up and everything will definitly 
 take you a while. There is plenty in this game to do and may take you somewhere at 20 hours or 
 more to get them all done.
  
  All in all its a pretty good additon to the Wii. The controls and sound are solid. The graphics 
 are questionable, but there is enough gore in this game to have some people shutting up about the 
 wii kiddy konsole debate. This is definitly rent worthy and even a fairly solid title to buy if 
 you feel like buying a Wii game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 31, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Yea, this game is a great game and has many creative ways to kill people. I know this game will 
 sell good for the wii because it is totally sweet. Some many fun ways to kill people with the wiimote. 
 It is fun for a long time because I really like it. Buy this game its a must have for any Mafia 
 fan. Try this game but if you don't like it then buy a life you sucker. Gun executions are great, 
 new missions make this game the best wii game so far. Try this game out as soon as you can. Graphics 
 are better than PS2's and xboxs so this is a must have. Must have . Personally I am not a big mobster 
 gamer but this is a very fun game, 1 thing thats bad are the graphics. There are plenty of great 
 executions so I game this game a .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 1, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  So everyone has their own GTA. Activision, Microsoft, and no EA in the Godfather. It's kind of 
 patetic how much they rip off the GTA series. The only difference is that it takes place during 
 the award winning movie and during the 1930's. That's about it. You still have missions that you 
 get assigned to, a safe house, and even when your iced you end up at the ER and they charge you. 
 I'm surprised that EA wasn't sued by Rockstar how much they blatently ripped off the GTA series. 
 Now onto the actual game. The graphics are ok. Most of the building and bodies of people are textured. 
 The facial expressions are well done and the animation is pretty fluid. I'd have to say that compared 
 to the GTA series, The Godfather has better graphics. The music is pretty good, not to great, I 
 mean it's not something that I would pick up on CD or anything, but it suits the game. The sounds 
 are standard action sounds, and nothing seems out of place. The voice acting is pretty good. The 
 actors they got the accents and the acting from the movies right on. I give them props for that. 
 The major difference between the Wii verison is the controls. EA adapted them rather well to the 
 Wiimote and nunchuck. Like when you punch, you swing your Wiimote (like in the Wii Sports Boxing 
 game) . The controls are pretty straight forward and responsive, but they don't really suck you 
 into the game play like other Wii titles do. All and all the game has plenty or replay, but you 
 have to be a GTA fan (which I am not) . It takes stuff right from the movie which is cool. Plus 
 EA really tried to modify for the Wii. If you haven't played the prior installments, this is still 
 just a renter. So sit back and enjoy the violence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlastorX
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  You know, I wasn't all that cool with the GTA type games. They weren't really my cup of tea! Although 
 I knew how fun those games were. But something was different about The Black Edition! Perhaps it's 
 the conrol scheme! I mean, the hand motion you have to utilize, it's cool! It's as if, you were 
 actually beating the crap outtah the mobs. I had a blast with this game. The sound and music is 
 also a plus. Who doesn't lke that feeling of you driving around little Italy while the Godfather 
 theme song plays? It gives me goose bumps man ^_^ The only problem I have with this agme are the 
 graphics! Although the textures on the faces are alright, some of the parts, are alittle blah! 
 Not that good, but not that bad either! It felt as if it could've been done better! Over all, sweet 
 game! This is that one game I was waiting for when I fist got the wii! And it was very satisfying! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asscl0wn
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 26, 2007 10:34 pm PT
Review:  fantastic GTA like game just a better stroy graphics arent as powerful but not so bad that it hinders 
 the game any. For a game this soon after launch done this well it deserves some credit 2nd best 
 game for the wii until paper mario comes.
  
  If you like GTA at the very least give it a rent. EA is showing some dedication to the wii unlike 
 some of the other developers who are making cheap and fast thrills. This helps destroy the idea 
 that the wii is only for kiddies. The wait for the wii drought to end is no longer this is a solid 
 game get it. Ive been rather addicted to it. It can use some tweaks here and there but overall 
 for this early in the life of the console a great game that you shouldnt pass up unless your poor. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adventureseeker
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 26, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Saying that this game is good is an understatement. This game is amazing!
  If you think you will be turned off because its godfather, then your wrong. This game is exactly 
 like the movies. If you dont know the characters then dont worry because the game introduces you 
 to them. At the beginning you get to customize a character whose dad was a mobster and was killed. 
 The point of the game is simple. Get revenge on those bastards who killed your father and work 
 your way up to the Don. This game has the gta free roam feel which is great because this game wouldnt 
 suit anything else. The controls are good and work well, but take some getting used to. This game 
 will last you a long time with all the different collecting and take over jobs to do. This game 
 also has a bunch of cool features like having a crew, planting car bombs and all the upgrade which 
 gives it some what of a rpg type feel. All in all, this game is amazing and in my opinion the third 
 best wii game out. (Zelda being #1, and WarioWare being #2) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rstyles22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  It is a fun game on the Wii.... keeps you moving all the time, no reason to be bored. The motion 
 controls are done really well, very responsive.. The graphics could have been done better. It does 
 not look like next generation graphics. The game basically is like playing GTA in the 1940's. You 
 work your way up from an outsider into the family. In case you need more tutorials on how to use 
 the controls, you can always go check on the options menu....... I have play the game on the Xbox 
 360 and I like the Wii version way better. I like the idea that Nintendo is bringing more mature 
 games to the Wii ... hopefully they do not stop here 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 26, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  Im suprized how well this game works with the wii mote. once you paly a sandbox game on the wii 
 you can never go back. The storey has you a boy grows up to avinge his fathers death so he joins 
 the mob. You start off a little slwo in terms of mission wise. But the game picks up soon. Combat 
 in this game is awesome. Hold d0own z (to lock on) and swing the wii mote and numchuck to deliver 
 punches. Toss the motes to throw, bring them close to your bodey to do a headbut, or my favrit 
 move chocking, wich requiers holding the motes clsoe to your bodey and moveing them. Shooting takes 
 time and practice to master. Even with your hand doing the aiming geting that dealy shot is tricky. 
 Like GT said you'll probley do strangeling most of the time. Theres also stores to take over, kil 
 lthe other faimly garding the place smack the shop keep around to get your money. my only complaint 
 about this is i wanted more stores theres a good amount but it's so fun i wanted more. Driveing 
 tricky here as well, you use the analog stick to steer but it fells loose, almost like your a drunk 
 driver you'll be surveing around. In case your wondering yes you can beat up inocents. One more 
 thing about the cops unlike gta you'l lhave a heat metter, just cause you get arrested or killed 
 means it goes down, not all the way. You can bride the cops this time but talknig to them, thanks 
 EA. It's a great action game and a good buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Explosion_Man
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 25, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is great definatly a step forward for the Wii with its more mature theme. GREAT controls 
 let You utilize the wii remote perfectly (though you may want to turn the sensitivity down a notch) . 
 the graphics aren't Stellar but there not horrible. Not horrible as in no there are no blurry faces 
 but not Stellar as in blurry environment textures and bland looking city. Lack of load times is 
 great meaning you'll never be stopped in mid action. but back to the controls, persision aiming 
 is awesome capping people in the knee is fun the executions are great and the corrolation between 
 Wii'mote and the action is what we've all been waiting for. For example you pull out your trusty 
 ol' baseball bat and swing from right to left ..... so will he you swing from left to right he does 
 the same put the remote and nun chuck together rise above your head and smash down.... Guess what...... He 
 does that too! Sigh If only Zelda TP had done the same we would have seen a a 9.5 on the old gaming 
 score board by the good folks and Gamespot. as for gameplay theres plenty to do and see as you 
 rise through the ranks of the Corleone family such as hit missions, extortion mob wars, compound 
 raids and much more so you won't be trading it in anytime soon. all in all this game is truley 
 a step in the right direction for Wii and we can only expect to get better from here on out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FunnyX
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  This game had a great basis and/or platform to build of off. A film series some say is the best 
 of all time. This game is far from the normal movie based games which normaly lack any creativity 
 what so ever and are what I like to call 'cookie cutter' games. When i say 'cookie cutter' games 
 i mean games which are made then migrated to every platform out there; which normaly means the 
 have the some what standard graphics, controls, features and gameplay. Godfather for the wii lacks 
 in some areas but made up for it in others. The Graphics are way definatly sub-par, but it makes 
 up for it in gameplay and controls. The most noticable part of this game are the controls, which 
 I will explain. Fighting Controls: The best control type of the game has to be the melee attacks, 
 you lock on with the Z Button, then punch with either your left or right, the controls are pretty 
 sensetive and pick up the punches being thrown supprisingly well. You can throw straight punches 
 as well as punches where you continue through. Once you have the target locked on you can grab 
 onto him with the B Button, and continue to punch him, head butt him, or strangle him. Also you 
 can throw your controler to the left and right simulating slamming the target up against walls 
 and slamming the targets head on tables and so forth.
  
  Driving Controls: The driving in the game is definatly standard. You use your nunchuck to steer, 
 your Z Button for breaks, and your B Button for gas. Very standard straight forward and easy to 
 get used to.
  
  Shooting Controls: The gun fighting in this game is definatly challenging as very entertaining. 
 Since this game is generaly based off a lock on and fight system, the aiming is more for percision 
 shooting like aiming for the arms (for disarming) , legs (for imobilize) , and head (for instant 
 kill) . But there is a free-aim button so you can shoot without having to lock on. Once you lock 
 onto the target you uses your remote (or Wii-Mote) to percision aim where you want to shoot him. 
 I know what your thinking... what?! if your locked on you can't miss?! this isn't true, they actually 
 made the aimer extend off the body slitely so it is possible to miss, even though it is hard to 
 miss, when your dealing with multiple enemies in the open it is not unheard of to waist a whole 
 clip on the air next to your target. I speak from experience :P
  
  All in All its definatly a game worth adding to your collection if you like ground breaking wii 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shark1100
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2007 9:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing!
  32 new weapons.
  cleaned up graphics,
  better lighting,
  2 new cars,
  a new family ,
  more missions,
  and more rackets to take over.
  
  The control 
 scheme is great and very responsive!
  Like to strangle you flick the Wii remote and nunchuck left outward then inward to grab the the 
 neck then shake violently to strangle the person.
  
  The character design is amazing, the environments may be a little bland but thats alright its suppose 
 to give you that mobster feeling, and the textures on the cars are great!
  
  Even though i wished that the new family owned businesses and the new weapons were not just upgrades 
 its still a total amazing game.
  
  This is a definite buy in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quiksilver022
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 24, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  It's the moment many of us have been waiting for.. The first Mature Wii game! And even more importantly, 
 what we've all been wondering: Will it work? The answer is absolutely! EA has put together a fantastic 
 little package with the new Wii exclusive 'The Godfather Blackhand Edition', which has very fun 
 and accurate controls. Throwing punches, kicking, dragging, beating and pushing is a breeze, the 
 only small bug with the controls is that shooting can sometimes be a bit finicky, but for the most 
 part, it's pretty easy to get in a good headshot or two! Graphics-wise, I thought it looked very 
 nice (with component cables of course) . The most detail goes into the Don himself, and your character 
 especially (which you can customize to your pleasure) . Backgrounds, environments and side characters 
 receive far less detail though, not that it affects the gameplay or anything. The cut scenes and 
 movies are awesome and very entertaining, and the audio is excellent, especially the voice-overs, 
 which are very well done. Overall, I would officially call this the second-best Wii game yet, and 
 I strongly recommend all Wii owners buy it! It's a great start to the new Mature side of the Wii, 
 and supporting it will only encourage developers to create more for us! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _rizzle_
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 24, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  I was originally skeptical in buying this game (i bought it today) , however from the moment i threw 
 the first punch, i was amazed at how good the game really is. I believe the ratings were way too 
 low and the reviwers aimed too much at the bad things and not at the great things of this game. 
 I recommend the game to any wii owner. The best thing about this game, is the close combat. Throwing 
 punches have never felt so good with a controller (yes, including wii sports) . The aiming is good 
 on this game especially when you opt to take out certain body parts of an opponent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GumbieuK
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 24, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  This is a brilliant game and first thing's first, Gamespot's comment about the graphics leave a 
 bit to be desired is complete rubbish also their comment later on in the review you'll see a lot 
 of blurry surfaces, jerky animations, and clipping also is rubbish, ive scaled the entire game 
 and have seen very very little of this, maybe once or twice at the most. Wii game's will never 
 score high on gamespot because they don't have Mind boggling graphics, regardless of the game play.
 
  
  Anyway back to the game, the game all round is brilliant, the controls are very responsive and 
 mimic real life actions, throwing someone actually requires you to handle the remote like your 
 actually throwing somebody, same with punching (as you would expect) along with other things. They 
 respond very well and appear to be mapped well on very few occasions have i noticed them to be 
 unresponsive (Maybe 4-5 times in the 20+ hours i have on my save file)
  
  The voice acting in this game is brilliant, really sets the mood of the game, along with the music 
 and cut scenes.
  
  The aiming aspect of the game is simple yet brilliant at the same time, you do not have to focus 
 on trying to do too many things at one time, with the auto aim all that is required is a up and 
 down motion to decide just what section of the body you want too shoot. The unlocks and increases 
 attributes are a great feature, each time you receive a new point it's applied to make your character 
 that much better, these include, increased attack speed/power, increased health / health regeneration 
 rate, accuracy, shortened reload times, increased speed whilst crouched and much much more.
  
  The story is brilliant as are the missions and as you progress it gets more and more difficult, 
 with some great aspects thrown in such as Hits where your hired to kill somebody and receive bonus 
 cash and point if it's done in a specific way.
  
  All in all it's a great, solid game and is worth anyone's money. A great addition to anybody's 
 Wii collection. A MUST get, even if you have not played any previous Godfather games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fox3586
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 23, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  I will keep this short and simple. Godfather for the Wii is a blast to play. Beating people up 
 has never been so much fun. The controls are fun and intuitive. The only one I have trouble with 
 is strangling (I always end up headbutting the guy instead) . The voice acting is excellent the 
 story is smart, and keeps you coming back for more. There is a lot to do but most of it is the 
 same thing over and over again. The biggest problem is the graphics. Main character models look 
 sharp. lipsyncing is spot on, and particle effects are impressive. Everything else, really depressing. 
 The road is bare, the streets are all the same. Everybuilding looks identical to the last one. 
 Godfather for the Wii is about the story and the enjoyment of hands on fighting. Its not a good 
 sub for GTA though because driving isn't entertaining, the graphics are weak at best, and because 
 most side missions are the same thing.
  
  Gameplay: The reason you should get this game. A blast to play with the Wii Remote
  
  Graphics: 
 The reason you should NOT get this game. Any X360 fan will turn their nose up at this game. (Mafia 
 from '02 looks WAY better than this does)
  
  Sound: Voice acting rocks. Everything else was forgotten.
  
  Value: If you want to fight, but 
 now. Otherwise wait for a price drop (It probably won't be long) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xvwvx
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 23, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  When I heard that The Godfather was coming to Wii, I was pretty excited. When I heard that the 
 Wii version would be called Blackhand Edition and would feature Wii-exclusive features, I was even 
 more excited. I own an Xbox 360 as well as a Wii, so when it comes to multiplatform games, I have 
 a tough choice to make each time. I chose wisely.
  
  The game doesn't impress with it's visuals. That's what the 360 is for. Where this game shines 
 is the gameplay. Yeah, you've heard that over and over. The Wii has bad graphics, but the game 
 is fun. Well, if it's true, what's the problem? I've always enjoyed sandbox games. Grand Theft 
 Auto: Vice City is one of my favorite games of all time. This game is right up there. It's loads 
 of fun. The haters will always hate, but the bottom line is the game is fun. The concept is good. 
 You walk around New York, take over businesses, collect money from people, do special jobs, bring 
 down rival gangs, and also complete the main mission. Or you can just go around beating people 
 for no reason. That's all well and good. But it's how you do it that really makes this game fun. 
 Hitting X or A to throw a punch is fine. But actually grabbing someone and slamming them against 
 a wall or a table, or throwing them off a building... THAT'S fun. The Wii controller takes the 
 action further. It does take a while to get used to it, and sometimes you don't get the response 
 you want, but overall it feels good to punch someone. A lot more fun than button-smashing. The 
 shooting is good too, but also at times iffy. But that's ok because running in with a baseball 
 bad is a lot more fun than shooting someone. But this isn't just a typical GTA-clone. There's a 
 nifty RPG aspect to this game. Kill someone with a gun and you might earn some respect. Break someone's 
 neck, and you really get respect. Earn enough respect, and you get to level up . Increase your 
 skills. Anything from faster reloading to more health, to better intimidation. Pick wisely! The 
 storyline is solid (so far) , but the real draw to any open-ended game like this (and like GTA or 
 Oblivion) is running around and not doing the main mission. I'm really enjoying running around 
 shooting rival gang members, or running over them with cars for a Road Rage Execution. Beating 
 up women, shooting cops, or planting car bombs - things that would cause John Thompson to have 
 a conniption - are all part of a days work in this game.
  
  Something that the Wii has done for multiplatform games is made them more fun. Doing the action 
 is a lot more fun than pressing buttons. Aiming with the controller and pressing the trigger to 
 shoot is a lot more fun than wiggling an analog stick and pressing O to shoot. This game is fun, 
 and any sandbox fan looking for a little bit more than just another sandbox game should pick this 
 up. It's definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyanD2291
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 22, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Though the game is very similar to the GTA style, the game's storyling is very enterataining, i 
 mean, who wouldn't want to be a hitman for the Corleone Family. The use of the Wii's control system 
 actaully lets you feel like you're kicking the crap out of a rival gang member or a business owner 
 you're extorting from. The side missions can repetive but the main story missions make up for it. 
 Overall the game is well worth buying. It offers alot of gameplay and fun with the Wiimote. If 
 you can get past the horrible graphics and buggy shooting controls, the game is a must have for 
 someone who is tired of all the silly Wii games out. This game offers a much need dose of mature 
 entertainment of the Wii console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emt3575
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 22, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  What happened with the graphics? I know the Wii has a hard time competing against the 360 and the 
 PS3 but they could at least try. Honestly I love the game, I beat it on my friends xbox when it 
 first came out and I counted the days for it to come out. I knew I liked it from the get go, but 
 I have to come back to the graphics! How can I set and play this when my roommate is one door down 
 playing Rainbow Six Vegas on his 360, and my friends have PS3's! Come on Nintendo I stayed true 
 to you don't let me down anymore! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigatron
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 22, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  I had my doubts about a port of a year-old game. The Godfather is a GTA-style game that takes the 
 plot of the classic mobster saga, and even goes a bit beyond. When it hit the other consoles last 
 year, I thought it was a pretty decent game with good fan service. Now a year later, EA has released 
 it on the wii with a different control scheme and a load of new content. And you know what? Out 
 of all of the versions, Blackhand Edition easily is the best one.
  
  You make your own gangster using a pretty deep mobface character creation system. You can adjust 
 their body, facial features, hair, etc. Your character ties into the plot, and you'll be doing 
 missions like planting the horse head and protecting the Don on his way to the hospital. It really 
 sucks you into the world of the Godfather, using authentic music and characters. The graphics are 
 a bit crisper than last-gen, and overall is a decent-looking wii title. The original actors reprise 
 Don Corleone, Sonny, and Tom Hagen, although Al Pacino as Michael is absent... voice and likeness. 
 But that shouldn't stop you from enjoying the story. Like I said before, it's a GTA-style game, 
 so you'll be running around New York jacking cars, shooting people, robbing banks, etc. You can 
 take over DOZENS of businesses to increase profits. As you progress through missions, your rank 
 &amp; experience will increase, giving you more abilities. These skills can range from planting 
 car bombs to calling in hit squads. It's really awesome to see your character progress (you can 
 even become the Don himself) . The wii (along with the ps3) version gets a whole lot more content, 
 like a couple dozen new missions, improved upgrades, and much more. But the wii-specific controls 
 REALLY make this version stand out.
  
  Using the wiimote &amp; chuck, you'll be in complete control. From simple things like opening doors, 
 to more fancy things like execution moves. The controls are absolutely sublime. Manual aiming feels 
 precise and satisfying. Every single action in the game just feels better on the wii. The melee 
 combat is handled well, and reloading with the chuck feels good. The one complaint that all the 
 critics whine about is the camera's controlled by the d-pad, but it's a very minor issue. Instead 
 of tacking on some half-assed controls, EA has gone the extra mile and made the game even more 
 immersive.
  
  In closing, I really recommend this one to fans of GTA or action games. If you didn't play the 
 crap out of previous versions, there's no reason for you not to give this one a chance. It's a 
 deep and enjoyable experience, and it's also pretty long. EA has shown a great example of how to 
 make a 3rd-party game better on the Wii. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
