-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The House of the Dead 2 & 3 Return
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/houseofthedead2and3return/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Sega finally nailed IR shooting on the Wii.
 The terrible but awesome voice acting is intact.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 House of the Dead 3 suffers from an inconsistent frame rate.
 Doesn't really include enough to justify its price.
 Having to earn extra health and continue options by failing is frustrating.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 28, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.6, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 610 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Genre: Light Gun Shooter
Date: Mar 11, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The "dogs of the AMS" make their move to the Wii in this fun but brief port of the on-rails arcade 
 shooters. 

  The House of the Dead games are gleefully fun on-rails shooters that drop you knee-deep in the 
 undead with a loaded weapon and encourage you to aim for the head. The series places a great deal 
 of emphasis on throwing unconventional monsters at you -- such as zombie mermen, zombie frogs, zombie 
 bats, zombie plants, and zombie ninjas -- while dazzling your intellect with so-bad-it's-good voice 
 acting and a ridiculous story pretentiously in love with the Major Arcana of the Tarot deck. Although 
 Sega has finally managed to perfect IR shooting on the Wii with this bundle of two of the series' 
 games, House of the Dead 2 &amp; 3 Return is ultimately a short, simple port of aging games that 
 suffers from an inconsistent frame rate and isn't quite worth the asking price.  

  House of the Dead 2 picks up two years after the mysterious mansion incident from the first game, 
 in which the mad Dr. Curien released an army of the undead. Once again you take the role of an 
 agent of the AMS, a secret international agency that investigates paranormal activity, and you 
 are dispatched to Venice, Italy, where fellow agent G has gone missing. Naturally, the undead are 
 to blame, and you must shoot your way through wave after wave of zombies and the occasional boss 
 to save the city, all while trying not to harm the innocent civilians. As with its predecessor, 
 your actions will determine the path that you travel to your destination, and it will take multiple 
 play-throughs to see everything.  

           Don't get bit, or you'll suffer like G did.      

  This particular half of the collection 
 offers a near-perfect port of the arcade edition and several extra game modes, including training 
 missions, a Boss Battle mode, and Original Mode, which lets you augment yourself with items to 
 increase your firepower, number of credits, and more. These are welcome additions, but they don't 
 really add very much to this severely aging and extremely short zombie-disassembly line.  

  House of the Dead 3 takes place a full 19 years later, in a postapocalyptic world infested with 
 the undead. This time, you'll play as G and Lisa Rogan as they battle their way through the research 
 facility that served as ground zero for the outbreak that overwhelmed the planet. You're armed 
 a bit more heavily (combat shotguns) , and thankfully there are no civilians to rescue. Instead, 
 you occasionally have to save your partner for the chance to earn bonus health. Other changes include 
 the ability to select your next level, which alters the path that you travel, and a scoring system 
 that awards you a letter grade based on your performance.  

  The only extras for House of the Dead 3 are a Time Attack mode, in which your health is replaced 
 with a countdown timer that increases with enemy kills, and an all-new Extreme Mode that is harder 
 but includes a melee attack that you can use to defend. Though the graphics update from House of 
 the Dead 2 is dramatic, part 3 still features outdated visuals and in addition suffers from inexplicable 
 frame-rate issues that crop up occasionally and can bring the action to a temporary halt.  

           A zombie security guard? You've got to be kidding.      

  Keeping in line with their 
 origins as arcade shooters, both games are extremely difficult, and bosses require near-pinpoint 
 accuracy with shots to defeat. Luckily, Sega has finally managed to perfect the use of the Wii 
 Remote's IR pointing ability in House of the Dead 2 &amp; 3 Return by including a calibration system 
 that makes it more accurate than ever. Ideally, you'll want to play using a gun attachment (not 
 included) , but using the remote alone is a perfectly valid option. Unfortunately, Sega also made 
 the decision to limit your number of credits, which can be incredibly frustrating when you're just 
 about to defeat a final boss and find yourself unable to continue. Although infinite continues 
 would certainly only harm the experience of the game, it would be nice to have the option of starting 
 with more credits or health in the beginning; instead, the game rewards your failure by bumping 
 up your ability to scale these values in the options every time you die.  

  More than a decade later, House of the Dead 2 and 3 continue to be fun and entertaining games, 
 especially when played with a friend. However, their brevity (a skilled player can easily beat 
 either game in significantly less than an hour) , a lack of compelling additional content, and the 
 strange frame-rate issues make House of the Dead 2 &amp; 3 Return a difficult purchase to justify, 
 even at its $30 asking price.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (39 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: thebuckeye08
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 19, 2009 6:02 am PT
Review:  The part i liked about this game was for its you use just the wii remote, point and shoot as simple 
 as that. Its better if you play with someone else, because you will have alot more fun.
  
  Its very challenging at times, but if you die, game over they give you more lifes and a extra continue, 
 so that was nice, but still very challenging.
  
  What i liked best about it was that on 3 you can change the amount of violence, which i have never 
 seen anything like that before.
  
  A very bloody game at times, and well for me its really the more blood the more fun.
  
  Why 
 not a 10, because 10 is perfect and everyone here and me know this game is not perfect.
  
  Whats it missing?
  
  Extra stuff to do after completing, or just there from the start, like 
 mini games, but they do have kinda a boss rush mode, but all you need to do is face 1 of the bosses, 
 so why not have wifi for that?
  That would of bumped this game up quite the bit.
  
  Not a must own but a should own game for all wii owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nypd66
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2009 6:32 pm PT
Review:  This light gun game is very cool. The objetive in the game kill and shoot as much zombies as you 
 can and for the house of the dead 2 save the hostages. Tell you the truth im not allowed to play 
 rated M games so i can only play this when im at arcades. In the house of the dead 2 you use a regular 
 handgun and in the house of the dead 3 you use a shotgun. But if you dont have a Wii and if you 
 have a dreamcast or an pc you could get it for that system. If you like sega the creator of The 
 House of the Dead seires you should try these other games. Virtua cop. And Ghost Squad. House of 
 the Dead 2 picks up two years after the mysterious mansion incident from the first game, in which 
 the mad Dr. Curien released an army of the undead. Once again you take the role of an agent of 
 the AMS, a secret international agency that investigates paranormal activity, and you are dispatched 
 to Venice, Italy, where fellow agent G has gone missing. Naturally, the undead are to blame, and 
 you must shoot your way through wave after wave of zombies and the occasional boss to save the 
 city, all while trying not to harm the innocent civilians. As with its predecessor, your actions 
 will determine the path that you travel to your destination, and it will take multiple play-throughs 
 to see everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sportsmen2008
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  It seems like a lot of the reviews where all over the place on this game. I would agree with a 
 lot of the people who had the 6 or the 6.5 for this game. 
  
  I just got done with RE UC which is far superior to this game in every way, its not even a far 
 comparison. 
  
  The graphics in HD 2 are just horrible, they do not seem even on par with the arcade version. The 
 music is ok but really nothing special. The game does not really play well since you cannot avoid 
 attacks you need to kill everyone. However this is easier said then done. 
  
  HD 3 is much better. The game play seems much crisper and the targeting work much better in my 
 opinion. The graphics are far superior and give the game a decent look. The music is once again 
 ok but nothing special. 
  
  This is a game where it was an experience and brought back some good memories. I spent 20 hours 
 or so and was happy playing through it. I would say this is not really a great game that I would 
 love to play again, which makes it mediocre at best. If you liked this game, and liked 1st person 
 shooters, then check the bargain bins. I paid under $10 for this game and it was likely worth it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masta_Jedi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 10:36 am PT
Review:  I remember playing this one at arcades before, it can be really fun. It can also be hard as hell 
 if you have no experience in this kind of game, but that adds to the fun. The gameplay is plain 
 and simple, even allowing the use of the wii zapper. It's just your basic on the rails shooter, 
 you go around killing zombies in each level, and killing them before they kill other people if 
 you can. There is always a boss at the end, and in house of the dead 3 there is usually a sub-boss 
 before that.
  Now to talk about these 2 games separetly (since this version comes with House of the Dead 2 and 
 3) , 2 is just classic, the graphics and voice acting are really really crappy. but the simplicity 
 of the arcade style gameplay makes up for it. Now 3 is a bit better. the graphics are smoother, 
 the story seems a bit more interesting (if you even bother to watch the cutscenes) and the bosses 
 are quite challenging. They are both good games, but only if you like the style. If you are not 
 a big fan of arcade shooters then you should probably stay away from this one.
  They also added some other game modes, like a boss time trial mode, where you try to beat bosses 
 the fastest way possible, and a rescue mode, where you have to save all the people on the stage 
 the fastest way possible.
  So overall, its a great arcade game, better with 2 players, controls are ok but nothing really 
 special, and killing zombies is very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam3231
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 10:17 am PT
Review:  Despite the title, House of the Dead 2 & 3, you will probably remember this game as house of the 
 dead 3. 3 is far superior to house 2 in this game sadly, I being an owner of the game have to say 
 I probably played 2 for a few hours while 3 I played till the credits screen. 
  
  As you may already know, House of the Dead games are light gun games, similar to an arcade - you 
 point and shoot at the screen to kill your enemies. (Primarily Zombies in this game) It offers 
 single player as well as co-op gameplay. 
  
  The graphics in both games are fairly outdated since they are merely recycled arcade games on to 
 a console system. (But 3 still makes 2 look like a joke) The game play is o. k. In direct comparison 
 of the two games, 2 is dull, boring, and generally more difficult. 3 has a lot more to offer in 
 visual aspects, the game play is also easier but at the same time more engaging and addictive. 
 You'll find yourself saying whoa, or screaming (at least my friends were) at some of the things 
 in house of the dead 3.
  
  If you're thinking about getting this I would suggest playing with a friend (s) and getting Nyco 
 pistols if you want to get the most out of it. I would probably recommend this game to those looking 
 for a good 2 player co-op game and strictly nothing else because this game really doesn't contain 
 much more to offer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WinWalter
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 23, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Back in the 1990s, there were a lot of light gun shooters, but it's hard to deny that House of 
 the Dead was one of the premier light gun games of that time. It had lots of blood, lots of zombies, 
 and lots of ways to perish. Plugging in dollar after dollar, didn't really increase your chance 
 of beating the game and it was really difficult to most people.
  
  The Nintendo Wii already has some Light Gun shooters under it's belt like Ghost Squad and Resident 
 Evil: Umbrella Chronicles, although the latter is a blended game than a straight forward Light 
 Gun game. House of the Dead II and III return seems like a fairly logical choice.
  
  For some odd reason, the game does not include the 4th game, which is fine, but why they skipped 
 the first game entirely is unknown to me. It would have been simple to add it but they omitted 
 it completely and that is kind of annoying. At the beginning, you can choose to either play House 
 of the Dead II or III and the stats of each game are tracked independently. 
  
  Unfortunately, or fortunately, it's the same game that was in the arcades a decade ago and the 
 graphics really haven't aged very well at all. They're blocky and clunky but at least the blood 
 still flies everywhere as you shoot them into ground meat. 
  
  One thing that players from the arcade will remember, is the brutal difficulty in House of the 
 Dead II. There's no way to dodge attacks except for blowing out the enemies before they get a chance 
 to attack you. At times, there's so many things on the screen, that it's hard to focus on what 
 on your imminent threats and they just keep piling on. Now the game tries to give you some extra 
 chances by putting around some health icons that you can shoot for life, but they are far too rare 
 to be of real use. You can also rescue civilians but you have to rescue so many just to get a bonus 
 life at the end of the stage that's it better not to take the chance because if you shoot one, 
 you lose a life. That entirely counteracts the reason to even bother.
  
  House of the Dead III came out a little later and so the graphics do hold up a bit bitter but when 
 you get down to it, it's still a fairly ugly game by today's standards. The game does have a fair 
 frame rate and rarely does it slow down and everything looks exactly the same as it did in the 
 arcade. In both games, you're allowed to go different routes to the same ending but certain routes 
 are longer and others are easier. House of the Dead III allows the player to choose what order 
 the areas the player will visit next but in reality, all areas must be visited so it doesn't affect 
 the game at all.
  
  This newer game is far easier than the previous and it shows from how much easier it is to combat 
 the plethora of enemies thrown at you. The only difficulty most players will might have are with 
 the gargantuan bosses who take so many hits, you're more than likely to take your fair share. Getting 
 extra lives is also a lot easier. Rescuing your partners from surrounding hordes of enemies will 
 grant an extra life, while failing will get you nothing. This system is much fairer and allows 
 players to get more lives much easily.
  
  In both versions of the Wii, the player can select an easier mode where you can find special items 
 that can give you unlimited ammo, to more continues or different types of gun fire. Although this 
 mode is a lot funner, it is also a lot easier taking the difficulty out of it but at least the 
 games give you a choice as to how to play.
  
  Soundwise, the game sounds the exact same. This includes the horrible voice acting of the second 
 game and it's legacy of poor quality remains intact in this iteration. You'll be wondering if this 
 script came from a Grade 2 play but few play these types of games to get a real interesting story. 
 
  
  There are also challenges from defeating bosses in a certain time or shooting barrels. Beating 
 these challenges will allow you to access unlimited continues and other goodies but if you're that 
 good, there really wouldn't be a reason to get them. 
  
  Where this game fails in my opinion is the aiming system. In the arcades, the technology used for 
 the game is different than the technology used for the Wii. The sensor bar is estimating where 
 you are pointing on the screen but it is never actually where you are pointing. As a result, the 
 game needs the cross hair to be on the screen at all times. Turning it off would be foolish because 
 there is no good way of knowing where the game believes the player is aiming. Many times, you will 
 be aiming at one place, but it's slightly over to the left. This destroyed my game play experience 
 and made it very not enjoyable. Although I was able to slug through it, in the end, I didn't really 
 want to play it because the aiming was always slightly or horrifically off.
  
  House of the Dead II and III were fun games when they came out. Now that they're back on the Wii, 
 they're still fun, but not nearly as much so. Add to the fact that the aim is atrocious, and there's 
 very little replay incentive, you'll realize why these were relegated to the arcades years ago.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClassicPlayer
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  The House of the Dead 2 and 3 Return is 2 games in one, House of the Dead 2 and House of the Dead 
 3. These have different stories but are very interesting. Sega have made some decent games in the 
 past, but the ones that always seems to be good are Ghost Squad and House of The Dead series.
 
  
  Gameplay wise these are great, although House of The Dead 3 being a little too hard on it's final 
 boss, it's all very good. Sega have added in a couple more modes, like Time Attack and Boss Attack 
 for each game. You can play with a second person, and there are inifinte continues to use, which 
 is better than trying to find these at Arcades now a days.
  
  Graphics remain the same but you'd think they could have touched up the graphics a little bit, 
 made them better to show us what Wii can take. House of the Dead 3 was on the original XBOX quite 
 some time ago, and those graphics remain exactly the same.
  
  It's hard to describe these 2 games, both are very addictive wether you like playing arcade shooters 
 with yourself or friends. Completing these modes on both games will take you a good 4-5 hours on 
 each, but trying to perfect those scores will take a lot longer, like on most games practice makes 
 perfect.
  
  The only thing that puzzled me is if Sega added these modes, why couldn't they add the original 
 House of The Dead. Not many people I know have played the very original and completed it, and it 
 would have made this a lot better. Not that this game isn't good but it would have added to the 
 replay value a lot more.
  
  If you like Vampire Hunter, Ghost Squad, Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles or Time Crisis (probably 
 not a good example) then I reccomend that you buy this game. You'll get some fun out of this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snarple_basic
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  House Of The Dead 2 & 3 pack is a great 2 player game for when you and a friend want to have a 
 good time. The Wii remote is very responsive and dead on, the zombies look great in both games. 
 I love how they rip apart when you start shooting them, there are great zombie games that have 
 recently came out that don't have Zombies ripping to pieces as they get hit with bullets. Its also 
 very fun to play alone. Very nice touch that its 2 & 3, when you die playing 2 you can go to 3 
 and then you die you'll want to go back to 2. Sure it would have been nice if the 1st game was 
 included, I remember playing that in the arcades back in the day, and would have loved to see that 
 on my Wii.... Hopefully when the 4th game comes out they'll put it in as a bonus. In the end this 
 is definetly a fun arcade shooter for the Wii. Also great to see the bad acting in the 1st game, 
 its sooooo bad it makes you laugh.... There is absolutely no feeling in those lines, but again 
 it makes me smile, and shouldn't be consider a bad part of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x-Draven-x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 11:35 pm PT
Review:  Let's get something out of the way with House of the Dead on Wii, there are lots of mixed reviews 
 and generally mixed feelings towards this game.
  Fans of the arcade versions of House of the Dead sometimes, but sometimes not look at this game 
 in a negative way saying "it destroyed House of the Dead's good name" blah, blah, blah.
  
  But for anyone who just wants to have a bit of fun, this game is superb.
  
  House of the Dead 
 2 & 3 are both in my mind, perfect ports of the arcade classics and are made generally better on 
 the Wii as you don't have to keep wasting away all those $$ change.
  
  The sound is of course, as terrible as it was in the original, due to crappy voice acting probably 
 done by someone the sound crew found lying in a ditch, however this drastically improves in House 
 of the Dead 3 which I'm not too sure is a good or a bad thing. The terrible voice acting somewhat 
 added to the fun. The gun noises are up to scratch, and the sounds produced by the wiimote definetely 
 make the experience more enjoyable as it makes you feel more involved in the game.
  
  The graphics in House of the Dead 3 remain true to the arcade version, adn appear exactly the same. 
 But the graphics in House of the Dead 2 have been drastically improved from the original form; 
 While of course they are still not upto the Wii's grpahical capabilities, it is definetely an improvement 
 from the arcade.
  
  The House of the Dead 2 & 3 are perfect for a night at home with your best mate, and many hours 
 can be lost simply trying to beat the final boss in either of the two games available. Many unlockables 
 make the game more enjoyable, and alot easier as you can unlock bonus credits as well as extra 
 lives and extra chambers.
  
  The gameplay is brilliant and simple, simply pick up the wiimote, and shoot away! You can have 
 hours of fun blasting away zombie after zombie, this game is definetely a good way to kill time. 
 The only major downfall lies within House of the Dead 3 where at times the gameplay is drastically 
 slowed down. Many people simply say this is a glitch and the developers should have put more time 
 and effort into making it work, but I also see it as it could have been done on purpose, the moments 
 the gameplay is slowed down is rather annoying, but I definetely can see why the developers would 
 have added in this slow-motion mode into the gameplay, simply so when many enemies appear on the 
 screen the player has a clearer view, and has more time to get that precision aim.
  
  The House of the Dead 2 & 3 are both compatible with a Wii Gun, although I found using the Gun 
 alot less enjoyable and moreso annoying than simply using the wiimote as it is rather large and 
 quite uncomfortable to use, especially considering that in House of the Dead 2 & 3 the nunchuck 
 is not required.
  
  
  I would very strongly recommend this game to any fans of the arcade classics, anyone who enjoys 
 zombie action, as well as anyone who enjoys arcade games and anybody who likes playing their games 
 in pairs
  
  
  Review written by: 
  x-Draven-x 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CraZySeahorSe
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  The two different games differ the most in this area. HOTD 2 is much more retro with terrible graphics 
 and beyond pitiful VOs. However, the gameplay lives up with the same old satisfying shooter. An 
 original mode livens it up a bit with permanent upgrades and such. It certainly doesn't disappoint 
 there. HOTD 3 comes back with an even better storyline, updated graphics, and that same challenging 
 arcade style shooter. Both games complement themselves well and are a great package on Wii.
  Graphics
  Terrible in HOTD 2... Good improvements in HOTD 3. Overall, ok at best.
  Sound
 
  Once again, huge differences between the games. Music is good in both, but the VOs is night and 
 day in comparison. The worst ever in HOTD 2 and very impressive in HOTD 3.
  Value
  A bit of a risk to buy, (although the low price helps) House of the Dead 2 & 3 Return is more of 
 a long, good rent. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpunk96
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 2, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Ah, the arcade... heavens of video gaming glory. I love em. And now I have two awesome arcade shooters 
 for my Wii on one disc. Let's just say now that I never played these games back in the arcade. This 
 game has both House Of The Dead 2 and 3 on it and your able to turn the blood from green to red 
 (Hell ya) . First the HOTD 2 has crap voice acting, while 3's is pretty good. The levels are really 
 fun and the bosses are just amazing. The bosses are so much fun. The controls themselves are really 
 good and it's really fun to play the game with the Zapper. The game works well either with or without 
 the Zapper. The graphics aren't amazing but they work well and they get the job done. The sound effects 
 are very well done. The story is also well done. Overall I like House Of The Dead 3 more than 2, because 
 in my eyes it's better Voice Acting, Gameplay, and Story wise. My one major problem with this game 
 is the fact that it's only 2 and 3, no 1. Which really sucks. Oh well, at least they have 3. Also the 
 option of save points every couple levels would have been a little nice just to have if you didn't 
 have the time to play through it all in one go. The Co -op is just amazing fun and it's the best 
 way to play this game. Anyways, great game. Go buy for your Wii. It cost me only $20 and I'm happy 
 with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbetybob
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Well I was bored, the holidays just started, Wii doesn't have anything I'm interested in until 
 August. I'd played SSBB to death, GH3 to, whatever more than death is. I needed something new. 
 "Hey why not some arcade action!" Good idea, I bought the Zapper (which is the best bit of plastic 
 shaped like a gun ever) and had to decide, which to rent and which to buy. HoTD or Ghost Squad. 
 So I went with the latter. And I'm glad I did.
  
  Don't get me wrong, this games fun, and blowing bits of zombie apart is great fun. But each time 
 I play 2 then 3, I feel a missed opportunity. Shooting one shot at a time in HoTD2 is great fun, 
 but the game is REALLY hard. Blowing zombies with the shotgun in HoTD3 isn't as fun but the game 
 is made easier because of that. I wish SEGA had just combined the pair, made a proper Wii HoTD 
 with a gun, but a less punishing difficulty.
  
  So here goes,
  
  THE GOOD = )
  
  -FUNTASTIC. Yes blowing away zombies with accuracy is amazingly fun. I just wish they had incorporated 
 some kind of freeshoot mode where you play the game with no lives or anything, just blast zombies.
 
  
  -Decent value, watching those credits get knocked off just makes you think "Wow, I'd have spent 
 like twice the amount the game cost if I'd played this for 5 hours in the arcade!" Plus 2 games 
 in one means if you're bored of one you can play the other.
  
  -Original Mode, trust me without this unless you remember the patterns of every zombie in the game, 
 and save every single hostage, you 'aint gonna be completing this in arcade mode. That's why original 
 mode is fun, the more you play it the better stuff you find, the better stuff you find the more 
 chance you have of completing the game.
  
  THE BAD = (
  
  -As stated above original mode is great, so why is it not unlocked in HoTD3 from the start?! And 
 whilst HoTD3 is easier than 2 it's still really hard to complete.
  
  -It's a port. As I stated it feels like a missed opportunity, they should've made a Wii specific 
 version, with HoTD3's graphics and sound, but letting you choose your weapon at the start, make 
 the game easier but stretch it out and add more zombies to shoot.
  
  -Graphics and sound. HoTD3 isn't a problem, but 2 is terriblle, I can live with the graphics though 
 but the voice acting is REALLY REALLY bad. You have to play it to know what I mean.
  
  -Hard as nails. You aren't going to be completing arcade mode in a hurry trust me.
  
  So basically, 
 the game is great fun, it is also quite cheap now so while I would suggest getting Ghost Squad 
 instead, do try this out if you like Lightgun games and zombies, it's good fun just seems like 
 a missed opportunity.
  
  Check out my Ghost Squad review coming soon/on here now if you are from the future.... hello future 
 people. What's the future like? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whipassmt
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 22, 2009 9:57 am PT
Review:  Basically it is a one or two person first person shooter. My cousin and I call it the "house of 
 the alive" and sometimes "house of the crappy". Basically you go through a level shooting zombies 
 and other ugly creatures and then at the end of the level you fight some big ugly boss. It is difficult 
 let me tell you. My cousin and I still haven't beat it. He is thinking of eventually buying a "cheat 
 pack" for it so we can beat it. Anyway, the graphics are arcade style, so not too great. And the 
 Voice acting is - blah, it is awfully awful. For instance they sound so monotone, especially the 
 "we've got to save G' and "He's over there" lines. Anyway, sometimes you can save innocent people 
 and if you save enough you might just get an extra life. I haven't played this game in a while- 
 we only played it for a relatively short time- it was around Easter. We Just gave up on it, I suppose. 
 Update: My cousin and I (mostly him) just beat this game before Christmas. Actually part 3 is a 
 lot better than part 2: better voice, better graphics, better guns (shotguns rather than pistols 
 which we got in part 2) . In retrospect, this game is better than when I first reviewed it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: residentevil47
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  If you never got to play the House of the Dead games with the whole Arcade experience or have and 
 just want to re experience to horror again, this game is for you.
  
  This game is exactly like the Arcade games but instead of losing hundreds of dollars in quarters 
 you can pay a one time fee of $30 to pay whenever you want.
  
  The only difference in this and the original version is instead of popping quarters into the machine 
 when you die you need to look closely in the levels to find health powerups. This increases the 
 difficulty of the game.
  
  This is a good game for its price but a few add ons or unlockables would have been nice, like maybe 
 if you beat 2 and 3 1 would become unlocked since I really don't see why they'd release 2 and 3 
 without 1. Yes the graphics and voice acting is terrible but its an exact replica of the originals 
 to enhance the arcade experience and add in a zapper or a Nyco Perfect Shot and its about as close 
 to the Arcade experience as you're going to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tellulater2
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 4, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  Although this game doesn't have much depth, it is still an entertaining romp through an arcade 
 shooter. I paid $20 for it new and it's worth every penny. The best part of this game is that unlike 
 some other games with better graphics, storyline, etc, I can sit down with this game and in 20 
 minutes feel like I had a good complete time. Other games take so long to get geared up or really 
 get rolling that it can feel more like a chore than a fun time. If you like rail shooters you won't 
 want to miss this one. With the Nyko Powershot and the calibration function I feel like I'm at 
 the arcade minus the load of quarters and 10 year olds. Don't even bother with this game if you 
 are a graphics snob or are looking for an oscar worthy performance because you'll be SOL. However, 
 the dated graphics and super velveeta dialogue add to the flavor of the game. Like a B-movie that 
 you'll choose over the lastest blockbusters time after time. Look for it used or in a bargain bin, 
 but then again, $30 isn't too bad considering what you might pay for a Wii game you don't like 
 (i. e. most Wii titles) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarHero670
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  When it come to rail shooter only one company knows how to do it and that's SEGA and now their 
 House of the dead franchise is on the Wii, so how does it stack up to the competition?
  
  Both HOTD 2 & 3 are availible right off the bat with a handful of extra unlocked in each as you 
 go along. Unless you have already played these games and have learnt every enemy position the amount 
 of credits and lives they give you will not be enough. But thankfully the amount of life credits 
 can be increased by just playing the game. But what this leads to is you just killing yourself 
 over and over to get more credits and life to beat the game. Once you've beaten both games there 
 really isn't much else to do. There's a few extra game modes like Extreme Mode which makes enemy's 
 immune to any bullets not fired at their weak points
  
  This game is only going to last 1 hour long to beat both HOTD games. Rail shooter nuts might stick 
 around to beat Training mode and Boss mode in HOTD 2 but that only adds an extra hour or so to 
 the gameplay.
  
  I don't reccommend paying full whack for this game as 2 hours of game is not enough to make you 
 pay 30. But it is worth a rent.
  
  If you can only buy one game between this and Resdint Evil: Umbrella Chronicles. Get RE: UC as it's 
 21 times as long as this game and is a whole lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoguy93
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 18, 2008 10:34 pm PT
Review:  before buying this game, i wasn't able to play hotd2 at all at home, only whenever i go to virginia 
 beach. now i get practice for the next trip :D!
  
  the graphics are great! a little to the beta-ps2 side, but none-the-less classic! with parts of 
 the zombies chipping off at different shots & sometimes blowing their heads off at the right shot. 
 with perfect designs for the bosses & fantastic design for levels.
  
  the gameplay is flawless & very east to master. but the stories are short by a hair. with surprises 
 at every corner & a calibration system if it doesn't act properly. the weapons can easily be reloaded 
 by aiming off of the screen. though, you don' get to move, but that's why it's called a rail shooter.
 
  
  the sound is brilliant! if you have played the arcade versions, you can easily say phrases before 
 the characters do. it also has a nice arcade-style ring to it. a perfect set of sound effects straight 
 from the arcades & sweet to hear!
  
  great to play over & over again! i recommend this game highly! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HumanIce2
Rating: 9
Date: May 12, 2008 5:25 am PT
Review:  First, a House Of The Dead 2 review,
  HOFD2 is a great game with terrible voice acting, and I like that. kinda like Resident Evil Survivor. 
 it pretty much makes you laugh while playing it.
  this game is really hard at first, but then you get used to it.. the last 2 bosses are amazing. 
 the co-op is pretty bad because you share the credits, and the second player is ALWAYS some HOTD 
 noob. if you're going to play this game in co-op and enjoy it, get a good HOTD player to play it 
 with you.
  I got hooked by the Boss mode because I really like boss battles, and by beating all of the bosses 
 just once, you unlock the last boss and all bosses together. I dunno why I like this game so much, 
 but HOTD2 is an amazing, short game with loads of boss battles and fun things in it.
  I really love the first game and this game would be better with all of the games packed into it. 
 I believe they didn't put it in there because of the graphics in the first game.
  then a HOTD3 review, this game gets boring after playing it once, and it's not very addicting. 
 it will keep you hooked until you beat the game.. and you'll pretty much never play it again after 
 that. the last boss in HOTD3 is riiidicilously hard and really long. you must have at least 5 credits 
 to beat him.
  
  but anyway, Resident Evil: The Umbrella Chronicles is NOT like this game, RE: UC is a lot worse, 
 if you're a RE fan, buy this game instead because it's a lot better and I myself am a great fan 
 of RE2 and 3.
  and I say this game is for gore fans, like Mortal Kombat fans or any arcade fans that like light 
 gun shooters.
  maybe I'm a rare fan of these type of games. but I liked this game a lot. it's my nr.1 Wii game 
 at the moment WITH Metroid Prime 3, I dunno who's better, this game or Metroid Prime 3, they're 
 both just as good. the list will maybe change when I get Mario Kart Wii or Smash Bros. but this 
 game is a lot better than Mario Galaxy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leatherface_19
Rating: 1.5
Date: May 3, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Alright House of the Dead 2 an 3 Return for the Wii in my opinion is a total letdown. Why you maybe 
 asking well its simple there is no save points and the bosses are hysterical (sp?) hard. Thats just 
 naming some but anyway gameplay alright storyline... original and gun mechanics simple and easy. 
 The voice acting though is the worst of ALL i mean this is more horrid than DAH: Big Willy Unleashed!!! 
 If you've seen my page i have posted a rant becuase i feel this review limits me to words and my 
 blog posts really don't so anyway House of the Dead 2 and 3 Return is the worst zombi game of ALL 
 TIME!!!!!!!!! Some avice don't buy thid game don't buy into the game's cover which by the way looks 
 cooler than the game itself. I gave up on this a while back and on April 30th i bought GTA IV and 
 an started playing it so all in all HoD 2 and 3 Return is horri and completely STUPID!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imastryker
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 25, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  This game rocks. Plain and simple. I was 6 when I first started playing in the arcades with my 
 friends. it was 1998. I remember to this day the magic that the arcade room had. It was huge with 
 40 arcades. lights were always flashing, the room was full of noise and music. Those are my best 
 videogame memories. And house of the dead 2&3 Return on the wii brought them back. If you used 
 to love arcade rail shooters like me, you will find a lot to like in this game. If you are younger, 
 and were brought up on ps2 fps or other modern games, you might not like this game. The graphics 
 are the same as the 90s originals, as is the cheesy voice acting. however, i actually like the 
 slightly bad narrative and blocky graphics... they give the game its charm. I actually find the 
 old 90s graphics (house of the dead, Resident Evil 1-3) more scary than modern games. I dont know 
 why. It must be the color pallet and distinct musical styles. The controls are great: they are 
 easy and simple. just aim the wii mote and shoot. All one must do to reload is point the wii mote 
 away from the tv. You will feel like you are back playing in the arcade. It is short, but it is 
 balanced out by the difficulty. you can choose 1-9 credits (lives) , but there are no savepoints 
 or checkpoints, you must beat the game with those lives. it is good old fashioned challenge. it 
 has tons of great options, such as what your aiming recticle looks like, or you can even get rid 
 of a recticle all together and play it true arcade style. some say the 1-3 hour length is to short, 
 but i can play my favorite arcade shooters again and again no matter how many times I win. It also 
 has great multiplayer. overall, if you have fond memories of 90s arcades, buy it! if not, rent 
 it and see first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: belladonna14
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 24, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  If you are a lover of the house of the dead acrade series, then this IS the game for you. This 
 game will provide hours of addicting zombie slaying at HOME, so what more can you ask for. The 
 controling of this game is great with just the wii remote alone and even better with the zapper. Story 
 line is exactly as you remember in the arcade and the multiplayer is a blast! Only thing that could 
 of been a bit diffrent is when you go thrue your lives have to start over at the FIRST level, so 
 can be a bit tediouse. Also the graphics have not come that far for this classic, but for the wii 
 cant expect too much. Having both games for the price of just $29.99 is well worth the bargin, 
 and if a huge fan of this series as i am the game will pay its self off in quarters being used 
 at the arcade for hours of play. Could of done more also and possibly put the original house of 
 the dead on there too but guess can not win them all. Otherwise no complaints about this increadable 
 game. Highly recomended for ANY fan of this arcade classic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct1257860
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is very addicting, in the beginning it seems like a well-off package you got there. But 
 the issue in the game really stands out, and its for the stupidest reasons. Its simply for the 
 save points.... the fact that there are none. Meaning you have to beat the whole game with out dying! 
 I haven't done it and it takes a lot of the fun away of it after a while. The graphics should of 
 also been upgraded to the wii's capabilities. These problems are huge, the graphics dont even bother 
 me because its a classic game. This classic game also comes with the classic dialog which is really 
 fun and i wouldnt want it changed if it could be. I was mainly talking about the house of the dead 
 2, the save issues remain in the house of the dead 3 but the graphics are naturally tuned up a 
 bit. House of the dead 2 you start out using a pistol of some sort and then in house of the dead 
 3 you get a shotgun. But you can find other guns and hidden weapons through out the levels. It 
 would have easily been a great wii zapper handheld shooter if they just added some save points 
 in the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CptObvious1031
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 11, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  (I posted this in my blog as well)
  
  During my teenage years House of the 2 & 3 sucked more quarters out of my pocket than Taco Bells 
 45 cent Tacos (yes back in the early 90's that's how much a single taco cost there) . I would head 
 up to my local arcade which is now a mobile phone store that has since gone out of business and 
 spend many many hours there blasting away at the forthcoming hordes of undead, laughing at how 
 horrible the voice overs were in the game. The Wii version of the game brings back such great memories 
 I couldn't resist buying this game. I would call it a diamond in the rough but it's not. It's not 
 even pyrite (fool's gold) in the rough. It's pretty much a lump of coal. The kind of coal that 
 you use on your BBQ to cook things. So it's a bit better than mined coal, but it's still coal none 
 the less.
  
  The aiming and calibration features of House of the Dead 2 & 3 which we shall refer to as HOD23 
 from this point forward simply beacuse I'm feeling a bit lazy today. HOD23 allows you to play 2 
 player co-op which is great if you want your continues to be sucked down faster than the free booze 
 at a party full of recovering alcoholics that've decided to jump the wagon for the night. You only 
 get 5 continues to share between the two of you. Not 5 each, 5 total and that's just wrong. Good 
 luck even passing the first boss charcter that piles of scraps called a continue pile.
  
  Did I mention that you only have a maximum of 5 life points too? Oh yeah... that's only if you go 
 in and change the options away from default. Otherwise it's 3 life points and 3 continues. I'm 
 actually of the opinion that Sega designed the game this way to make it the #1 nominee for most 
 annoying zapper game for the Wii. It would be better if you could somehow unlock more continues 
 or higher life points by completing some of the other levels in the game like Training or Boss 
 Battle, but no. Sega gave us the big "Forget you!" and sold us HOD23 for $29.99 a pop. I've used 
 more continues in just trying to pass the normal level than 29.99 worth of precious shiny quarters. 
 So you could say at least I've got my money's worth right? WRONG! 
  
  Take in to account the insanely high levels of frustration that game gives you when you finally 
 pass a level after working 2 hrs with a friend in co-op only to find that you have no continues 
 left and your loser friend gets killed off within the first 30 seconds of the new level because 
 he's lost his aiming rectical and can't fire a dang shot. So you bash the buffoon over the head 
 with your own controller, breaking it, and straying from the game just long enough for the zombies 
 to kill you off too. Guess what. GAME OVER. Start back from the very beginning of the game AGAIN!!! 
 Up yours SEGA!
  
  Unless you're some sort of rabid light zapper gun game geek, don't waste your money on this game 
 as I did. I'm so heavilly disappointed in HOD23 that the game case has been reduced to a coffee 
 cup coaster in my living room. If you want a good light gun game, the best shot for the money is 
 Link's Crossbow Training, and that comes with the Wii Zapper... a much better investment of 29.99 
 if you ask me. At least you can pick up from the level you last failed on and continue forward 
 from there instead of getting the ice pick in the eye feeling of dread that HOD23 gives you when 
 it mercilessly forces you start back at the very very begining each and every time you start it 
 up or run out of your oh so generous 5 continues. 
  
  Seriously... who has time to sit and blast there way through the entire game with only 5 continues? 
 If you've done it. Then you are one of the aformentioned rabid zapper gun game geeks and are such 
 a small part of the gaming population that your thoughts don't count anyway. Go back to firing 
 your invisible bullets now.
  
  I give HOD23 a 2 out of 10 rating. That's only because it's not the absolute worst game I've ever 
 played on the Wii... but it's sucktacular enough to be in my top 10 worst games I've played this 
 year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coltACP
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  I am a fan of the original games, i have House of the dead 1 (pc) , 2 (dreamcast-with gun) and 3 (pc) 
 so i know exactly what to compare this port with. As ports go, house of the dead 2 and 3 return 
 is a solid conversion the graphics are identical to there respective versions and even house of 
 the dead 3 runs well with only minor slow down every now and then.
  
  The main point of these games is to kill lots of zombies and have fun doing so, it's here that 
 the wiimote shines, it's darn accurate and you can tinker with your aim till you find just the 
 right refinement that suits you.
  
  Whilst the main games will take a few hours each to master there are a few extra modes within each 
 to add a bit of longevity, but you have to enjoy the base of what is on offer inorder to want to 
 play the extra modes. I always considerd House of the dead an acquired taste and simple ports don't 
 really do these games any favours for gaining new fans, if you liked the originals then you'll 
 enjoy this. As a fan the mot glaring problem with this game is it's lack of House of the dead 1. 
 apparently it was not graphically viable (ie the graphics were not good enough) , i strongly disagree 
 as the main point is the gun totting action not the graphics, if graphics were the main concern 
 then house of the dead should have been upgraded.
  
  Overall the game will provide a fun few hours of zombie killing action but fans or anyone looking 
 for innovation will be disapointed. it is an incomplete package that could have done with more 
 time devoted to it either adding new ways to play the games, extra content or a complete overhaul (aswell 
 as arcade perfect ports) similar to how capcom completley redid resident evil on the GC. More time 
 and effort was needed. as a simple cash in Sega probably sold the same game to people who already 
 had one or two of them (pointless and unproductive) . I doubt this will have sold well which makes 
 a port of House of the dead 4 even less likely, but to be honest, the developers need to try harder 
 than simply porting old games to wii, yes it works but so did ghost squad which came out earlier 
 and is a far superior package in terms of replay value and just fun (even this game has alot of 
 untidy ideas in it aswell but at least more effort was made) .
  
  I enjoyed playing through this game again on the Wii, it is well suited to it but the developers 
 missed an opportunity to actually make House of the dead truely 'return'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: futuramafan101
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2008 5:50 am PT
Review:  House of the dead 2 and 3 finely comes to the Wii and I thought they were good games to play and 
 I think the wii remote work great and made the games much easier to play and more fun. The graphics 
 for house of the dead 2 were ok and they made like smooth and clear which looked much better then 
 the dreamcast's version, house of the dead 3 graphics were great and looked smooth and clear as 
 well. The gameplay was fun with the Wii remote and it made more fun. The only 2 things that was 
 annoying was when you loose in the arcade mode and having only 3 life lines and 5 credits to start 
 off and you unlocked more credits and life lines every time you loose I found that annoying and 
 they were no save points which was annoying having to keep go back to the begin every time and 
 why did not include the first house of the dead that would have been great if they put on as well. 
 But It all it is a fun playing house of the dead 2 and 3 again and if you like arcade shooters 
 this is worth trying out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klondon
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  I think 6.0 is a little harsh on a game that has turned out to be quite a bit of fun!! Whether 
 a solo shooter or teamed with a buddy this game definitely packs a bang for the buck. Hey my wife 
 even likes it! I picked up a couple of the Nyko Perfect Shot Wii accessories (by far the best of 
 the shooter paraphernalia) and I gotta say goin' in double-wielding is a blast. Whether you were 
 a fan of the arcade game, or you are new to HOD there is something for everyone. There is something 
 very relaxing about blasting zombies shooter style. Not to mention I dig the old school cheesy 
 voice over...."I don't want to DIE!!" The game has several different options and play types and 
 you are able to adjust the accuracy of your weapon of choice. HOD2 is a six shooter offering a 
 higher level of difficulty than it's shotgun toting, wider blast range counterpart HOD3. Either 
 one of these is good for hours of enjoyment. The only drawback so far is that there are no save 
 points. You have to start over at the beginning when you die!! Just a bigger incentive to make 
 sure you don't miss your targets!! If you are looking for a fun way to pass the time or if you 
 are a fan of the game already... I recommend picking this one up. I also recommend the Nyko Perfect 
 Shots (2 to be exact) as it definitely makes the game more fun. Don't listen to the nay say-ers, 
 this game has value!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: therealshezman
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  The house of the dead 2 has cost me a large fortune, since it was first released way back when. 
 I was still into, and still am into, grunge music, horror films and gore (mabye not so much the 
 gore, must come with age) . I was never good at arcade games but i would happily put () coin after 
 coin into the sit down cab in the local arcade, when i say local i mean about 3miles or so... the 
 point here is i loved this game more than my social life at the time. it finally got replaced by 
 some horrible fruit machine. I got my life back but there was some thing missing... ZOMBIE'S.
 
  
  After a few years I had my first job and saved up two weeks wages and made my mum drive me round 
 looking for a dreamcast and more importantly a copy of house of the dead 2. The last shop we visited 
 had a copy of the game, (the consol was the easy part) , so i parted with the most money i had seen 
 in my life and was once again lost in the world of sega's peak of gaming. I eventually needed money 
 again and had to sell my dreamcast and most prised posetion.
  
  Sorry about the life story, I like to know about the people whom I read from, if you don't, thank 
 you for sticking round this long.
  
  The bottom line is I fell in love with video games when I met the gem that is The House of the 
 Dead 2. I was sad enough to go and buy a copy on the release date along with the zapper thing. 
 To be honest i thought this would be a let down, like all thing's you left behind in your childhood 
 and have come back to. 
  
  But I was blown away!!! simlpy put this is what gaming is about, no 100+ hour story, no leveling 
 up to a mega magic man, no... well i am sure you get the point. The game runs mega smoothly, there 
 is a slight loading screen still on hotd2, I am sure that could have been sorted out. But gameplay 
 wise this is the cream of the crop. You watch the cut sceen's at the start, if you remeber them 
 perhaps you may even mouth the word's. The stroy is'nt this games strong point, in fact it is terrible 
 in a good way like a classic godzilla movie. Then the action begins and does'nt let up till you 
 defeat the first boss, pause, action, repeat. It is still one really tough game and one I will 
 never lose again.
  
  As for Hotd3, it has the looks of a next gen game, again lack of story but the action is much the 
 same, pant wettingly awsome. This installment the player use's shot guns so there is a bit more 
 give in the shooting skill's required. But look's like it's gona be one hell of a game.
  
  From the digging around I have done on the internet it look's like sega has missed the chance to 
 squeeze the 1st hotd onto the disk, wich seem's a shame since it would be nice to see the origins 
 of hotd2.
  
  To sum up this is the greatest game to have ever been made, serious, unless of course you like 
 story in your games (but if you like story's books are good for that) , but for pure adrenillin 
 enduced action on the wii or any other console for that matter there is no way you could go wrong 
 with this classic, infact its not a classic this a timeless wonder that will never lose its grip 
 when it gets hold of you. You won't play this game for more that an hour at a time but it's gonna 
 be one of your most exciting hours untill you play it again!
  
  You will love this game, if not the zombie's will be sent round yours!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boxworthy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  My girlfriend and I have searched for a good 2-player cooperative game for our Wii and House of 
 the Dead 2 & 3 has done the job thus far.
  
  The targetting and game controls could use some help by way of third party peripherals. I cannot 
 imagine playing this game with the Wiimote by itself. The Wii Zapper is bulkier than necessary 
 for this game because of its nunchuk-carrying frame and, given the fast pace and constant on-screen/off-screen 
 shooting/reloading, isn't ideal because of its weight and elongated design (too big to hold like 
 a pistol, too short to hold like a rifle) . My girlfriend uses the Nyko Perfect Shot which is shaped 
 more like your traditional arcade gun and, in my opinion, is preferred.
  
  Both 2 and 3 naturally capture the arcade graphics and horrible (yet oddly entertaining) dialogue. 
 If unfamiliar to the games, a warning: do not expect story. This is one of those games you load 
 to blast zombies for short spurts and put down once satisfied or, if your experience is like mine, 
 frustrated beyond belief.
  
  House 2 appears to be a perfect port from the arcade whereas House 3 has occasional lag. Having 
 never played 3 in the arcade, I cannot say whether this is a hardware or software problem. Fortunately, 
 the slowdown parts of the game are rare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: falconclan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  House of the dead for a long time has been one of my favorite light gun shooting games. Needless 
 to say I've been trying to get one of them put on a recent system. I would have rather seen sega 
 use their time to say, port HOTD 4 to xbox 360 or PS3, but this'll do. 
  
  First, why isn't House of the dead 1 involved? Well thats simpler, they would have to port it and 
 that would be hard, as it hasn't had a decent port ever, and the only 2 ports it has had were on 
 PC and Saturn and were less then impressive compared to the arcade version. What most people don't 
 know is back when Sega was making House of the dead 2 for dreamcast, they were remaking the original 
 for dreamcast with enhanced graphics. Due to bugs and an ever closer release date for dreamcast 
 the entire project was scrapped and they released HOTD2 without it. Is it possible the old project 
 will ever resurface, maybe, but I doubt it. 
  
  The real question is, why is sega so lazy nowadays? I'm not really sure, but through it we got 
 HOTD 2 & 3 return. The first thing you see when you begin playing is the main menu obviously, it 
 probably took them 5 minutes to make, but whatever, no one cares about the menu. So you have a 
 choice, HOTD 2 or 3. We'll start with my personal favorite 2.
  
  House of the dead 2 is your standard light gun game, but very well made, I might be willing to 
 say its one of the best of all time. The story is lame, following the curien case from the first 
 game, but lets face it, the only reason you'd listen to the dialog is for a few laughs anyways. 
 Along the way there will be many choices, which can change the outcome and the path you take, as 
 well as the way you fight the bosses. Unless you are playing original mode, the separate paths 
 allow you to save more people from time to time, and find more items, but if you are playing arcade 
 you're really only doing it for fun, score, or more health. 
  
  The game is only about an hour long, so its more of the sort of thing to play when you have a friend 
 over and you just wanna waste some time. The graphics are obviously nothing to be desired, its 
 a 10 year old game, but it is a lot of fun and its a great way to just take a short break from 
 life every once in a while
  
  House of the dead 3 was originally brought to consoles on the xbox. It was a pretty fun game, but 
 this version isn't really as good as the xbox one. It has slowdowns from time to time, and it seems 
 like maybe sega didn't have time to optimize it to make it look a bit better. If you don't have 
 access to an Xbox however, this is a great alternative obviously. This time the year is like 2009, 
 and you are going to find Rogan, again the story is NOTHING spectacular, and it really doesn't 
 add anything. 
  
  I know I didn't really describe the games all that well, but like I said they are just light gun 
 shooters. What really makes this game a better pickup then House of the dead 3 for xbox, or 2 for 
 dreamcast is the calibration, its spot on. This is by far the best version of both of the games 
 as far as light gun calibration goes. Whether it is worth the $30 price tag really depends on the 
 persons likes. If you've never played them in the past, go to your nearest arcade and try to find 
 it, HOTD is almost everywhere in one version or another, and they aren't too different even if 
 you play like, the first. 
  
  If you don't have an arcade, and haven't ever played it I recommend at least giving it a try. It 
 really is a great batch of on rail light gun shooter games. Its a shame they didn't have more time 
 to spend on it though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itsneilman
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 23, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  I have found all The House of The Dead games always fun, and this is no exception. I first started 
 to play this game by myself and I was having fun with it, then my brothers friend came in and we 
 played this game for about 2 and half hours straight, we were just trying to be the 3rd one. Now 
 Im going to start working on the 2nd one, I hope the 2nd is just as exciting as the 3rd. The controls 
 are really responsive in the game and the difficulty is just right. If you are looking for something 
 fun to play, and a good arcade game on the Wii. Buy The House of the Dead 2 & 3 Return, there are 
 many things to unlock and it never really gets boring. I replayed that the 3rd I don't even know 
 how many times, its fun every single time you play it! So if you are looking for a fun and highly 
 addictive game, be sure to pick House of the The Dead.
  
  For great Justice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DravenLaVitt
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 22, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  well... this game isn't scary AT ALL.
  The graphics SUCK.
  Game play isn't all that great either.
  but stop your b*tching.... its one of those '"renewed 
 classics". this game is much more enjoyable with those little pink and blue guns, though. its a 
 fun game to play along with a friend... it's also rather entertaining, if you want it to be.
  its no resident evil or silent hill, but this game somewhat started the whole Genre so give it 
 some credit, yeah?
  In reality... its more for an arcade.... not for your Wii.
  pluses: fun, old classic, you get to shoot things which is always nice, the locations have a nice 
 change to them
  minus: bad graphics, repetitive, words don't match people's mouths, boss battles are ridiculously 
 easy, not much variety in guns i'm afraid, borinngg :)
  *sigh* yeah, it's boring.
  want a game for your little 8-yr-old son or little bro? then get this game... if not... well... dont.
 
  get super mario instead. ;)
  
  its so-so, overall.
  I suppose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TarkatanWarrior
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 22, 2008 3:37 am PT
Review:  The wii has been cashing in on old arcade shooters since the wii zapper came out, and while the 
 idea itself is great, we haven't seen many games that fit into the category come out right.
  
  Resident Evil umbrella chronicles was stellar, it was a game that proved that a simple genre 
 like on rails shooters could be deep and have an amazing story.
  
  Then we saw Ghost Squad, pretty much an exact arcade port, with a huge list of weapons thrown in, 
 which almost made it worth the 30$
  
  House of the dead 2, and 3 however are certainly not worth 30$. With absolutely nothing new added 
 to the game, graphics that are somehow worse, and the trademark limbs and guts flying everywhere 
 which is somehow flawed in the wii version, you'd be hard pressed to be satisfied with renting 
 this game.
  
  For people who are HUGE fans of the arcade game, go ahead, buy it, but if you're new to the genre, 
 or want a real, decent on rails shooter, throw down an extra 20$ and get umbrella chronicles. 
 
  
  This game is an embarrassment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YukoAsho
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  I mentioned in my Umbrella Chronicles review my annoyance at being unable to play House of the 
 Dead 2 on my LCD television, which is a shame since it was one of my favorite Dreamcast games. 
 Thus, it's easy to imagine that I was all over House of the Dead 2 & 3 Return for the Wii.
  
  House of the Dead 2 & 3 Return is, as the name suggests, a collection of House of the Dead 
 2 and House of the Dead 3, which previously got home console releases on the Dreamcast and the 
 original Xbox respectively. Now, ignoring the obvious omission of the original House of the Dead 
 (seriously, what's up with that?) , this is actually a damned good collection, and a wonderful experience 
 for light gun game enthusiasts.
  
  First off, we have House of the Dead 2, which contains all the goodies that were present in the 
 Dreamcast release. In addition to the arcade mode, Original mode allows players to go into battle 
 with their choice of two power-up items. Items can be collected through repeated playthroughs and 
 include increased clip size, extra continues, increased bullet strength and the like. Items are 
 consumed with each use and must be found again in the game to be used in a subsequent playthrough. 
 For those wishing to brush up on their lightgun skills, the game features a robust training mode 
 which guides the player through various objectives to better their skills for the main game. Lastly, 
 gamers just wishing to practice on the various bosses the game offers can play Boss Mode, which 
 lets players select bosses to fight, in order to increase effectiveness for the main game.
  
  Speaking of the main game, in both arcade and original modes, players take on the roles of 
 AMS agents out to stop an undead invasion being led by Goldman, the financial backer of Dr. Curien's 
 1998 experiment (Which was HotD1) . The game features plenty of different types of dead things to 
 shoot at, with quite a few of them sporting either armor or blades that can block bullets, forcing 
 more precise aiming. Players start with three hit points, but can earn more by finding health kits 
 in destructable pots and cans, or by saving certain civilians. Of course, life can be lost by shooting 
 civilians, so care is required with shots. At the end of each stage, players are graded on their 
 accuracy and how many civilians are saved, and may earn extra life with high ranking.
  
  House of the Dead 3 isn't as feature-rich as House of the Dead 2, only boasting an arcade and time 
 attack mode, with an extreme difficulty mode that can be unlocked which requies that enemies be 
 shot in specific weak points to kill them. Gone is the civilian-saving nonsense of 2, replaced 
 with minigames where one partner must save the other in order to gain extra life. The game's other 
 gimmick is a branching path system which allows players to choose the order at which they'll take 
 on the game's various stages. Like House of the Dead 2, the game boasts an amazing variety of enemies 
 to shoot at, including enemies that have some protection and must be shot at carefully in order 
 to take down. The lack of a boss mode is a shame, as this game has bosses that are every bit as 
 crazy and interesting as in House of the Dead 2. At the end of each stage, players are graded based 
 on time and accuracy, and may be able to win life with high enough rank.
  
  Now since this is a Wii title, the game uses a cursor to represent where the player is aiming. 
 This may be turned off in the options mode for Zapper users (who must then calibrate their Zapper) , 
 but the game doesn't really punish users of Wii remotes, as aiming is just as fast with the Wii 
 Remote as it is with the light guns we all remember. The games are, however, extremely fast, making 
 it a strain of reflexes in solo play. This is a game meant to be played with a buddy, which is 
 a shame since both players share the same pool of credits. Also, while the story takes itself alarmingly 
 seriously in House of the Dead 2, the voice acting is absolutely atrocious. House of the Dead 3 
 isn't going to win any academy awards either, but it seems at least as though the voice actors 
 were having at least some fun with the decidedly more campy tone of the story.
  
  In short, the game is quite a fun little romp, and a great addition to the library of any fan of 
 light gun games. It's just a crying shame that the Wii can't handle House of the Dead 4: the Wii 
 remote would be a great fit for that game. Oh well, we can always dream. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knightfire35
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 21, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  House of the Dead 2 & 3 Return for the Wii has finally hit shelves. Does it prove to be a good 
 shooter? There are two whole games, but the games are not very long. But for the cheap price of 
 $30 the game will give you a lot of content for your money. You can play through the original games, 
 or test your skilled in arcade mode. Both modes are the same game, just have different difficulties. 
 There are extra modes like time attack, and survival but they are not very fun. The graphics are 
 not that good, but what can you expect from an old arcade game. The boss fights are the highlights 
 of the game. They are fun and hard at the same time. Each boss has a weak point you have to hit 
 in order to defeat it and move onto the next level. Unlike "Ghost Squad," "House of the dead' gives 
 you a certain amount of credits, which can give you another life if you die. This makes the game 
 very difficult. Thankfully, you can make the game very east and add more credits to give you a 
 chance. If your not a classic shooter fan, this pry wont impress you. Ghost squad would be a better 
 choice. The co-op multi player is good, but you share credits, so if one plater is not as good 
 as the other, you will drag down your partner. Overall it is not a bad game if you enjoy classic 
 shooters, and need a game to play with a friend. Just be prepared to get frustrated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razo01
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that people are being a little harsh with there reviews. For any house of the dead 
 fan this game is totally worth it. U could pay alot more for a house of the dead 3 for the xbox 
 and a house of the dead 2 for the dreamcast. The game plays exactly like the arcade. Very fun to 
 play with a 2nd person. 
  
  
  The Difficulty of this games is a little screwy, even on easy its pretty hard. I do not mind the 
 game not having any save points, but they should have been a little more generous with the lives 
 and credits. What bothered me mostly was that they did not add the original house of the dead as 
 an unlockable, who does that? If your going to have a collection of a series that was so popular, 
 why not include the original which made it all happen, but overall I was happy with the way the 
 game looked and played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trackpants
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 17, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  House of the dead 2 and 3 are plain and simple fun for the first few hours, but level after level 
 of repition gets a bit boring. The game is difficult at first but every time you die they give 
 you a little something like extra lives or more ammo slots the next time you play around. The only 
 problem is you have to play through about 20 times before you actually beat the game and doing 
 the same levels over and over are not fun. Also it is not cool how they did not make the first 
 game of the series so that people can get a better understanding of the story line. Also you can 
 not save in this game and you do not get a check point either. The price is fair at 30 dollars 
 but I would not buy it brand new unless you are a hard core fan or have not been happy with games 
 on the wii as of late and need something to get you rolling. I would wait for this one to hit the 
 bargain bin, and or have a rental of it for a weekend and you should be fine with it. I rate this 
 a fair 6.0 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dirty89
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  This works for the arcades but in your house it is a pain not to be able to save. I had my hope 
 up when i heard this series was coming to the wii. I was thinking the point and shoot mouse like 
 capabilities of the wii plus my favorite series of shooters you cant go wrong but nintendo screws 
 this up by allowing a half done attempt of a great shooter on their system. Whats up with the no 
 saves and we could have received some generous amounts of continues. I think nintendo should add 
 some much needed download content for this let down on their VC. I also think that these half hearted 
 atempts dont look good for sega. House Of The Dead 4 should be done by someone that takes more pride 
 in what they deliver us like Infinity Ward. I say if you like the series buy it out of the bargain 
 bin and hope that if theres a Virtue Cop coming the Wii that they wont make the same mistake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameMan3000
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  The game is a Great port of the arcade games and makes a great Light Gun game for the Wii. But 
 there are two things that I do not like about it, one is that there are no save points in the games, 
 you play thru both games up to the very last level and then when you die it's game over and you 
 have to re-start all over again. You only get about 4 or 5 continues and about 3 to 4 live points 
 witch can go quickly if you are shooting at 5 or 10 monsters at a time. The second thing I do not 
 like is that the game does not have the first House of the Dead game on it, they have parts 2 & 
 3 of the games series on it, so they should have part 1 in the game as well. My thoughts are that 
 if you buy the game for $29.99, then they should have both save points & the first HotD game in 
 it. If you still want to buy the game anyways, I would just wait and get it when it's in the Bargain 
 Bin at your local game store for $14.00 or less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 14, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  Yeah this is one thing i did not like about House Of The Dead, No save points, Who likes to start 
 all back over, You get half way through the Game to find out Game Over Then you have to start all 
 over, This is not the Arcades I Am at my home with a Game i Paid for with my own money, How i feel 
 about it my View, On the Game its Fun to play House of the Dead looks good in my view Good Boss 
 Fights Music ok Voice acting is ok for being so old, I mean the Game is Fun and worth 29.99, Some 
 of it is funny to watch controlls work fine the Wii is Great with the Rail Shooters, But next time 
 Sega put in save points no save points Game is a pain, Mars 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
