-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Incredible Hulk
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/theincrediblehulk/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Pedestrians bounce helplessly after being tossed.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Shoddy controls.
 Woeful graphics.
 Laughable voice acting.
 Makes rampaging with Hulk somehow boring.
 Lacks imaginative missions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 16, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.5
Critic Score: 4.4, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 5.1, 209 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Edge of Reality
Genre: Action
Date: Jun 5, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The embarrassing graphics and painful controls in The Incredible Hulk make citywide destruction 
 feel boring. 

  From a blind man's perspective, the Wii version of The Incredible Hulk is a mirror image of its 
 Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 counterparts. You control the giant green monster in a free-roaming, 
 fully destructible version of New York City. The repetitive missions and devil-may-care structure 
 make the transition intact, letting you wreak havoc on the streets if you feel like shirking your 
 duty to save the city. Though the core mechanics are identical, what little fun that could be had 
 by mindlessly terrorizing the people of New York has been lost in translation. The rudimentary 
 graphics and cumbersome controls eradicate even the simple joys of causing massive chaos. By trying 
 to cram the same sandbox experience onto a system with far less power, the Wii version loses what 
 little charm The Incredible Hulk had. This abject mess should be avoided by even the most diehard 
 comic-book fans.  

  The story shows Hulk's evolution from local monster who everyone wants out of their precious city 
 to the lesser-of-two-evils abnormality who saves New York from an even greater threat. Half of 
 the cutscenes are told through static screens featuring just a tape recorder and Edward Norton's 
 tired voice, whereas the other half are poorly rendered cinematics that show barely recognizable 
 versions of the stars from the movie. It's hard to get immersed in this tale of alienation and 
 redemption when the actors sound so disinterested in the proceedings.  

           With such terrible draw distance it's no wonder Hulk is always so angry.      

  The 
 visuals in Hulk are absolutely atrocious. The comically archaic draw-in and pop-up from the other 
 versions are even more pronounced here, hindering not only your visibility but your fun as well. 
 When you climb a building and look at the city beneath you, there is nothing but thick fog engulfing 
 everything. It's often impossible to judge how far you must jump to land on the next building because 
 you can't see it, which saps the fun of bounding around the city. When you're walking at ground 
 level, people and cars will pop into view right in front of you and mysteriously disappear when 
 they leave your sight. There is also a lot of clipping going on. You can toss cars straight through 
 buildings, and you'll see Hulk's arm go clean through the backside of enemies, causing no damage. 
 At other times, you'll reach out to grab an object that lies in front of you and it will vanish 
 right before your eyes.  

  The thriving city that made the other versions fun in short bursts seem to have been overrun by 
 a life-ending plague here. Streets are often completely empty. Where an abundance of cars and people 
 once fled in terror, there are now only a few people and the occasional car lining the streets. 
 The idea of rampaging around a virtual New York City is enticing, but when the population seems 
 to have disappeared, it kills one's desire. It's boring destroying a city if no one even cares. 

  The control scheme has also made the transition to the Wii, but in a severely crippled state. There 
 aren't enough buttons to properly mimic the layout from the other versions, so you'll have to go 
 through some painstaking steps to pull off your full repertoire. For example, sprinting is executed 
 by holding down the B button on the Wii Remote and the Z button on the Nunchuk, a less-than-intuitive 
 scheme. Even more cumbersome are the super moves, which you'll have to use quite often. Here, you'll 
 have to call up the move of your choice (healing, thunderclap, ground slam, or rampage) by scrolling 
 with the directional pad, then frantically shaking the Nunchuk to charge it up, and finally hitting 
 B to unleash it. Trying to pull off one of these techniques in the heat of battle is extremely 
 impractical.  

           All alone in Fog Town.      

  The camera controls are also awful. You can use the C button to center your view. If you hold it, 
 you can lock on to enemies, which you will need to do if you want any sort of accuracy in your 
 throws. However, the lock-on is completely broken. Not only does it take a solid second before 
 it will recognize that an enemy is in your sights, but the game also quickly loses track of foes 
 if you are attacked or if they move too quickly. If you want to freely move your camera, you'll 
 have to hold the minus button and use the pointer. This method is so imprecise that it's hard to 
 even keep up with an injured pedestrian who is slowly limping past your view. Trying to quickly 
 find a fast-moving enemy or a power-up while falling off a building is nearly impossible. And there 
 is no option to use the Classic or GameCube controller. You're stuck with the Wii Remote and Nunchuk 
 combo, and it's clunky and unresponsive.  

  The story missions aren't loaded with variety, but there are some minigames and statistics-based 
 feats to add a surprising amount of replay value if you somehow get sucked in. There are a number 
 of unlockable Hulk skins to strive for, and you can earn more-powerful versions of your moves along 
 the way. It is rather shocking that not only can you knock down famous New York landmarks, but 
 that you're also actually rewarded for doing so. It's darkly satisfying to destroy Stark Tower 
 or the Empire State Building; it's just unfortunate that the city doesn't react when you raze these 
 structures. Hearing Tony Stark shouting an angry threat at the beast that toppled his home would 
 have given some weight to these unforgivable destructions. Strangely, the Wii version doesn't have 
 all of the landmarks from the other versions. For instance, the Bear Stearns Building is physically 
 located in the game, but it isn't listed by name, and you won't be rewarded with a Landmark token 
 when it's torn down. All told, there are 35 landmarks in the Wii version and 50 in the others. 

  The Wii version of The Incredible Hulk is a travesty. What little fun that could be had in the 
 other versions of this game has been destroyed here, only to be replaced with glitchy graphics 
 that won't even let you see the city, unwieldy controls that are neither responsive nor intuitive, 
 and a desolate city that somehow makes destruction boring. Stay far away from this game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Gam3rKidd
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 7, 2009 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Wow... what is this "game"? This "game" is really, really bad. There really is not much to say 
 about this "game" because it is just atrocious, a complete screw up, a "game" that sells for $18.95 
 that you would find at the bottom of a bargain bin at your local Wal-Mart with its other unwanted 
 friends such as "Chicken Shoot" and "Kawasaki Quad Bikes". A "game" tha... anyways you get the 
 picture. This game is an abomination to man-kind and shouldn't even be considered a game. That 
 is why I put the word "game" in quotes because it's called a game but doesn't deserve that title 
 because it is garbage! Now I got that out of my system let's get to the review!
  
  First of all, let's start out with the graphics. There is only one word to describe these graphics: 
 ASS!!!! Look at them - they look like something you would see on the Nintendo 64! It is 64 bit! 
 HOW COULD YOU MAKE A GAME IN 2008 THAT IS 64 BIT!!?!??!?!!!? I don't understand!!!!! It looks like 
 a DS game, but for the DS it is acceptable because that's all the damn thing can handle. Unacceptable... 
 look at some of the games by today's standards. They look so real. The main problem to its lack 
 of graphics is the Wii's engine. It can't handle even crappy Xbox 360 graphics. The graphics for 
 this game are unappealing to the eye and are so dull and grey and it looks like there's fog everywhere 
 you look (check the screenshots for yourself) . The game doesn't even look finished. That's how 
 bad these graphics are.
  
  Next is the gameplay: It's pretty boring. All you do is go around a dull-looking New York City 
 smashing taxis and police cars. That's it. BORING!!!!!!!!!
  
  Finally there's the controls. They're really akward. First of all, the game doesn't use any of 
 the Wii's motion-sensitive controls so that's a rip-off. So there's just controls using buttons 
 and they're kind of weird. To run, you have to hold Z+B while using the joystick to run and sometimes 
 the Hulk will punch the air before he starts running because Z and B are the punching buttons. 
 If you press down on the D-Pad allows the Hulk to pick up items such as cars and people. Normally 
 on the Wii, when you move the cursor out of the dead-zone of the screen, the camera moves but in 
 this game, you have to hold the (-) button while moving the cursor to move the camera which can 
 get hard for some people to get used to. Basically, this game used no Wii motion-sensitive controls 
 so they're forced to result to akward button combinations to play the game.
  
  To end this review, all I have to say is that this game doesn't even deserve a 1/10. No, that's 
 too generous. If I could I would rate this game -6 BILLION/10.
  
  ... This isn't part of the review but this is not a joke. My neighbour actually thinks this game 
 is better than Super Mario Galaxy. Remember: I'm NOT joking! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokemonaces
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Well this game has a lot of fun but sometimes extremely annoying story missions like protect or 
 babysit a specific person or object. The game is rather fun though when you finish it oh and i 
 have a question, are you ab; e to get the hulk buster iron man costume on the Wii? Please comment 
 the answer if you know the answer. This game also has a lot of unusual characters like the ironclad 
 or the gray hulk. The games controls are complicated but you'll get use to the controls. the game 
 modes are kind of boring. Graphics are tear dropping unlike 360's! And the mini games are stupid, 
 i mean darts, whack a mole, cabbie, these mini games are so stupid it bores me to tears! The attacks 
 are ok but the games attack combos is minimal unlike hulk ultimate destruction's, but the new suppers 
 are awesome especially the thunder clap, but in any other terms this game deserves a 90 despite 
 of the poor graphics and game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: david1233
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  Incredible Hulk on the Wii tries, it really does. In attempting to make a worthwhile game, developer 
 Edge Of Reality has taken a decent free-roaming exploration concept and crammed absolutely loads 
 of achievement-based unlockable upgrades to help increase Hulk's smashing power, given you the 
 ability to smash anything you want to pieces and even added voice acting from the movie talent. 
 Sounds great, right?
  
  Sadly, it all falls down soon after the game starts. What's wrong? Try the dismal visuals (the 
 original Spider-Man on the GameCube looked better) , the hideous graphical pop-up that makes trees, 
 people and cars appear less than ten feet in front of you, the backwards AI, the inaccurate ability 
 to lock onto enemies, the awkward camera or the fact that you're wandering around an almost deserted 
 city for starters. 
  
  That it's not as good as Hulk: Ultimate Destruction (also out on GameCube) doesn't help. Sorry, 
 Sega, but your luck with movie licenses just isn't getting any better... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pod81
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 31, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  this game has ragdolls at least story gets boring and the game is fun for a good half hour but 
 after its real sucky all it is is smacking dumb a. i and dumb citezins that never die story SUCKS 
 I AM NOT KIDDING IF U want to play superheros games play spiderman games only like 1,2,3 and ultimate 
 or older hulk games or at least iron man [only really that good on ps3 or die hard fans on other 
 conseles] Even and espesselley the hulk [IF yoU ARE ONE heck OF A HULK FAN] I think this sucks 
 really bad the reason its hard is because the controls are horrible so please unless you really 
 are a die hard fan or reallly want this do not spent money not even rent or buy when its less expensive 
 i am not kiding please trust me im not kiding Do not get this please im trying to help you 
  
  #1 Everything in this game sucks 
  
  #2 Thats it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samus_user
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 11, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  With the hulks crappy design, graphics, and repetetive gameplay (enemies) this game deserves a lot 
 lower than what it got. I mean to say that the best part about the hulk is going around the city 
 and demolishing buildings. There is so much potential in the idea of this game but the way this 
 idea was presented was completeley bad... ugh! I mean the game itself was a good idea but it just 
 didn't turn out as I hoped. Going around the city protecting this dude from onslaught after onslaught 
 of giant robot thingies that don't go away even after you throw them off the top of the empire 
 state building gets pretty boring after the fist five missions. They story was confusing and hard 
 to follow. And the proffesional voice acting was very bad. They bruce dude sounded very monotonish 
 and highly deppressed. You couldn't tell what he was saying half the time. All in all this game 
 is not worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pikazilla
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Hulk's previous game, Ultimate Destruction, was an instant hit for all three major game systems. 
 This game, completely ruins the Hulk's videogame series for life.
  
  Where to begin...
  Wii version is the worst, and the other systems are not much different except for graphics. You 
 have basic attacks, punches, kicks and bodyslams, that's it. Enemies are easier to beat and the 
 bosses are the only challenge, but they are still easy. Wii version is too foggy and is almost 
 always at day time, even if the story says you are fighting Abomination at midnight. Also, some 
 movie spoilers too. Destroying buildings sound fun? Well, it sucks in this game.
  
  DON'T BUY THIS GAME, not even for your life. Hulk fans, videogame fans, Marvel fans, you will hate 
 this waste of money.
  
  Hulk likes to smash, but I would like to kill the developers of this game. Is Sega messing up again, 
 or has Marvel lost their touch. It must be both... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pilot872
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 1, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  I think I speak for everyone when I say that this game just completly sucks! I mean come on! For 
 the WII you think they could have given the game a little better graphics because the graphics 
 on this game are terrible along with everything else in it. The controls are terribly hard to use. 
 And the sound affects for this game are the worst I've heard in years, this game practically competes 
 with games on the PS1! So basically I'm trying to say that if you buy this game you have just made 
 one of the biggest mistakes you will ever make in your life. Although this game can be somewhat 
 enjoyable for little kids. So your better off spending your money on better things. . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaphack
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  It seems not many people like this game. But I'm one the few who really enjoyed it. So let's get 
 right down to the review.
  
  GRAPHICS: This is what I hate, because when a game gets released across all systems, the Wii ALWAYS 
 gets the 6th-gen PS2 graphics. And then everyone starts to think the Wii sucks.
  
  The graphics aren't bad, they obviously aren't the 360 or PS3 graphics but they're really not bad, 
 really the only time you'd know it had PS2 graphics is during actual gameplay because the cut scene 
 graphics look great.
  
  SOUND: Not much music in this game, but the little music that plays definitely suits a game where 
 Hulk is the main character. What is exclusive to the Wii in this game is when you pick up someone 
 you can hear them screaming in agony through the Wii Remote, its quite hilarious to hear someone 
 yelling "crushing... my... bones" coming from your hand, its like your doing it yourself!
  
  CONTROLS: Most of the control scheme for the game seems to be chosen well, but the camera controls 
 are just terrible, especially while fighting. Also when diagrams, such as telling you to shake 
 the Wii remote, come up on the screen, the controls rarely respond correctly.
  
  Comments: I think I know why everyone is rating this game so lowly, they're comparing it to Ultimate 
 Destruction. You see Ultimate Destruction was a trillion times better (except for the fact that 
 you can only destroy one kind of building) But Ultimate Destruction was developed by Radical Entertainment, 
 a CANADIAN company. The Incredible Hulk (2008) was developed by Edge of Reality, an AMERICAN company. 
 I'll let you fill in the blanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcianxx
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Hulk is not a bad game and I do not understand the review given to it by GS. The graphics are actually 
 pretty good and I have had not problem with framerate slowing during gameplay. Yes, the controls 
 could use some refinement, the overuse of the B button is a bit much when they could have put in 
 a few more combo moves that are easier to use. The short of it is that you get to run around NYC 
 destroying whatever you want from the innocent pedestrians who you might just want to smash around 
 to military / enclave enemies and challenging other superheroes. A pretty good game if you like 
 the hulk and want to have a lot of freeplay options. Much better than iron man which i find much 
 too linear. I have had fun playing this game and look forward to playing it some more. I would 
 give this game a shot and not rely soley on GS rating to make your decision. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R_Evil_4
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 19, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the worst games on the Wii. it has horrible graphics, a stupid story and lame... 
 well every thing else. As you guessed from the name your the hulk, your in N. Y, you are pitted 
 against other monsters through out the game. The fighting would have been alright but the lock 
 on system sucks, and if you don't lock on then it's almost impossible to hit anything. The makers 
 game some how even messed up the rampaging. There is almost no one on the streets of N. Y and that 
 ruins the chances of taking pleasure in killing hordes of people. just like every movie game before 
 it the hulk is no different bad. The people that made this game should be ashamed to put this game 
 on store shelves and make you pay full price. As I've said before you can't pay me enough to play 
 this game.
  
  
  
  By: Daniel Currie 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spelly-93
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Marvel did a great job with game. Its so realistic. The graphics actually look better than MGS4 
 cinamatics. The gameplay is awesome. Veryfun. You can destroy people with your hands. And throw 
 cars. SOOO AWSOME !!!!
  
  In MGS4 and COD4 all you can do is shoot people. But the hulk can do "Hulk SMash".. It so epic..... 
 The transformation is unbelievable. The story is very good too. I mean the MGS4 story is trash, 
 it dosent even make sense. This however is action packed.....
  
  The city is very realistic. You can see through the windows. IN GTA4 you cant even go inside a 
 building. IN GTA4 you have to drive by. In here you can just jump on ur enemy. 
  
  The bad thing is that this game has no bad things to talk about.
  It was just plain AWESOME
 
  I recommend this game to everyone. A true hardcore gamer will get this game definitely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lordconcon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  *Good graphics for the Wii
  *The AI has some intelligence which makes him funner to challenge.
  *There are some mini-games 
 that provide some enjoyment.
  *The secret characters or "skins" are a great thing to aim for.
  *You can destroy any building 
 (finally) .
  *The open world and somewhat detailed environment.
  *The story is mixed with the movie and the comic for more gameplay.
  *The fighting is very well 
 done most of the time.
  *The upgrades are fun and some can be very useful.
  
  The Bad:
  *The camera is somewhat annoying.
  *Use with the wiimote is frusterating at times.
  *Some of 
 the boss battles are extreamely aggrevating due to the fact that you don't know how to hurt them.
 
  *The Wii has no exclusives.
  *Some missions can be hard at times.
  *You can't do much in the game if you don't play the story. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
