-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Legend of Spyro: Dawn of the Dragon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/spyrodawnofthedragon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gorgeous visuals and a thrilling score create a vivid fantasy world.
 Convenient local co-op lets second player drop in or out at any time.
 Good variety of elemental powers at your disposal.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Combat is uninteresting and sometimes tedious.
 Unfocused level design can lead to aimless wandering.
 When playing solo, the AI-controlled teammate can sometimes get stuck.
 Control of the camera is too limited.
 Story borrows too much inspiration from elsewhere.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  3, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 6.5, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 71 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Etranges Libellule
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Oct 21, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Lackluster gameplay makes this a disappointing conclusion to the Legend of Spyro series. 

  When he first debuted on the scene just over 10 years ago, Spyro the lovable purple dragon starred 
 in a series of truly excellent platformers on the original PlayStation. But oh, how the fire-breathing 
 have fallen. The first two entries in his current trilogy, The Legend of Spyro, have been marked 
 by mediocrity, and sadly, the conclusion follows suit. It's an unfocused, uninteresting game that, 
 despite its flying heroes, never manages to get off the ground.  

           You'll battle a massive fire-breathing balrog. Err... golem.      

  Picking up where 
 The Eternal Night left off, Dawn of the Dragon concludes the Legend of Spyro series with an extremely 
 run-of-the-mill tale of our purple hero, accompanied by nemesis-turned-ally Cynder, taking on the 
 Dark Master Malefor. It all makes for a typical wrap-up to a fantasy trilogy. Dawn of the Dragon 
 certainly looks like the climactic chapter of an epic fantasy trilogy, too, and not just any epic 
 fantasy trilogy. Specifically, it takes more than a little visual inspiration from the  Lord of 
 the Rings  films. This influence is frequent and undeniable, from the initial confrontation with 
 a massive fire-breathing demon of the deep, to a desperate battle against the siege towers of tremendous 
 armies from the ramparts of a pristine city, to the foray into a scorched land dominated by a volcano 
 above which the Dark Master resides. And as Spyro, Elijah Wood has some distinctly Frodo-esque 
 lines of dialogue. While not very original, the visual design, coupled with a gorgeous musical 
 score, is effective at creating the sense that the fate of the world hangs in the balance of Spyro's 
 struggle. Unfortunately, the gameplay falls well short of matching that level of excitement.  

 
  The combat in Dawn of the Dragon has you employing a combination of weak and strong melee attacks, 
 an assortment of elemental powers, and the ability to grab smaller enemies in your adorable little 
 jaws and thrash them around. You can also guard against attacks and perform a quick roll to evade 
 them. Despite this variety of moves at your disposal, the combat is never interesting. In the earlier 
 parts of the game, you'll often fight so many weak enemies at once that the screen becomes a cluster 
 of chaos, making it all but impossible to tell when an attack is incoming. Not that you need to 
 be defensive, though, since pure button mashing is enough to defeat these foes. Later on, you'll 
 frequently be waylaid by groups of larger, more powerful enemies. Much too frequently, in fact. 
 These enemies are dull and require no particular skill to defeat, but they can take a long time 
 to wear down, and they kill the game's momentum and make the last few chapters feel like an uphill 
 slog.  

  The few boss battles look monumental, but they're simple and unimaginative. You avoid the same 
 obvious patterns and exploit the same weaknesses over and over again. And worst of all, there are 
 some so-called elite enemies scattered throughout the game who are wickedly frustrating. When you 
 encounter one for the first time, you're given no clue how to defeat him, and initially, they may 
 seem downright impossible. Even when, through trial and error, you stumble on the trick to beating 
 them, they do so much damage that sometimes one slipup on your part can cost you your life. It's 
 true that fighting elites is always optional, but you'll often earn some useful rewards for defeating 
 them, such as pieces of armor that give Spyro's or Cynder's abilities a bonus, providing an incentive 
 to just suck up the frustration and deal with the chore of fighting them. Lousy content is lousy 
 content, optional or not, and the elites may frustrate and alienate some of the younger players 
 to whom the game appeals.  

           Combat is uninteresting despite the range of abilities at your disposal.      

  Both 
 Spyro and Cynder have four elemental powers, and some of them are fun to use for a little while: 
 Cynder's wind power lets you pick up an enemy and fling him into his companions, and Spyro's electricity 
 power can leave some foes stunned and open to attack for a moment. And powering up these abilities 
 over the course of the game can be satisfying. Spyro's fire-breathing ability looks pretty powerful 
 to begin with, but after you use the experience points you've earned to purchase its final upgrade, 
 it's far more impressive. However, because the combat in which you employ these powers is never 
 involving, the powers themselves are redundant, and switching them up isn't enough to keep things 
 interesting.  

  Dawn of the Dragon departs from the earlier games in the series by letting you take flight at any 
 time. A few presses of the jump button have you take to the air, but this new ability doesn't end 
 up having much of an impact on the overall gameplay. It's useful for covering larger distances, 
 but there are always gusts of wind and other mysterious forces that prevent you from exploiting 
 this freedom, so you'll still have to do a fair amount of platforming. The game sometimes tries 
 to do too much with flight. One sequence in particular has you zooming through the cavernous innards 
 of a giant to strike at its crystalline heart, and like so much of the game, it looks thrilling 
 but just isn't much fun to play. The flight controls are fine for gliding gently across the levels, 
 but they lack the precision that a sequence like this calls for.     

  It's a good thing you have a way of getting around faster, though, because the level design is 
 often so unfocused that you'll need to spend a good deal of time wandering and searching for where 
 you're supposed to go next. One level requires you to first find one cave, then another, and then 
 another, and while the area isn't enormous, it's large enough that you can spend quite a while 
 looking until you stumble upon your next objective. (According to the manual, your dragonfly companion, 
 Sparx, "is always willing to help Spyro and Cynder find their way when they get lost." No greater 
 lie has ever been told.) Later, you'll soar all over the huge body of the aforementioned giant 
 looking for a number of small crystals you need to destroy, and again, you may spend a good bit 
 of time looking all over the place until you find your next objective. A bit of open-ended exploration 
 can be fun, but levels like these could have benefited from the occasional nudge in the right direction. 

  Spyro and Cynder can never get too far apart, thanks to a cursed magical chain that binds them 
 together. If you're playing alone, you can switch between them on the fly. The AI-controlled character 
 isn't very useful in combat but fortunately doesn't take any damage either, so you don't need to 
 worry about protecting your companion. And in most cases, the AI character does a fine job of following 
 you around, but there are a few things, like ramps, that the character sometimes gets stuck on 
 and seems incapable of handling, forcing you to switch back and forth to get both dragons into 
 a position from which you can advance freely again. You're better off if you can convince a friend 
 to join you. The ability to have a second player drop in or out of local co-op at any time is convenient, 
 though it's too bad none of the versions offer support for online cooperative play.  

           Many of the environments are breathtaking.      

  On the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 
 3, Dawn of the Dragon is gorgeous. From the picture-perfect vistas of green grass and rushing rivers 
 under a pristine sky to the foreboding burned lands of the Dark Master Malefor, the vibrant colors 
 and detailed environments create a compelling world that will appeal to younger players and older 
 fantasy fans alike. As you'd expect, the Wii version isn't quite as impressive, but it's no slouch, 
 though the less captivating visuals, combined with a few awkward motion controls, put it a bit 
 behind the other versions. (Blocking is done by lifting the Nunchuk, for instance, and it's mildly 
 distracting to have to always be mindful of how you're holding it so you don't accidentally stop 
 attacking and start guarding.) In all versions, the camera can be frustrating. There are times 
 when you can rotate it around you any way you please, but more often than not, you can only inch 
 it a bit in one direction or the other, which is very limiting and prevents you from getting a 
 good sense of your surroundings.  

  The excellent score, with its urgent, rousing choral sections and lush orchestrations, creates 
 an emotional pull that, unfortunately, the gameplay doesn't warrant or support. As Spyro, Elijah 
 Wood is a good fit, at least in part because of his familiarity as Frodo and the similarities between 
 that unlikely hero's quest and this one's. Christina Ricci is fine but underused as Cynder; likewise 
 for Gary Oldman as the wise Ignitus. As Malefor, Mark Hamill's voice is processed through so many 
 filters to make it sound supernaturally booming and evil that they may as well have gotten Pee-Wee 
 Herman to play the part for all the difference it makes. Wayne Brady, as Sparx, is forced to utter 
 such painfully unfunny asides that you'll want to reach right into the screen and swat him yourself. 

  If you've already trudged your way through the first two Legend of Spyro games, you may want to 
 play this one as well, just to see how it all ends. It will take most players around 10 hours to 
 finish Dawn of the Dragon. But while you can sense the visuals and music straining to create a 
 mood of epic fantasy excitement, it's just not enough. This game isn't good enough to redeem the 
 series or to be a compelling stand-alone experience, so if you've avoided the previous entries, 
 there's no need to jump in here.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: waZelda
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 12, 2009 8:21 am PT
Review:  Spyro Dawn of the Dragon is a singleplayer/cooperative game where you play as Spyro the young dragon 
 and his friend Cynder. The story might at first be a little hard to get into if you, like me, haven't 
 played any of the earlier game. The story begins when you are freed from a crystal. You escape 
 from wherever you are, but when you go, Spyro and Cynder are tied together by a magic chain. You 
 need to get back to the city of the dragons where war is raging.
  
  The story in Dawn of the Dragon consists of cut-scenes where the characters are filmed close-up. 
 The cut-scenes can be long, but they are skippable. The story is fairly mediocre, and when you 
 only get fragments of the back-story, it is not that enjoyable. The graphics are also pretty mediocre 
 for artistic design. It has its charm, but one thing the team failed at, was the expressions. When 
 a dragon named Ignitus talkes, he might look happy even though his voice is gravely serious. And 
 Spyro's expression always makes him look stupid. That he looks so silly is sad, because it overshadows 
 the good voice acting done by Elijah Wood.
  
  Spyro is good at times, but I can't name one single aspect that I think is great. The gameplay 
 is mostly based on combat, which is based on button-mashing, random remote swinging and some elemental 
 attacks. There are some combos, but there is hardly any reason to use them. Combat is repetitive 
 with a lot of the enemies occurring again and again, but with the elemental attacks, it is survivable. 
 The rest of the gameplay is based on flying (you can't fly as freely as you would like, but flying 
 is probably the best part of the game) , climbing branches on walls, and missions like "go get that 
 object and place it there) . Not exactly any puzzles there.
  
  The difficulty is set to very easy most of the time. Some enemies can be hard, but all over the 
 world there are red and green crystals, so you can almost always run away and get some more life 
 and mana before returning to battle. I say almost always, because at one point you suddenly can't 
 any more. At three occasions you can't. The first one is good, because it's challenging, but not 
 impossible. But the second one is where it gets impossible. Suddenly you are up against to real 
 biggies. They are both strong (so strong you can't block their attacks) and have a lot of life. 
 They also have a giant reach, they can jump pretty long and they never flinch when you attack them. 
 You won't stand a chance unless you have your fury meter filled before the battle. But if you have, 
 they will be easy, because in fury mode, you're simply unbeatable. The last one is the final boss 
 fight, which is disappointingly easy. Most of his element attacks are easy to dodge, and when you're 
 using standard attacks on him, he might miss you even though it should be impossible on such a 
 long range. He often drop small crystals. All in all, he's just not that hard.
  
  The game has good music, good voice acting and a plot that should result in an epic story, but 
 it is not as great as it should be. If you're not that perfectionist and you need a game only for 
 the purpose of killing some time (which is why I bought it) , it might be worth it. It will keep 
 you occupied for ten to fifteen hours. However if you want a good game, and you're not a big Spyro 
 fan that can forgive the mediocre quality just like Sonic fans can forgive new Sonic games, then 
 its probably not a game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloudkirby
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 31, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  There is no question this game is epic, but epic is not always good.
  
  Tonight, Cloudkirby flies into the new year with The Legend of Spyro, dawn of the Dragon.
  
 
  Story:
  This is my first venture into Spyro's "Legend" series so if it sounds like I am talking out of 
 my ass, thats why.
  
  Spyro and latest dragon character, Cinder, were frozen in a crystal for 3 years. After they wake 
 up, they find out that the world is at war, and everything has gone to hell in a handbasket. And 
 to top off the "pointless plot devices" cake, they are magically chained together. The rest of 
 the story kinda makes my brain hurt so i'll shut up about it.
  
  The "Legend" series takes Spyro and gives it a Peter Jacksonian overhaul. Spyro is a series that 
 both does and does not deserve it at the same time. It takes place in an epic world, but the original 
 series played like a saturday morning cartoon. Mixed reactions with that aspect.
  
  Gameplay:
  The game works like a dungeon crawler, with platforming sorta mixed in. Whup enemies, 
 platform to next area, Michael Finnagen begin again. This borderlines "Believe it!" in repetitiveness. 
 (Naruto joke) This is sort of remedied by the amount of combo's available to our scaly freinds. 
 Attacks are creative, and the elements are very usefull, but they to get old fast. The game is 
 not as hard as it is annoyingly frustrating. You will die A LOT!!! There are also areas of the 
 game which will eliminate, or at least cripple, your ability to fly, forcing you to use the glitchy 
 platforming they've set up.
  
  The Bad:
  Ready the chainsaw, here comes Cloudkirby. 
  Enemies spam with No mercy, The graphics are low, even for Wii, Its repetitive, level design is 
 decent, but annoying, Levels can take hours to complete, puzzles in the game are so hard and often 
 take twenty looks at the scene before you even get a clue at what you are looking at, Its repetitive 
 combo's use shakes, so pulling them off is trial-and-error, and Spyro can only fly a few feet above 
 the ground, so thats useless.
  
  So Cloudkirby, you flame throwing genius, is this a good game?
  Meh... good, but only worth renting, 
 if you are a big Spyro fan, or actually watched all three "Lord of the Rings" Movies. I used to 
 like Spyro, it was a great platformer, but he has gone the way of Sonic, Crash, and many other 
 beloved franchises.
  
  Have a Freakin' A New year ev'body 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DIEHARD117
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 13, 2008 5:31 am PT
Review:  alright the spyro's legacy goes like this. spyro the dragon i give it a 8 in 1998. spyro riptos 
 rage 9.7 in 1999 . spyro year of the dragon 9.5 in 2000 . spyro enter the dragon fly 7 in 2002 
 .spyro a hero's tail 5.9 in 2004 . spyro a new beginning 4.5 in 2006 . (do you see where im going 
 with this) spyro the eternal night 3.5 in 2007 . and now spyro dawn of the dragon 4.5 in 2008 . 
 did you see what happened the amazing was completely murdered/shot/raped. and this game just proves 
 that after enter the dragon fly they were just selling parts. but i have to admit they have always 
 done a varry good job on graphics/controls/characters. but spyro is to good for this $*%! i mean 
 by now they must be loosing money. and this is the same old gig they keep killing, i mean sure 
 it gets changed up a lil but mostly the same ability's same crappy story line same every thing 
 and if thats not bad enough lets throw in some stupid mlty player. mlty plyr would be amazing if 
 they had done this in the first bad spyro (enter the dragon fly) then it would have been a lil 
 better but still im vary vary vary disappointed in this last seres and by that i mean spyro123 
 are alone and spyro4567 the bad vary vary bad but what ever i gave my share so idk if ull like 
 it or not that u have to do for your self. but if ur new to spyro take a look at riptos rage cuz 
 itll keep u playing for hours and hours. so PEACE! @_@ \/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ATL14
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 4:27 pm PT
Review:  EDITED
  
  Once again, Spyro's back and 10 years in the running (already? wow.) . DotD does have problems, 
 but it doesn't make it terrible. Here's what I say:
  Spyro wakes up 3 years after the events of The Eternal Night, only to find that the land has been 
 overrun by Malefor. Gameplay is nothing really special, but power ups and fury can be a life saver. 
 Combat happens too often and lasts way too long. Enemies hit detection gives them an unfair advantage 
 because you get hit before you can realize they are going to hit you, especially with bigger enemies. 
 When you have less than half of your health and your about to get hit by a large enemy, you're 
 screwed. Story is written very well, and i only saw like one familiar thing in it. So what? Controls 
 handle well on the Wii, even flying is easy to manuver, though you can't abuse it but that i can 
 understand, and falling to your death does not exist in this game (which is a good thing) . Most 
 reaction commands require shaking the Wiimote and the nun-chuck, problem is that sometimes it can 
 get you tired. Great choices were made for the voice acting. Elijah Wood fits Spyro perfectly. 
 Christina Ricci was really suitable for Cynder, though there were some holes in some parts. Gary 
 Oldman still fits as Ignitus. One complain i have about the voice acting is Wayne Brady was a bad 
 choice to play Sparx. Now that I listened to the soundtrack a little more, i gotta say, it's some 
 of the best orchestral
  work I have ever heard, and Rebecca Kneubuhl and Gabriel Mann's "Guide you home" is a very, very 
 beautiful song ^^
  OVERALL: I did get frustrated trying to defeat enemies by the end of the game because of the problems, 
 but i did enjoy DotD and i think its a good game. Spyro fans shouldn't be dissapointed by this 
 game. Casual gamers should enjoy DotD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: free_roamer
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Spyro: Dawn Of The Dragon is a mystery. Beautiful graphics and incredible music suck 
 you in, and then boring but good looking combat ruins the whole thing (the elemental attacks are 
 pretty good though) . The thing that irritates me most about this game is the pretty bad flight 
 control. Flying in this game... is just... wow. All in all, a beautiful game that's totally destroyed 
 by two major flaws. If you're looking for a game where all you want is to play as a fire breathing 
 dragon, then get it. Trust me, if this game had good flight control and an actual aiming reticle, 
 it would be much better, but I suggest you rent it. It's not worth the buy. It can be fun sometimes, 
 though, because the boss battles are very cinematic and for some reason the flying only works during 
 combat, which is where is funnest to use but needed the least. It's a mix of good and bad. If you 
 tend to overlook things, you'll either hate or love this game. It's a conundrum. Rent it, or regret 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AweWiiGamer1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  Spyro has been on a steady decline ever since A Hero's Tail was released on the PSONE. The series 
 has recieved solid sales, but those games have either hit the peak of mediorcity or plain awfulness. 
 Has Spyro got it back in Dawn of the Dragon?
  
  Spyro: Dawn of the Dragon is both a combination of great news to report, and something I would 
 not expect. Spyro: Dawn of the Dragon manages to provide a surprsingly engaging, dramatic, deeper 
 and more darker conclusion to the Spyro series, as well as having a surprsingly solid gameplay 
 hook that makes the game fun and inspired. The great news to report overall is that Spyro is back, 
 and in fighting shape.
  
  At the beginning of the game, Spyro, Sparx and Cynder wake up in the future. Spyro and Cynder team 
 up whilst they try and stop the evil spirit: Malefor, the Dark Master who is plauging Dragon World 
 with a shrouding darkness. It's up to Spyro and Cynder to save Dragon World. Spyro gains more responsibilty, 
 and gorws up to be a more mature, concerned dragon. What will surprise anybody who plays Dawn of 
 the Dragon is the unexpected level of depth that has gone in the story of Dawn of the Dragon. This 
 storyline of Dawn is both escapist and fancy free as all the Spyro tales have been, but this Spyro 
 story raises the poigant themes and issues of trust, self-confidence, sacrifice and teamwork. The 
 depth of the story in Spyro most of the time does not go unoticed as we see more to Spyro as we 
 never have before. Despite it is momentarily told through some hammy cutscenes, the storys presentation 
 is more than passable, with highly emotive and powerful scriptwork.
  
  The core gameplay of Spyro: Dawn of the Dragon contains a variety of different styles. There is 
 free fly mode, where you can fly Spyro freely in any location, and free drop-in drop-out multiplayer 
 mode, and general boss combat. There is surprisingly a lot of variety to experience in Dawn of 
 the Dragon, and ultimately the replay value in Dawn of the Dragon is strong. The flying sequences 
 are the pinnacle of the gameplay's most enjoyable peices. The flying segements are incredibly freeing, 
 and thanks to the sharp sensitivity of the Wii's controls, truly gives you the calming sensibilties 
 of being a dragon. The 2 player co op modes add a lot of dimension to the game, and the enviornments 
 are all incredibly fun to explore with 2 players.
  
  The soundtrack in Dawn of the Dragon is quite simply breathtaking. It's big bracing ochestral score 
 adds a huge cinematic tone towards the game, and ultimately adds atmosphere to the Spyro franchise.
 
  
  Despite what a great game Spyro: Dawn of the Dragon is, there are flaws which do bring this gem 
 down. Graphically, Dawn of the Dragon mostly looks nice, but some character models and articheture 
 designs look blocky. The controls in Dawn of the Dragon most of the time work fine, but the chain 
 attcaks with Spyro and Cynder can be a little fustrating. Spyro: Dawn of the Dragon can get a little 
 repettive on the mission side, but these are generally small complaints.
  
  Overall, Spyro is back and better than ever in Spyro: Dawn of the Dragon. Thanks to a highly engaging 
 deep story, replay value and sky high production values, Spyro is back as the dragon we all know 
 and love.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsxMeUP_basic
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 7, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  I actually feel bad for Gary Oldman, by far my favorite actor. Like Hollywood movies, video game 
 projects sometimes generate enough buzz to assemble an all-star cast, only to fall apart in the 
 final outcome. Such is the case with the Legend of Spyro Trilogy. It started out with promising 
 verve when Etranges Libellules picked up the franchise and engrossed our favorite purple dragon 
 in an epic tale. The first two games were somewhat average but they built the story up for an epic 
 ending, and though Dawn of the Dragon wraps things up nicely story-wise, gameplay and levels feel 
 rushed and uninspired. Like previous titles, Spyro again fails to leap into the horizon of fantasy 
 by offering us a mundane title in a pretty wrapper. The all-star cast did their part but the game's 
 designers seem to have run out of flame where it mattered.
  
  THE LORD OF THE CRYSTALS: THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE CRYSTAL
  
  The game picks up three years after 
 the events of The Eternal Night when Spyro, Cynder and Sparx froze in crystal to survive a crumbling 
 Mount Doom, err I mean Mountain of Malefor. The dragons are awakened by an unnamed enemy and chained 
 together with a magical green snake. Action starts with both dragons forced to fight a giant Golem 
 in an underground ruin that looks like Tolkien's Khazad-dum. While escaping they meet Hunter of 
 Avalar, a cat-like ranger sent by Spyro's mentor, Ignitus. Our young dragons learn that a war against 
 Malefor, the Dark Master, has been raging for the last three years so they head to a besieged Dragon 
 City of Warfang. The game's story borrows heavily from The Lord of the Rings series with an epic 
 tale involving familiar-looking faces (Hunter is a clearly the game's Faramir/Aragorn) fighting 
 an army of evil lead by an ominous Lord. Cynder and Spyro witness a massive battle that includes 
 siege towers charging the ancient capital city of Warfang and a giant monster called The Destroyer 
 that holds a striking resemblance to the fire demon, Balrog, from The Fellowship of the Ring. Creatures 
 of various species forge an alliance to defeat a threat whose only goal is to destroy the world. 
 
  
  Both dragons must now work together to defend their land against a spreading evil. Players can 
 fly at will for the first time in the Spyro franchise. The game also features a co-op mode, both 
 in single and multiplayer. In solo mode players can switch between characters to advance in a game 
 that mainly focuses on puzzle-solving. Everything looks set for a major hit, but unfortunately 
 that is not to be. Previous games were criticized for being too difficult for children and too 
 linear for adults. Sadly, it's still true. The game is far from the masterpiece it deserves to 
 be. 
  
  
  LINEAR, UNINSPIRED AND BORING, BUT A NICE STORY
  
  Production during gameplay is pretty much left in the parking lot. You can't talk or interact with 
 friendly characters during the game. Moments where you would normally expect supporting characters 
 to interact with the two dragons are always silent. After cutscenes your friends just stand there 
 like tree stumps, waiting for the dragons to finish an objective.
  
  Outdoor levels are rather poorly designed. None of them give the impression they are part of a 
 "real" world. This is mainly due to blocky and artificial layouts. Forests and landscapes look 
 like man-made mazes or arenas. All levels are man-made, obviously, but good ones don't give that 
 impression - they have an organic flow. It's hard to convey that feeling when the same giant boulders 
 or trees are blocking strategic locations for the sake of creating artificial paths, which is the 
 case in Dawn of the Dragon. 
  
  Cities are basically large square areas surrounded by walls and blocking volumes. After having 
 collided with numerous invisible barriers blocking what look like areas you should be able to access, 
 players will be conditioned to mistrust the very maps they play in, expecting force fields at every 
 turn. Mistrusting the game you play is not a good thing. If that wasn't enough, certain meshes 
 float in mid-air because of careless placement and many surfaces are oversaturated with lighting. 
 
  
  Spyro and Cynder perform various missions throughout the game, which only compound the bad level 
 designs. Stages are created around the tasks our two protagonists have to solve. This isn't much 
 of a problem in underground areas specifically designed to be giant puzzles, but in outside levels 
 this is a negative. For instance, at one point Spyro and Cynder must bring a raft to an injured 
 character. To do so, players must first get a key from a hermit living in a cave, then use the 
 key to open a door to a room located at the base of a mountain in another part of the map. The 
 room's sole purpose is to contain trigger stones, which for some reason the hermit has a key for. 
 The stones are used to unlock an ugly raft that happens to be hanging on a platform in the middle 
 of nowhere by a river. And it should be noted that the hermit has no apparent relation to the raft... 
 Everything feels tacked on and manufactured. 
  
  
  HERE'S YOUR PUZZLE, NOW FIND THE PIECES
  
  Controls are simple on the ground, decent enough 
 in the air but atrocious while climbing walls. Since the dragons are linked by a magical chain, 
 failing to attach to a surface or running along a wall will lead to both characters falling. And 
 fall they will often. Sometimes the dragons won't connect to a surface even though timing and 
 positioning was spot on, making a large part of the game a living, fire-breathing hell. 
  
  Both characters have to be used in tandem. The magical chain does add some depth to gameplay but 
 Etranges Libellules unfortunately didn't use its full potential. Puzzles are usually easy to figure 
 out. The only instances they give players a hard time is when puzzle elements are not obvious or 
 visible. This reviewer spent a good hour running around helplessly in a level that involves activating 
 four dragon statues, merely because a switch Spyro has to flip with his lightning skill wasn't 
 properly highlighted as a piece of the puzzle (it looks like some decoration) . The camera usually 
 gives us a narrow view of our surroundings. Platforms that need to be accessed are often out of 
 view so players progress with tunnel vision, despite the ability to soar. This is especially true 
 while climbing walls.
  
  For the most part mission scenarios are fairly entertaining. The dragons will assist other characters, 
 carry buckets of water and be tasked with opening or closing various gates. Both characters have 
 unique element skills, which are used to unlock or reach various parts of the game. Spyro can burn 
 plant obstacles and break down some surfaces with his Earth element, and Cynder can use her Shadow 
 skill to pass under specific gates. More time will be spent figuring out puzzles than fighting, 
 which is a good thing because combat is rather shallow. 
  
  Fights often pit our friendly lizards against multiple opponents so things can get a little chaotic. 
 Spyro and Cynder have a strong and weak attack, four unique element spells and a grab. Grabs can 
 swing enemies around and lift them in the air leaving them vulnerable to numerous scratches from 
 the dragon's hind legs (like when a cat play-fights with your hand while on his back) . Playing 
 "fairly" involves all the aforementioned skills and usually means getting your scaly hind knocked 
 around. Playing "unfairly" means relying on a single element skill: Cynder's Shadow element, more 
 specifically the shadow "uppercut" move. The latter clears anybody in Cynder's vicinity and turns 
 surviving enemies against each other. It's so effective players will seldom use anything else. 
 Not that you will care; enemies are as dumb as they look (and they are all pretty ugly) so fighting 
 is just sometime you want out of the way. Enemies will usually appear out of thin air and block 
 all means of escaping until your pair takes care of them. 
  
  Experience points, used to upgrade element skills, are gained by killing enemies, breaking blue 
 "experience" crystals and destroying various objects left behind by whoever lived in the unpopulated 
 levels. Fighting enemies the hard way (by using attacks and grabs) gives more point than using 
 elements, but even if players strictly rely on magic they will max out all their skills three-thirds 
 into the game. Players can also find armor that gives protection and increases various attributes. 
 Health and magic bars are upgraded by finding egg-shaped crystals. 
  
  Bonus material in the form of concept art is unlocked after reaching milestones during the game. 
 The material in question is well done. Most games have static galleries but Etranges Libellules 
 took the time to create beautiful montages with music. Speaking of music, Dawn of the Dragons has 
 an epic score. A few memorable tunes will leave you humming. Along with great voice acting courtesy 
 of Elijah Wood (Spyro) , Christina Ricci (Cynder) , Gary Oldman (Ignitus) and Mark "Luke Skywalker" 
 Hamill, to name a few, as well as an original end-song, it is appears designers took at least some 
 parts of the game seriously. Too bad they didn't put as much effort into level designs and gameplay. 
 
  
  
  SUMMARY
  
  The Legend of Spyro: Dawn of the Dragon finishes the Trilogy with a rather disappointingly rushed 
 third installment. Levels are unprofessional and puzzles are either too easy or made needlessly 
 complicated because of gameplay issues. So what can Spyro do to improve future games? For starters, 
 it should improve its level designs. They suck. They have nice effects and pretty concept art, 
 but in practice they are boring. Secondly, Spyro should focus on "gamefun" not "gameplay"  it's 
 the only way it can appeal to both the young and old. Lego games hit the nail on the head with 
 perfect gamefun, where getting as much out of levels is what matters, not simply completing them. 
 But that requires details and good level designs, something the Spyro franchise has yet to master. 
 
  
  We won't give up on the little dragon. He's cute and lives in a world most fans of the series want 
 to explore. With the addition of Cynder and Hunter things are bound, nay "deserve", to get better. 
 But Etranges Libellules needs to get their act together during actual production. Nice concept 
 art, good music and great voice-acting won't expand Spyro's world - better levels and gameplay 
 will. The Legend of Spyro: Dawn of the Dragon has a large heart, unfortunately it is stuck inside 
 the body of a firefly. 
  
  
  Graphics 70
  Nice effects but not enough details and unnatural-looking level designs
  
  Gameplay 64
  Too 
 easy if you use Cynder's Shadow element and too hard if you don't. Levels can leave you stumped 
 for a while
  
  Production 72
  Nice cutscenes and story, and some of the best gallery montages you'll see in a while, but the 
 story doesn't convey well in-game
  
  Sound 80
  The stars do a great job and music will leave you humming. Sadly, no need for various sound effects 
 because of the bleak maps
  
  Lasting Appeal 65
  Finishing the game isn't enough to get all the extras but at 12 hours the first time around getting 
 the rest won't stretch things out by much 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Vulpix-
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 28, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay of the game is pretty good once you get use to the controlls. The free-flight system 
 did pretty good job you have to hit the A button twice to enter it.
  The running around with the characters is kind of slow. They'll go a little slower when they pick 
 up heavy objects. That also limits their flight.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound and music could have been much better it sounds like they just used some of the music 
 from a new beginning and the eternal night and tossed them in this game. It seems like they got 
 a little lazy with this part. But the music is still pretty good.
  
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphicss are well done. The characters were well made. The levels were designed well too. 
 They improved a lot from the eternal night and a new beginning. but nothing else can be much said 
 or can it?
  
  
  Overall:
  
  The combat system is still fun to useit doesn't matter what other people say. They did not kill 
 spyro they gave him more moves. Otherwise he will just continue running around smashing into stuff 
 and breathing fire. Unless did what they did in a heroes tail fire, water, electricity, wind, or was 
 something else.
  You also get to play Cynder in this game who uses fear which is a strong move. Poison, wind, and 
 shadow which is neatly designed. I'm not sure if this implies to all versions but the wii version 
 or mine anyway had a few freezing issues seems like they should worked harder lazy insert word 
 here. The ending was pretty good but could have been better. It seems like they're going to continue 
 the series or should have made the ending longer and My Score is a 10.0 everyone else 7.5 or 6.5.
 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
